PXD012350	30735346	Peptidoglycan Metabolite Photoaffinity Reporters Reveal Direct Binding to Intracellular Pattern Recognition Receptors and Arf GTPases. 	Peptidoglycan metabolite photoaffinity reporters reveal direct binding to intracellular pattern recognition receptors and Arf GTPases	HEK293T, MDP, NOD2, gel-based proteomics	The peptidoglycan fragments gamma-d-glutamyl- meso-diaminopimelic acid (iE-DAP) and muramyl-dipeptide (MDP) are microbial-specific metabolites that activate intracellular pattern recognition receptors and stimulate immune signaling pathways. While extensive structure-activity studies have demonstrated that these bacterial cell wall metabolites trigger NOD1- and NOD2-dependent signaling, their direct binding to these innate immune receptors or other proteins in mammalian cells has not been established. To characterize these fundamental microbial metabolite-host interactions, we synthesized a series of peptidoglycan metabolite photoaffinity reporters and evaluated their cross-linking to NOD1 and NOD2 in mammalian cells. We show that active iE-DAP and MDP photoaffinity reporters selectively cross-linked NOD1 and NOD2, respectively, and not their inactive mutants. We also discovered MDP reporter cross-linking to Arf GTPases, which interacted most prominently with GTP-bound Arf6 and coimmunoprecipitated with NOD2 upon MDP stimulation. Notably, MDP binding to NOD2 and Arf6 was abrogated with loss-of-function NOD2 mutants associated with Crohn's disease. Our studies demonstrate peptidoglycan metabolite photoaffinity reporters can capture their cognate immune receptors in cells and reveal unpredicted ligand-induced interactions with other cellular cofactors. These photoaffinity reporters should afford useful tools to discover and characterize other peptidoglycan metabolite-interacting proteins.
PXD012191	30736283	Phosphorylation-Dependent Intra-Domain Interaction of the Cx37 Carboxyl-Terminus Controls Cell Survival. 	Cx37 Phosphorylation and cell cycle regulation	Growth arrest, cell death, differential phosphorylation, gap junction, proliferation	Differential phosphorylation of the carboxyl-terminus of connexin 37 (Cx37-CT) regulates phenotypic switching between cell growth phenotypes (cell death, cell cycle arrest, proliferation). The specific phosphorylation events in the Cx37-CT that are necessary for these growth regulatory effects are currently unknown. Through the combined use of deletion and site specific (de)phospho-mimetic Cx37-CT mutants, our data suggest a phosphorylation-dependent interaction between the mid-tail (aa 273-317) and end-tail (aa 318-333) portions of the Cx37-CT that regulates cell survival. As detected by mass spectrometry, Cx37 was phosphorylated at serines 275, 321, and 328; phosphomimetic mutations of these sites resulted in cell death when expressed in rat insulinoma cells. Alanine substitution at S328, but not at S275 or S321, also triggered cell death. Cx37-S275D uniquely induced the death of only low density, non-contact forming cells, but neither hemichannel open probability nor channel conductance distinguished death-inducing mutants. As channel function is necessary for cell death, together the data suggest that the phosphorylation state of the Cx37-CT controls an intra-domain interaction within the CT that modifies channel function and induces cell death.
PXD006802	30737169	oxSWATH: An integrative method for a comprehensive redox-centered analysis combined with a generic differential proteomics screening. 	OxSWATH applied to the redox characterization of secretomes under oxidative stress conditions	Cysteine oxidation, DJ-1, Differential Alkylation, Redoxomics, SWATH-MS, Secretome	Most of the redox proteomics strategies are focused on the identification and relative quantification of cysteine oxidation without considering the variation in the total levels of the proteins. However, protein synthesis and protein degradation also belong to the regulatory mechanisms of the cells, being therefore important to consider the changes in total protein levels in PTMs-focused analyses, such as cysteine redox characterization. Therefore, a novel integrative approach combining the SWATH-MS method with differential alkylation using a combination of commonly available alkylating reagents (oxSWATH) is presented, by which it is possible to integrate the information regarding relative cysteine oxidation with the analysis of the total protein levels in a cost-effective high-throughput approach. The proposed method was tested using a redox-regulated protein and further applied to a comparative analysis of secretomes obtained from cells cultured under control or oxidative stress conditions to strengthen the importance of considering the overall proteome changes. Using the OxSWATH method it was possible to determine both the relative proportion of reduced and reversible oxidized oxoforms, as well as the total levels of each oxoform by taking into consideration the total levels of the protein. Therefore, using OxSWATH the comparative analyses can be performed at two different levels by considering the relative proportion or the total levels at both peptide and protein level. Moreover, since samples are acquired in SWATH-MS mode, besides the redox centered analysis, a generic differential protein expression analysis can also be performed, allowing a truly comprehensive evaluation of proteomics changes upon the oxidative stimulus. Data are available via ProteomeXchange and SWATHAtlas with the identifiers PXD006802, PXD006802, and PASS01210.
PXD010281	30737390	Chaperone activation and client binding of a 2-cysteine peroxiredoxin. 	Chaperone Activation and Client Binding of a 2-Cysteine Peroxiredoxin	chaperone activation, chaperone-client complex, cross-linking	Many 2-Cys-peroxiredoxins (2-Cys-Prxs) are dual-function proteins, either acting as peroxidases under non-stress conditions or as chaperones during stress. The mechanism by which 2-Cys-Prxs switch functions remains to be defined. Our work focuses on Leishmania infantum mitochondrial 2-Cys-Prx, whose reduced, decameric subpopulation adopts chaperone function during heat shock, an activity that facilitates the transition from insects to warm-blooded host environments. Here, we have solved the cryo-EM structure of mTXNPx in complex with a thermally unfolded client protein, and revealed that the flexible N-termini of mTXNPx form a well-resolved central belt that contacts and encapsulates the unstructured client protein in the center of the decamer ring. In vivo and in vitro cross-linking studies provide further support for these interactions, and demonstrate that mTXNPx decamers undergo temperature-dependent structural rearrangements specifically at the dimer-dimer interfaces. These structural changes appear crucial for exposing chaperone-client binding sites that are buried in the peroxidase-active protein.
PXD009189	30737405	A network of chaperones prevents and detects failures in membrane protein lipid bilayer integration. 	A network of chaperones prevents and detects failures in membrane protein lipid bilayer integration	Connexin, ER membrane complex, chaperone, endoplasmic reticulum, membrane protein, protein degradation, protein folding, protein quality control, topology	A fundamental step in membrane protein biogenesis is their integration into the lipid bilayer with a defined orientation of each transmembrane segment. Despite this, it remains unclear how cells detect and handle failures in this process. Here we show that single point mutations in the membrane protein connexin 32 (Cx32), which cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, can cause failures in membrane integration. This leads to Cx32 transport defects and rapid degradation. Our data show that multiple chaperones detect and remedy this aberrant behavior: the ER-membrane complex (EMC) aids in membrane integration of low-hydrophobicity transmembrane segments. If they fail to integrate, these are recognized by the ER-lumenal chaperone BiP. Ultimately, the E3 ligase gp78 ubiquitinates Cx32 proteins, targeting them for degradation. Thus, cells use a coordinated system of chaperones for the complex task of membrane protein biogenesis, which can be compromised by single point mutations, causing human disease.
PXD004865	30739015	Deacetylation Inhibition Reverses PABPN1-Dependent Muscle Wasting. 	Pabpn1-driven cytoskeletal rearrangement induces muscle wasting	Csrp3, LFQ, Murc, Pabpn1, Pfn1, Progenesis	Reduced poly(A)-binding protein nuclear 1 (PABPN1) levels cause aging-associated muscle wasting. PABPN1 is a multifunctional regulator of mRNA processing. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms causing PABPN1-mediated muscle wasting, we compared the transcriptome with the proteome in mouse muscles expressing short hairpin RNA to PABPN1 (shPab). We found greater variations in the proteome than in mRNA expression profiles. Protein accumulation in the shPab proteome was concomitant with reduced proteasomal activity. Notably, protein acetylation appeared to be decreased in shPab versus control proteomes (63%). Acetylome profiling in shPab muscles revealed prominent peptide deacetylation associated with elevated sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) deacetylase. We show that SIRT1 mRNA levels are controlled by PABPN1 via alternative polyadenylation site utilization. Most importantly, SIRT1 deacetylase inhibition by sirtinol increased PABPN1 levels and reversed muscle wasting. We suggest that perturbation of a multifactorial regulatory loop involving PABPN1 and SIRT1 plays an imperative role in aging-associated muscle wasting. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
PXD009902	30739529	Proteomic characterization of the arsenic response locus in S. cerevisiae. 	Proteomic Analysis of an Arsenic Response Locus	Arsenic, CRISPR, ChAP-MS	Arsenic exposure is a global health problem. Millions of people encounter arsenic through contaminated drinking water, consumption, and inhalation. The arsenic response locus in budding yeast is responsible for the detoxification of arsenic and its removal from the cell. This locus constitutes a conserved pathway ranging from prokaryotes to higher eukaryotes. The goal of this study was to identify how transcription from the arsenic response locus is regulated in an arsenic dependent manner. An affinity enrichment strategy called CRISPR-Chromatin Affinity Purification with Mass Spectrometry (CRISPR-ChAP-MS) was used, which provides for the proteomic characterization of a targeted locus. CRISPR-ChAP-MS was applied to the promoter regions of the activated arsenic response locus and uncovered 40 nuclear-annotated proteins showing enrichment. Functional assays identified the histone acetyltransferase SAGA and the chromatin remodelling complex SWI/SNF to be required for activation of the locus. Furthermore, SAGA and SWI/SNF were both found to specifically organize the chromatin structure at the arsenic response locus for activation of gene transcription. This study provides the first proteomic characterization of an arsenic response locus and key insight into the mechanisms of transcriptional activation that are necessary for detoxification of arsenic from the cell.
PXD011371	30740091	Binding Specificity of Native Odorant-Binding Protein Isoforms Is Driven by Phosphorylation and O-N-Acetylglucosaminylation in the Pig Sus scrofa. 	binding specificity of Native Odorant-Binding Protein isoforms is driven by phosphorylation and O-N-acetylglucosamiylation in the pig (sus scrofa)	CID-nano-LC-MS/MS, Fluorescence spectroscopy, O-GlcNAc, Odorant-Binding Protein, Pheromone, Phosphorylation	Odorant-binding proteins (OBP) are secreted in the nasal mucus at the vicinity of olfactory receptors (ORs). They act, at least, as an interface between hydrophobic and volatile odorant molecules and the hydrophilic medium bathing the ORs. They have also been hypothesized to be part of the molecular coding of odors and pheromones, by forming specific complexes with odorant molecules that could ultimately stimulate ORs to trigger the olfactory transduction cascade. In a previous study, we have evidenced that pig olfactory secretome was composed of numerous olfactory binding protein isoforms, generated by O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation. In addition, we have shown that recombinant OBP (stricto sensu) produced in yeast is made up of a mixture of isoforms that differ in their phosphorylation pattern, which in turn determines binding specificity. Taking advantage of the high amount of OBP secreted by a single animal, we performed a similar study, under exactly the same experimental conditions, on native isoforms isolated from pig, Sus scrofa, nasal tissue. Four fractions were obtained by using strong anion exchange HPLC. Mapping of phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation sites by CID-nanoLC-MS/MS allowed unambiguous localization of phosphosites at S13 and T122 and HexNAc sites at S13 and S19. T112 or T115 could also be phosphorylated. BEMAD analysis suggested extra phosphosites located at S23, S24, S41, S49, S57, S67, and T71. Due to the very low stoichiometry of GlcNAc-peptides and phosphopeptides, these sites were identified on total mixture of OBP isoforms instead of HPLC-purified OBP isoforms. Nevertheless, binding properties of native OBP isoforms to specific ligands in S. scrofa were monitored by fluorescence spectroscopy. Recombinant phosphorylated OBP-Pichia isoforms bind steroids and fatty acids with slight differences. Native isoforms, that are phosphorylated but also O-GlcNAcylated show radically different binding affinities for the same compounds, which strongly suggests that O-GlcNAcylation increases the binding specificity of OBP isoforms. These findings extend the role of O-GlcNAc in regulating the function of proteins involved in many mechanisms of metabolic homeostasis, including extracellular signaling in olfaction. Data is available via ProteomeXChange with identifier PXD011371.
PXD009822	30740542	Life history shapes variation in egg composition in the blue tit Cyanistes caeruleus. 	Life history shapes variation in egg composition in a wild passerine	cyanistes caeruleus, differential allocation	Maternal investment directly shapes early developmental conditions and therefore has long-term fitness consequences for the offspring. In oviparous species prenatal maternal investment is fixed at the time of laying. To ensure the best survival chances for most of their offspring, females must equip their eggs with the resources required to perform well under various circumstances, yet the actual mechanisms remain unknown. Here we describe the blue tit egg albumen and yolk proteomes and evaluate their potential to mediate maternal effects. We show that variation in egg composition (proteins, lipids, carotenoids) primarily depends on laying order and female age. Egg proteomic profiles are mainly driven by laying order, and investment in the egg proteome is functionally biased among eggs. Our results suggest that maternal effects on egg composition result from both passive and active (partly compensatory) mechanisms, and that variation in egg composition creates diverse biochemical environments for embryonic development.
PXD012206	30742075	Structure of the complex I-like molecule NDH of oxygenic photosynthesis. 	Structure of NDH the complex I-like molecule of oxygenic photosynthesis	NAD(P)H dehydrogenase-like complex, bioenergetics, cyclic electron flow, electron cryo-microscopy, membrane protein structure, photosynthesis	Cyclic electron flow around photosystem I (PSI) is a mechanism by which photosynthetic organisms balance the levels of ATP and NADPH necessary for efficient photosynthesis(1,2). NAD(P)H dehydrogenase-like complex (NDH) is a key component of this pathway in most oxygenic photosynthetic organisms(3,4) and is the last large photosynthetic membrane-protein complex for which the structure remains unknown. Related to the respiratory NADH dehydrogenase complex (complex I), NDH transfers electrons originating from PSI to the plastoquinone pool while pumping protons across the thylakoid membrane, thereby increasing the amount of ATP produced per NADP(+) molecule reduced(4,5). NDH possesses 11 of the 14 core complex I subunits, as well as several oxygenic-photosynthesis-specific (OPS) subunits that are conserved from cyanobacteria to plants(3,6). However, the three core complex I subunits that are involved in accepting electrons from NAD(P)H are notably absent in NDH(3,5,6), and it is therefore not clear how NDH acquires and transfers electrons to plastoquinone. It is proposed that the OPS subunits-specifically NdhS-enable NDH to accept electrons from its electron donor, ferredoxin(3-5,7). Here we report a 3.1 Aa structure of the 0.42-MDa NDH complex from the thermophilic cyanobacterium Thermosynechococcus elongatus BP-1, obtained by single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. Our maps reveal the structure and arrangement of the principal OPS subunits in the NDH complex, as well as an unexpected cofactor close to the plastoquinone-binding site in the peripheral arm. The location of the OPS subunits supports a role in electron transfer and defines two potential ferredoxin-binding sites at the apex of the peripheral arm. These results suggest that NDH could possess several electron transfer routes, which would serve to maximize plastoquinone reduction and avoid deleterious off-target chemistry of the semi-plastoquinone radical.
PXD011882	30742093	MicroRNA-dependent regulation of biomechanical genes establishes tissue stiffness homeostasis. 	microRNA-dependent regulation of biomechanical genes establishes tissue stiffness homeostasis	AGO2, HUVEC, homestasis, mechanotransduction, miRNA, stiffness	Vertebrate tissues exhibit mechanical homeostasis, showing stable stiffness and tension over time and recovery after changes in mechanical stress. However, the regulatory pathways that mediate these effects are unknown. A comprehensive identification of Argonaute 2-associated microRNAs and mRNAs in endothelial cells identified a network of 122 microRNA families that target 73 mRNAs encoding cytoskeletal, contractile, adhesive and extracellular matrix (CAM) proteins. The level of these microRNAs increased in cells plated on stiff versus soft substrates, consistent with homeostasis, and suppressed targets via microRNA recognition elements within the 3' untranslated regions of CAM mRNAs. Inhibition of DROSHA or Argonaute 2, or disruption of microRNA recognition elements within individual target mRNAs, such as connective tissue growth factor, induced hyper-adhesive, hyper-contractile phenotypes in endothelial and fibroblast cells in vitro, and increased tissue stiffness, contractility and extracellular matrix deposition in the zebrafish fin fold in vivo. Thus, a network of microRNAs buffers CAM expression to mediate tissue mechanical homeostasis.
PXD011258	30745143	Live Tracking of Inter-organ Communication by Endogenous Exosomes In Vivo. 	MS on EVs from the YSL of 3dpf zebrafish embryos	YSL, endogenous, ex vivo, exosomes, zebrafish	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released by most cell types but providing evidence for their physiological relevance remains challenging due to a lack of appropriate model organisms. Here, we developed an in vivo model to study EV function by expressing CD63-pHluorin in zebrafish embryos. A combination of imaging methods and proteomic analysis allowed us to study biogenesis, composition, transfer, uptake, and fate of individual endogenous EVs. We identified a subpopulation of EVs with exosome features, released in a syntenin-dependent manner from the yolk syncytial layer into the blood circulation. These exosomes are captured, endocytosed, and degraded by patrolling macrophages and endothelial cells in the caudal vein plexus (CVP) in a scavenger receptor- and dynamin-dependent manner. Interference with exosome biogenesis affected CVP growth, suggesting a role in trophic support. Altogether, our work represents a system for studying endogenous EV function in vivo with high spatiotemporal accuracy, demonstrating functional inter-organ communication by exosomes.
PXD010720	30746512	The Foliar Endophyte Phialocephala scopiformis DAOMC 229536 Proteome When Grown on Wood Used as the Sole Carbon Source. 	Characterization of extracellular enzymes involved in natural decomposition of conifer wood	Phialocephala scopiformis, Pinus contorta, extracellula, wood decomposition	The conifer needle endophyte Phialocephala scopiformis DAOMC 229536 was cultivated in medium containing ground Pinus contorta wood as the sole carbon source. Mass spectrometry analyses identified 590 proteins. The expression of extracellular hydrolases and oxidoreductases indicates a capacity to degrade wood. The results clearly demonstrate the latent saprophytic potential of P. scopiformis.
PXD007678	30748050	Multifaceted activity of cytokinin in leaf development shapes its size and structure in Arabidopsis. 	Multifaceted activity of cytokinin at distinct phases of leaf development shapes its size and structure in Arabidopsis thaliana	cytokinin, leaf development, transcriptome	The phytohormone cytokinin has been shown to affect many aspects of plant development ranging from the regulation of the shoot apical meristem to leaf senescence. However, some studies have reported contradictory effects of cytokinin on leaf physiology. Therefore cytokinin treatments cause both chlorosis and increased greening and both lead to decrease or increase in cell size. To elucidate this multifaceted role of cytokinin in leaf development, we have employed a system of temporal controls over the cytokinin pool and investigated the consequences of modulated cytokinin levels in the third leaf of Arabidopsis. We show that, at the cell proliferation phase, cytokinin is needed to maintain cell proliferation by blocking the transition to cell expansion and the onset of photosynthesis. Transcriptome profiling revealed regulation by cytokinin of a gene suite previously shown to affect cell proliferation and expansion and thereby a molecular mechanism by which cytokinin modulates a molecular network underlying the cellular responses. During the cell expansion phase, cytokinin stimulates cell expansion and differentiation. Consequently, a cytokinin excess at the cell expansion phase results in an increased leaf and rosette size fueled by higher cell expansion rate, yielding higher shoot biomass. Proteome profiling revealed the stimulation of primary metabolism by cytokinin, in line with an increased sugar content that is expected to increase turgor pressure, representing the driving force of cell expansion. Therefore, the developmental timing of cytokinin content fluctuations, together with a tight control of primary metabolism, is a key factor mediating transitions from cell proliferation to cell expansion in leaves.
PXD010886	30753577	Extracellular peptide Kratos restricts cell death during vascular development and stress in Arabidopsis. 	Extracellular peptide Kratos restricts cell death during vascular development and stress in Arabidopsis	METACASPASE9, Peptidomics, cell death, extracellular, tracheary element, vascular development	During plant vascular development, xylem tracheary elements (TEs) form water-conducting, empty pipes by genetically regulated cell death. Cell death is prevented from spreading to non-TEs by unidentified intercellular mechanisms, downstream of METACASPASE9 (MC9)-mediated regulation of autophagy in TEs. Here, we identified differentially abundant extracellular peptides in vascular-differentiating wild-type and MC9-down-regulated Arabidopsis cell suspensions. A peptide named Kratos rescued the abnormally high ectopic non-TE death resulting from either MC9 knockout or TE-specific overexpression of the ATG5 autophagy protein during experimentally induced vascular differentiation in Arabidopsis cotyledons. Kratos also reduced cell death following mechanical damage and extracellular ROS production in Arabidopsis leaves. Stress-induced but not vascular non-TE cell death was enhanced by another identified peptide, named Bia. Bia is therefore reminiscent of several known plant cell death-inducing peptides acting as damage-associated molecular patterns. In contrast, Kratos plays a novel extracellular cell survival role in the context of development and during stress response.
PXD011225	30755466	MaxQuant.Live Enables Global Targeting of More Than 25,000 Peptides. 	MaxQuant.Live enables global targeting of more than 25,000 peptides		Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics is often performed in a shotgun format, in which as many peptide precursors as possible are selected from full or MS1 scans so that their fragment spectra can be recorded in MS2 scans. Although achieving great proteome depths, shotgun proteomics cannot guarantee that each precursor will be fragmented in each run. In contrast, targeted proteomics aims to reproducibly and sensitively record a restricted number of precursor/fragment combinations in each run, based on prescheduled mass-to-charge and retention time windows. Here we set out to unify these two concepts by a global targeting approach in which an arbitrary number of precursors of interest are detected in real-time, followed by standard fragmentation or advanced peptide-specific analyses. We made use of a fast application programming interface to a quadrupole Orbitrap instrument and real-time recalibration in mass, retention time and intensity dimensions to predict precursor identity. MaxQuant.Live is freely available (www.maxquant.live) and has a graphical user interface to specify many predefined data acquisition strategies. Acquisition speed is as fast as with the vendor software and the power of our approach is demonstrated with the acquisition of breakdown curves for hundreds of precursors of interest. We also uncover precursors that are not even visible in MS1 scans, using elution time prediction based on the auto-adjusted retention time alone. Finally, we successfully recognized and targeted more than 25,000 peptides in single LC-MS runs. Global targeting combines the advantages of two classical approaches in MS-based proteomics, whereas greatly expanding the analytical toolbox.
PXD007085	30755478	An immunoproteomic approach to characterize the CAR interactome and signalosome. 	An immunoproteomic approach to characterize the CAR interactome and signalosome	Chimeric Antigen Receptors, Interactome, Tonic Signaling	Adoptive transfer of T cells that express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) is an approved immunotherapy that may be curative for some hematological cancers. To better understand the therapeutic mechanism of action, we systematically analyzed CAR signaling in human primary T cells by mass spectrometry. When we compared the interactomes and the signaling pathways activated by distinct CAR-T cells that shared the same antigen-binding domain but differed in their intracellular domains and their in vivo antitumor efficacy, we found that only second-generation CARs induced the expression of a constitutively phosphorylated form of CD3zeta that resembled the endogenous species. This phenomenon was independent of the choice of costimulatory domains, or the hinge/transmembrane region. Rather, it was dependent on the size of the intracellular domains. Moreover, the second-generation design was also associated with stronger phosphorylation of downstream secondary messengers, as evidenced by global phosphoproteome analysis. These results suggest that second-generation CARs can activate additional sources of CD3zeta signaling, and this may contribute to more intense signaling and superior antitumor efficacy that they display compared to third-generation CARs. Moreover, our results provide a deeper understanding of how CARs interact physically and/or functionally with endogenous T cell molecules, which will inform the development of novel optimized immune receptors.
PXD011095	30755508	Repression of Human Papillomavirus Oncogene Expression under Hypoxia Is Mediated by PI3K/mTORC2/AKT Signaling. 	Repression of Human Papillomavirus Oncogene Expression under Hypoxia is Mediated by PI3K/mTORC2/AKT Signaling	HPV, Hypoxia, TMT, quantitative Proteomics	Hypoxia is linked to therapeutic resistance and poor clinical prognosis for many tumor entities, including human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive cancers. Notably, HPV-positive cancer cells can induce a dormant state under hypoxia, characterized by a reversible growth arrest and strong repression of viral E6/E7 oncogene expression, which could contribute to therapy resistance, immune evasion and tumor recurrence. The present work aimed to gain mechanistic insights into the pathway(s) underlying HPV oncogene repression under hypoxia. We show that E6/E7 downregulation is mediated by hypoxia-induced stimulation of AKT signaling. Ablating AKT function in hypoxic HPV-positive cancer cells by using chemical inhibitors efficiently counteracts E6/E7 repression. Isoform-specific activation or downregulation of AKT1 and AKT2 reveals that both AKT isoforms contribute to hypoxic E6/E7 repression and act in a functionally redundant manner. Hypoxic AKT activation and consecutive E6/E7 repression is dependent on the activities of the canonical upstream AKT regulators phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 2 (mTORC2). Hypoxic downregulation of E6/E7 occurs, at least in part, at the transcriptional level. Modulation of E6/E7 expression by the PI3K/mTORC2/AKT cascade is hypoxia specific and not observed in normoxic HPV-positive cancer cells. Quantitative proteome analyses identify additional factors as candidates to be involved in hypoxia-induced activation of the PI3K/mTORC2/AKT signaling cascade and in the AKT-dependent repression of the E6/E7 oncogenes under hypoxia. Collectively, these data uncover a functional key role of the PI3K/mTORC2/AKT signaling cascade for viral oncogene repression in hypoxic HPV-positive cancer cells and provide new insights into the poorly understood cross talk between oncogenic HPVs and their host cells under hypoxia.IMPORTANCE Oncogenic HPV types are major human carcinogens. Under hypoxia, HPV-positive cancer cells can repress the viral E6/E7 oncogenes and induce a reversible growth arrest. This response could contribute to therapy resistance, immune evasion, and tumor recurrence upon reoxygenation. Here, we uncover evidence that HPV oncogene repression is mediated by hypoxia-induced activation of canonical PI3K/mTORC2/AKT signaling. AKT-dependent downregulation of E6/E7 is only observed under hypoxia and occurs, at least in part, at the transcriptional level. Quantitative proteome analyses identify additional factors as candidates to be involved in AKT-dependent E6/E7 repression and/or hypoxic PI3K/mTORC2/AKT activation. These results connect PI3K/mTORC2/AKT signaling with HPV oncogene regulation, providing new mechanistic insights into the cross talk between oncogenic HPVs and their host cells.
PXD009566	30759214	Identification and characterization of cytochrome P450 1232A24 and 1232F1 from Arthrobacter sp. and their role in the metabolic pathway of papaverine. 	Proteomic analysis of the papaverine degrading Arthrobacter sp.	Arthrobacter, Papaverine	Cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450s) play crucial roles in the cell metabolism and provide an unsurpassed diversity of catalysed reactions. Here, we report the identification and biochemical characterization of two P450s from Arthrobacter sp., a Gram-positive organism known to degrade the opium alkaloid papaverine. Combining phylogenetic and genomic analysis suggested physiological roles for P450s in metabolism and revealed potential gene clusters with redox partners facilitating the reconstitution of the P450 activities in vitro. CYP1232F1 catalyses the para demethylation of 3,4-dimethoxyphenylacetic acid to homovanillic acid while CYP1232A24 continues demethylation to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Interestingly, the latter enzyme is also able to perform both demethylation steps with preference for the meta position. The crystal structure of CYP1232A24, which shares only 29% identity to previous published structures of P450s helped to rationalize the preferred demethylation specificity for the meta position and also the broader substrate specificity profile. In addition to the detailed characterization of the two P450s using their physiological redox partners, we report the construction of a highly active whole-cell Escherichia coli biocatalyst expressing CYP1232A24, which formed up to 1.77 g l-1 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Our results revealed the P450s' role in the metabolic pathway of papaverine enabling further investigation and application of these biocatalysts.
PXD009430	30759257	Modulation of the ATM/autophagy pathway by a G-quadruplex ligand tips the balance between senescence and apoptosis in cancer cells. 	Modulation of the ATM / autophagy pathway tips the balance between senescence and apoptosis in response to a quadruplex ligand	G4, antiproliferative agents, apoptosis, autophagy, label-free quantitative proteome analysis., quadruplex ligand, senescence, triarylpyridine	G-quadruplex ligands exert their antiproliferative effects through telomere-dependent and telomere-independent mechanisms, but the inter-relationships among autophagy, cell growth arrest and cell death induced by these ligands remain largely unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that the G-quadruplex ligand 20A causes growth arrest of cancer cells in culture and in a HeLa cell xenografted mouse model. This response is associated with the induction of senescence and apoptosis. Transcriptomic analysis of 20A treated cells reveals a significant functional enrichment of biological pathways related to growth arrest, DNA damage response and the lysosomal pathway. 20A elicits global DNA damage but not telomeric damage and activates the ATM and autophagy pathways. Loss of ATM following 20A treatment inhibits both autophagy and senescence and sensitizes cells to death. Moreover, disruption of autophagy by deletion of two essential autophagy genes ATG5 and ATG7 leads to failure of CHK1 activation by 20A and subsequently increased cell death. Our results, therefore, identify the activation of ATM by 20A as a critical player in the balance between senescence and apoptosis and autophagy as one of the key mediators of such regulation. Thus, targeting the ATM/autophagy pathway might be a promising strategy to achieve the maximal anticancer effect of this compound.
PXD012545	30760537	The Old and the New: Discovery Proteomics Identifies Putative Novel Seminal Fluid Proteins in Drosophila. 	Compartmentalization and modulation of reproductive protein networks in response to experimental sexual selection	Reproductive Protein Networks	Seminal fluid proteins (SFPs), the nonsperm component of male ejaculates produced by male accessory glands, are viewed as central mediators of reproductive fitness. SFPs effect both male and female post-mating functions and show molecular signatures of rapid adaptive evolution. Although Drosophila melanogaster, is the dominant insect model for understanding SFP evolution, understanding of SFP evolutionary causes and consequences require additional comparative analyses of close and distantly related taxa. Although SFP identification was historically challenging, advances in label-free quantitative proteomics expands the scope of studying other systems to further advance the field. Focused studies of SFPs has so far overlooked the proteomes of male reproductive glands and their inherent complex protein networks for which there is little information on the overall signals of molecular evolution. Here we applied label-free quantitative proteomics to identify the accessory gland proteome and secretome in Drosophila pseudoobscura,, a close relative of D. melanogaster,, and use the dataset to identify both known and putative novel SFPs. Using this approach, we identified 163 putative SFPs, 32% of which overlapped with previously identified D. melanogaster, SFPs and show that SFPs with known extracellular annotation evolve more rapidly than other proteins produced by or contained within the accessory gland. Our results will further the understanding of the evolution of SFPs and the underlying male accessory gland proteins that mediate reproductive fitness of the sexes.
PXD009655	30760538	Microvesicle Proteomic Profiling of Uterine Liquid Biopsy for Ovarian Cancer Early Detection. 	Microvesicle Proteomic profiling of Uterine Liquid Biopsy for Ovarian Cancer Early Detection	Ovarian Cancer, Q-Exactive, biomarker, microvesicles, utero-tubal lavage	High-grade ovarian cancer (HGOC) is the leading cause of mortality from gynecological malignancies, because of diagnosis at a metastatic stage. Current screening options fail to improve mortality because of the absence of early-stage-specific biomarkers. We postulated that a liquid biopsy, such as utero-tubal lavage (UtL), may identify localized lesions better than systemic approaches of serum/plasma analysis. Further, while mutation-based assays are challenged by the rarity of tumor DNA within nonmutated DNA, analyzing the proteomic profile, is expected to enable earlier detection, as it reveals perturbations in both the tumor as well as in its microenvironment. To attain deep proteomic coverage and overcome the high dynamic range of this body fluid, we applied our method for microvesicle proteomics to the UtL samples. Liquid biopsies from HGOC patients (n = 49) and controls (n = 127) were divided into a discovery and validation sets. Data-dependent analysis of the samples on the Q-Exactive mass spectrometer provided depth of 8578 UtL proteins in total, and on average ~3000 proteins per sample. We used support vector machine algorithms for sample classification, and crossed three feature-selection algorithms, to construct and validate a 9-protein classifier with 70% sensitivity and 76.2% specificity. The signature correctly identified all Stage I lesions. These results demonstrate the potential power of microvesicle-based proteomic biomarkers for early cancer diagnosis.
PXD012105	30760637	Extrachloroplastic PP7L Functions in Chloroplast Development and Abiotic Stress Tolerance. 	Proteome Analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana PP7L mutants	ImpactII, chloroplast biogenesis, pp7l, shotgun proteomics	Chloroplast biogenesis is indispensable for proper plant development and environmental acclimation. In a screen for mutants affected in photosynthesis, we identified the protein phosphatase7-like (pp7l) mutant, which displayed delayed chloroplast development in cotyledons and young leaves. PP7L, PP7, and PP7-long constitute a subfamily of phosphoprotein phosphatases. PP7 is thought to transduce a blue-light signal perceived by crys and phy a that induces expression of SIGMA FACTOR5 (SIG5). We observed that, like PP7, PP7L was predominantly localized to the nucleus in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and the pp7l phenotype was similar to that of the sig6 mutant. However, SIG6 expression was unaltered in pp7l mutants. Instead, loss of PP7L compromised translation and ribosomal RNA (rRNA) maturation in chloroplasts, pointing to a distinct mechanism influencing chloroplast development. Promoters of genes deregulated in pp7l-1 were enriched in PHYTOCHROME-INTERACTING FACTOR (PIF)-binding motifs and the transcriptome of pp7l-1 resembled those of pif and CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENESIS1 (COP1) signalosome complex (csn) mutants. However, pif and csn mutants, as well as cop1, cryptochromes (cry)1 cry2, and phytochromes (phy)A phyB mutants, do not share the pp7l photosynthesis phenotype. PhyB protein levels were elevated in pp7l mutants, but phyB overexpression plants did not resemble pp7l These results indicate that PP7L operates through a different pathway and that the control of greening and photosystem biogenesis can be separated. The lack of PP7L increased susceptibility to salt and high-light stress, whereas PP7L overexpression conferred resistance to high-light stress. Strikingly, PP7L was specifically recruited to Brassicales for the regulation of chloroplast development. This study adds another player involved in chloroplast biogenesis.
PXD008201	30760870	RUNX proteins desensitize multiple myeloma to lenalidomide via protecting IKZFs from degradation. 	MudPIT analyses of the proteins associated with IFZK3 and IFZK1 in a human multiple myeloma cell line, ARP-1	IKZFs, RUNX1, multiple myeloma, transcription factors	Ikaros family zinc finger protein 1 and 3 (IKZF1 and IKZF3) are transcription factors that promote multiple myeloma (MM) proliferation. The immunomodulatory imide drug (IMiD) lenalidomide promotes myeloma cell death via Cereblon (CRBN)-dependent ubiquitylation and proteasome-dependent degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3. Although IMiDs have been used as first-line drugs for MM, the overall survival of refractory MM patients remains poor and demands the identification of novel agents to potentiate the therapeutic effect of IMiDs. Using an unbiased screen based on mass spectrometry, we identified the Runt-related transcription factor 1 and 3 (RUNX1 and RUNX3) as interactors of IKZF1 and IKZF3. Interaction with RUNX1 and RUNX3 inhibits CRBN-dependent binding, ubiquitylation, and degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 upon lenalidomide treatment. Inhibition of RUNXs, via genetic ablation or a small molecule (AI-10-104), results in sensitization of myeloma cell lines and primary tumors to lenalidomide. Thus, RUNX inhibition represents a valuable therapeutic opportunity to potentiate IMiDs therapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
PXD011933	30760930	Diabetes relief in mice by glucose-sensing insulin-secreting human alpha-cells. 	Human pancreatic endocrine cells, LC-MS3	LC-MS3, TMT 11-plex, endocrine cells	Cell-identity switches, in which terminally differentiated cells are converted into different cell types when stressed, represent a widespread regenerative strategy in animals, yet they are poorly documented in mammals. In mice, some glucagon-producing pancreatic alpha-cells and somatostatin-producing delta-cells become insulin-expressing cells after the ablation of insulin-secreting beta-cells, thus promoting diabetes recovery. Whether human islets also display this plasticity, especially in diabetic conditions, remains unknown. Here we show that islet non-beta-cells, namely alpha-cells and pancreatic polypeptide (PPY)-producing gamma-cells, obtained from deceased non-diabetic or diabetic human donors, can be lineage-traced and reprogrammed by the transcription factors PDX1 and MAFA to produce and secrete insulin in response to glucose. When transplanted into diabetic mice, converted human alpha-cells reverse diabetes and continue to produce insulin even after six months. Notably, insulin-producing alpha-cells maintain expression of alpha-cell markers, as seen by deep transcriptomic and proteomic characterization. These observations provide conceptual evidence and a molecular framework for a mechanistic understanding of in situ cell plasticity as a treatment for diabetes and other degenerative diseases.
PXD009911	30761109	iTRAQ Proteomic Analysis of Continuously Cropped Soybean Root Inoculated With Funneliformis mosseae. 	Soybean root LC-MSMS -  iTRAQ Proteomic Analysis of Continuously Cropped Soybean Root Inoculated With Funneliformis mosseae	Soybean root, iTRAQ proteomic analysis	Soybean (Glycine max) is susceptible to root rot when subjected to continuous cropping, and this disease can seriously diminish the crop yield. Proteomics analyses can show the difference of protein expression in different treatment samples. Herein, isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) labeling and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) were employed for proteomic analysis of continuously cropped soybean inoculated with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (AMF) Funneliformis mosseae. The AMF can reduce the incidence of root rot and increase plant height, biomass index in 1, 2, and 4 year of continuous cropping. Differential expression of proteins in soybean roots was determined following 1 year of continuous cropping. A total of 131 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in F. mosseae-treated samples, of which 49 and 82 were up- and down-regulated, respectively. The DEPs were annotated with 117 gene ontology (GO) terms, with 48 involved in biological processes, 31 linked to molecular functions, and 39 associated with cell components. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis mapped the DEPs to 113 mainly metabolic pathways including oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and amino acid metabolism. Expression of glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase, chalcone isomerase, calcium-dependent phospholipid binding and other defense-related proteins was up-regulated by F. mosseae, suggesting inoculation promotes the growth and development of soybean and increases disease resistance. The findings provide an experimental basis for further research on the molecular mechanisms of AMF in resolving problems associated with continuous soybean cropping.
PXD011495	30761904	Localization of Outer Membrane Proteins in Treponema denticola by Quantitative Proteome Analyses of Outer Membrane Vesicles and Cellular Fractions. 	Localisation of outer membrane proteins in Treponema denticola by quantitative proteome analyses of outer membrane vesicles and cellular fractions	MaxQuant, Orbitrap, Treponema denticola, bacterial lipoproteins, localization, outer membrane proteins, outer membrane vesicles	The identification and localization of outer membrane proteins (Omps) and lipoproteins in pathogenic treponemes such as T. denticola (periodontitis) and T. pallidum (syphilis) has been challenging. In this study, label-free quantitative proteomics using MaxQuant was applied to naturally produced outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) and cellular fractions to identify 1448 T. denticola proteins. Of these, 90 proteins were localized to the outer membrane (OM) comprising 59 lipoproteins, 25 beta-barrel proteins, and six other putative OM-associated proteins. Twenty-eight lipoproteins were localized to the inner membrane (IM), and 43 proteins were assigned to the periplasm. The signal cleavage regions of the OM and IM lipoprotein sequences were different and may reveal the signals for their differential localization. Proteins significantly enriched in OMVs included dentilisin, proteins containing leucine-rich repeats, and several lipoproteins containing FGE-sulfatase domains. Blue native PAGE analysis enabled the native size of the dentilisin complex and Msp to be determined and revealed that the abundant beta-barrel Omps TDE2508 and TDE1717 formed large complexes. In addition to the large number of integral Omps and potentially surface-located lipoproteins identified in T. denticola, many such proteins were also newly identified in T. pallidum through homology, generating new targets for vaccine development in both species.
PXD012823	30767340	Acid stress response of Staphylococcus xylosus elicits changes in the proteome and cellular membrane. 	Acid stress response of Staphylococcus xylosus elicits changes in the proteome and cellular membrane	Sausage fermentation, UV-mutation, acid adaptation, fatty acids, staphylococci	AIMS: Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus xylosus strains are used as starter organisms for sausage fermentation. As those strains have to cope with low pH-values during fermentation, the aim of this study was to identify the acid adaptation mechanisms of S. xylosus TMW 2.1523 previously isolated from salami. METHODS AND RESULTS: A comparative proteomic study between two different acid tolerant mutants was performed. Therefore, both S. xylosus mutants were grown pH-static under acid stress (pH 5.1) and reference conditions (pH 7.0). Proteomic data were supported by metabolite and cell membrane lipid analysis. Staphylococcus xylosus acid stress adaptation is mainly characterized by a metabolic change towards neutral metabolites, enhanced urease activity, reduced ATP consumption, an increase in membrane fluidity and changes in the membrane thickness. CONCLUSION: This study corroborates mechanisms as previously described for other Gram-positive bacteria. Additionally, the adjustment of membrane structure and composition in S. xylosus TMW 2.1523 play a prominent role in its acid adaptation. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This study demonstrates for the first time changes in the membrane lipid composition due to acid stress adaptation in staphylococci.
PXD007220	30767541	Disease Development Is Accompanied by Changes in Bacterial Protein Abundance and Functions in a Refined Model of Dextran Sulfate Sodium (DSS)-Induced Colitis. 	DSS Microbiota LC-MS/MS       .	Dextran sulfate sodium (DSS), Metaproteomics, colitis, metaproteomics, microbiota, mouse model	Using the acute dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis model, studies have demonstrated that intestinal inflammation is accompanied by major changes in the composition of the intestinal microbiota. Only little is known about the microbial changes and more importantly their functional impact in the chronic DSS colitis model. We used a refined model of chronic DSS-induced colitis that reflects typical symptoms of the human disease without detrimental weight loss usually observed in DSS models. We sampled cecum and colon content as well as colon mucus from healthy and diseased mouse cohorts ( n = 12) and applied 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metaproteomics. An increase of Prevotella sp. in both colon content and mucus was observed. Functional differences were observed between sample types demonstrating the importance of separately sampling lumen content and mucus. The abundance of Desulfovibrio, a sulfate-reducing bacterium, was positively associated with the carbon metabolism. Lachnoclostridium was positively correlated to both vitamin B6 and tryptophan metabolism. In summary, functional changes in the distal colon caused by DSS treatment were more pronounced in the mucus-associated microbiota than in the microbiota present in the distal colon content.
PXD011106	30767727	Proteomic Changes in Oral Keratinocytes Chronically Exposed to Shisha (Water Pipe). 	Proteomic analysis of oral keratinocytes chronically exposed to shisha	Immune response, Oxidative stress, in vitro cellular model, interferon pathway	Shisha (water pipe) smoking is falsely believed to be a hazard-free habit and has become a major public health concern. Studies have reported shisha smoking to be associated with oral lesions, as well as carcinomas of the lung, esophagus, bladder, and pancreas. A deeper understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms would contribute to identification of biomarkers for targeted public health screening, therapeutic innovation, and better prognosis of associated diseases. In this study, we have established an in vitro chronic cellular model of shisha-exposed oral keratinocytes to study the effect of shisha on oral cells. Normal nontransformed, immortalized oral keratinocytes were chronically exposed to shisha extract for 8 months. This resulted in significant increase in cellular proliferation and cell invasion in shisha-exposed cells compared to the parental cells. Quantitative proteomic analysis of OKF6/TERT1-Parental and OKF6/TERT1-Shisha cells resulted in the identification of 5515 proteins. Forty-three differentially expressed proteins were found to be common across all conditions. Bioinformatic analysis of the dysregulated proteins identified in the proteomic study revealed dysregulation of interferon pathway, upregulation of proteins involved in cell growth, and downregulation of immune processes. The present findings reveal that chronic exposure of normal oral keratinocytes to shisha leads to cellular transformation and dysregulation of immune response. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report that has developed a model of oral keratinocytes chronically exposed to shisha and identified proteomic alterations associated with shisha exposure. However, further research is required to evaluate the health burden of shisha smoking.
PXD010532	30767890	Combined transcriptome and proteome profiling reveals specific molecular brain signatures for sex, maturation and circalunar clock phase. 	Platynereis head proteome -  Combined transcriptome and proteome profiling reveals specific molecular brain signatures for sex, maturation and circalunar clock phase	Platynereis dumerilii, circalunar, head, labelled proteomics, maturation, quantitative proteomics, sex bias, shotgun proteomics	Many marine animals, ranging from corals to fishes, synchronise reproduction to lunar cycles. In the annelid Platynereis dumerilii, this timing is orchestrated by an endogenous monthly (circalunar) clock entrained by moonlight. Whereas daily (circadian) clocks cause extensive transcriptomic and proteomic changes, the quality and quantity of regulations by circalunar clocks have remained largely elusive. By establishing a combined transcriptomic and proteomic profiling approach, we provide first systematic insight into the molecular changes in Platynereis heads between circalunar phases, and across sexual differentiation and maturation. Whereas maturation elicits large transcriptomic and proteomic changes, the circalunar clock exhibits only minor transcriptomic, but strong proteomic regulation. Our study provides a versatile extraction technique and comprehensive resources. It corroborates that circadian and circalunar clock effects are likely distinct and identifies key molecular brain signatures for reproduction, sex and circalunar clock phase. Examples include prepro-whitnin/proctolin and ependymin-related proteins as circalunar clock targets.
PXD009203	30770125	Integrated Fourier Transform Infrared Imaging and Proteomics for Identification of a Candidate Histochemical Biomarker in Bladder Cancer. 	Integrated FTIR imaging and proteomics for identification of a candidate histochemical biomarker in bladder cancer	bladder, tissue	Histopathological differentiation between severe urocystitis with reactive urothelial atypia and carcinoma in situ (CIS) can be difficult, particularly after a treatment that deliberately induces an inflammatory reaction, such as intravesical instillation of Bacillus Calmette-Guerin. However, precise grading in bladder cancer is critical for therapeutic decision making and thus requires reliable immunohistochemical biomarkers. Herein, an exemplary potential biomarker in bladder cancer was identified by the novel approach of Fourier transform infrared imaging for label-free tissue annotation of tissue thin sections. Identified regions of interest are collected by laser microdissection to provide homogeneous samples for liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis. This approach afforded label-free spatial classification with a high accuracy and without interobserver variability, along with the molecular resolution of the proteomic analysis. Cystitis and invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma samples were analyzed. Three candidate biomarkers were identified and verified by immunohistochemistry in a small cohort, including low-grade urothelial carcinoma samples. The best-performing candidate AHNAK2 was further evaluated in a much larger independent verification cohort that also included CIS samples. Reactive urothelial atypia and CIS were distinguishable on the basis of the expression of this newly identified and verified immunohistochemical biomarker, with a sensitivity of 97% and a specificity of 69%. AHNAK2 can differentiate between reactive urothelial atypia in the setting of an acute or chronic cystitis and nonmuscle invasive-type CIS.
PXD012378	30770806	ASPP proteins discriminate between PP1 catalytic subunits through their SH3 domain and the PP1 C-tail. 	Analalysis of ASPP2 interaction		Serine/threonine phosphatases such as PP1 lack substrate specificity and associate with a large array of targeting subunits to achieve the requisite selectivity. The tumour suppressor ASPP (apoptosis-stimulating protein of p53) proteins associate with PP1 catalytic subunits and are implicated in multiple functions from transcriptional regulation to cell junction remodelling. Here we show that Drosophila ASPP is part of a multiprotein PP1 complex and that PP1 association is necessary for several in vivo functions of Drosophila ASPP. We solve the crystal structure of the human ASPP2/PP1 complex and show that ASPP2 recruits PP1 using both its canonical RVxF motif, which binds the PP1 catalytic domain, and its SH3 domain, which engages the PP1 C-terminal tail. The ASPP2 SH3 domain can discriminate between PP1 isoforms using an acidic specificity pocket in the n-Src domain, providing an exquisite mechanism where multiple motifs are used combinatorially to tune binding affinity to PP1.
PXD012264	30772082	Feedback-Driven Mechanisms between Microtubules and the Endoplasmic Reticulum Instruct Neuronal Polarity. 	RTNs and DP1 Knockdown in neurons	DP1, RTN, TMT labeling, cortical neurons, shRNA.	Establishment of neuronal polarity depends on local microtubule (MT) reorganization. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) consists of cisternae and tubules and, like MTs, forms an extensive network throughout the entire cell. How the two networks interact and control neuronal development is an outstanding question. Here we show that the interplay between MTs and the ER is essential for neuronal polarity. ER tubules localize within the axon, whereas ER cisternae are retained in the somatodendritic domain. MTs are essential for axonal ER tubule stabilization, and, reciprocally, the ER is required for stabilizing and organizing axonal MTs. Recruitment of ER tubules into one minor neurite initiates axon formation, whereas ER retention in the perinuclear area or disruption of ER tubules prevent neuronal polarization. The ER-shaping protein P180, present in axonal ER tubules, controls axon specification by regulating local MT remodeling. We propose a model in which feedback-driven regulation between the ER and MTs instructs neuronal polarity.
PXD008984	30775418	Measles Virus-Based Treatments Trigger a Pro-inflammatory Cascade and a Distinctive Immunopeptidome in Glioblastoma. 	Identification of changes in the LNZ308 HLA immunopeptidome after virotherapy, irradiation and chemotherapy	Glioblastoma, LCMS, immunopeptidome, oncolytic virotherapy, personalized immunotherapy	Glioblastoma is an aggressive primary brain tumor with bad prognosis. On the other hand, oncolytic measles virus (MeV) therapy is an experimental glioma treatment strategy with clinical safety and first evidence of anti-tumoral efficacy. Therefore, we investigated the combination of MeV with conventional therapies by cytotoxic survival assays in long-term glioma cell lines LN229, LNZ308, and glioma stem-like GS8 cells, as well as the basal viral infectivity in primary glioblastoma cultures T81/16, T1094/17, and T708/16. We employed Chou-Talalay analysis to identify the synergistic treatment sequence chemotherapy, virotherapy, and finally radiotherapy (CT-VT-RT). RNA sequencing and immunopeptidome analyses were used to delineate treatment-induced molecular and immunological profiles. CT-VT-RT displayed synergistic anti-glioma activity and initiated a type 1 interferon response, along with canonical Janus kinase-signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling, and downstream interferon-stimulated genes were induced, resulting in apoptotic cascades. Furthermore, antigen presentation along with immunostimulatory chemokines was increased in CT-VT-RT-treated glioma cells, indicating a treatment-induced pro-inflammatory phenotype. We identified novel treatment-induced viral and tumor-associated peptides through HLA ligandome analysis. Our data delineate an actionable treatment-induced molecular and immunological signature of CT-VT-RT, and they could be exploited for the design of novel tailored treatment strategies involving virotherapy and immunotherapy.
PXD009314	30777003	Involvement of jasmonic acid, ethylene and salicylic acid signaling pathways behind the systemic resistance induced by Trichoderma longibrachiatum H9 in cucumber. 	Translatome analysis by iTRAQ in cucumber	Translatome  cucumber	BACKGROUND: Trichoderma spp. are effective biocontrol agents for many plant pathogens, thus the mechanism of Trichoderma-induced plant resistance is not fully understood. In this study, a novel Trichoderma strain was identified, which could promote plant growth and reduce the disease index of gray mold caused by Botrytis cinerea in cucumber. To assess the impact of Trichoderma inoculation on the plant response, a multi-omics approach was performed in the Trichoderma-inoculated cucumber plants through the analyses of the plant transcriptome, proteome, and phytohormone content. RESULTS: A novel Trichoderma strain was identified by morphological and molecular analysis, here named T. longibrachiatum H9. Inoculation of T. longibrachiatum H9 to cucumber roots promoted plant growth in terms of root length, plant height, and fresh weight. Root colonization of T. longibrachiatum H9 in the outer layer of epidermis significantly inhibited the foliar pathogen B. cinerea infection in cucumber. The plant transcriptome and proteome analyses indicated that a large number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in cucumber plants 96 h post T. longibrachiatum H9 inoculation. Up-regulated DEGs and DEPs were mainly associated with defense/stress processes, secondary metabolism, and phytohormone synthesis and signaling, including jasmonic acid (JA), ethylene (ET) and salicylic acid (SA), in the T. longibrachiatum H9-inoculated cucumber plants in comparison to untreated plants. Moreover, the JA and SA contents significantly increased in cucumber plants with T. longibrachiatum H9 inoculation. CONCLUSIONS: Application of T. longibrachiatum H9 to the roots of cucumber plants effectively promoted plant growth and significantly reduced the disease index of gray mold caused by B. cinerea. The analyses of the plant transcriptome, proteome and phytohormone content demonstrated that T. longibrachiatum H9 mediated plant systemic resistance to B. cinerea challenge through the activation of signaling pathways associated with the phytohormones JA/ET and SA in cucumber.
PXD011962	30778087	Metabolism as an early predictor of DPSCs aging. 	Metabolism as an early predictor of DPSCs aging	aging stem cell	Tissue resident adult stem cells are known to participate in tissue regeneration and repair that follows cell turnover, or injury. It has been well established that aging impedes the regeneration capabilities at the cellular level, but it is not clear if the different onset of stem cell aging between individuals can be predicted or prevented at an earlier stage. Here we studied the dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs), a population of adult stem cells that is known to participate in the repair of an injured tooth, and its properties can be affected by aging. The dental pulp from third molars of a diverse patient group were surgically extracted, generating cells that had a high percentage of mesenchymal stem cell markers CD29, CD44, CD146 and Stro1 and had the ability to differentiate into osteo/odontogenic and adipogenic lineages. Through RNA seq and qPCR analysis we identified homeobox protein, Barx1, as a marker for DPSCs. Furthermore, using high throughput transcriptomic and proteomic analysis we identified markers for DPSC populations with accelerated replicative senescence. In particular, we show that the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) pathway and the cytoskeletal proteins are upregulated in rapid aging DPSCs, indicating a loss of stem cell characteristics and spontaneous initiation of terminal differentiation. Importantly, using metabolic flux analysis, we identified a metabolic signature for the rapid aging DPSCs, prior to manifestation of senescence phenotypes. This metabolic signature therefore can be used to predict the onset of replicative senescence. Hence, the present study identifies Barx1 as a DPSCs marker and dissects the first predictive metabolic signature for DPSCs aging.
PXD010355	30778561	An atypical aspartic protease modulates lateral root development in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	An atypical aspartic protease modulates lateral root development in Arabidopsis thaliana	ASPR1, Atypical aspartic protease, ROS, auxin, lateral root, magnICON expression system, root development	Few atypical aspartic proteases (APs) present in plants have been functionally studied to date despite having been implicated in developmental processes and stress responses. Here we characterize a novel atypical AP that we name Atypical Aspartic Protease in Roots 1 (ASPR1), denoting its expression in Arabidopsis roots. Recombinant ASPR1 produced by transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana was active and displayed atypical properties, combining optimum acidic pH, partial sensitivity to pepstatin, pronounced sensitivity to redox agents, and unique specificity preferences resembling those of fungal APs. ASPR1 overexpression suppressed primary root growth and lateral root development, implying a previously unknown biological role for an AP. Quantitative comparison of wild-type and aspr1 root proteomes revealed deregulation of proteins associated with both reactive oxygen species and auxin homeostasis in the mutant. Together, our findings on ASPR1 reinforce the diverse pattern of enzymatic properties and biological roles of atypical APs and raise exciting questions on how these distinctive features impact functional specialization among these proteases.
PXD011464	30779550	Multiplexed Relative Quantitation with Isobaric Tagging Mass Spectrometry Reveals Class I Major Histocompatibility Complex Ligand Dynamics in Response to Doxorubicin. 	Integrative MHC-I peptidome quantitation with isobaric tagging mass spectrometry	MHC-I peptidomics, Source Proteome	MHC-I peptides are intracellular-cleaved peptides, usually 8-11 amino acids in length, which are presented on the cell surface and facilitate CD8(+) T cell responses. Despite the appreciation of CD8(+) T-cell antitumor immune responses toward improvement in patient outcomes, the MHC-I peptide ligands that facilitate the response are poorly described. Along these same lines, although many therapies have been recognized for their ability to reinvigorate antitumor CD8(+) T-cell responses, whether these therapies alter the MHC-I peptide repertoire has not been fully assessed due to the lack of quantitative strategies. We develop a multiplexing platform for screening therapy-induced MHC-I ligands by employing tandem mass tags (TMTs). We applied this approach to measuring responses to doxorubicin, which is known to promote antitumor CD8(+) T-cell responses during its therapeutic administration in cancer patients. Using both in vitro and in vivo systems, we show successful relative quantitation of MHC-I ligands using TMT-based multiplexing and demonstrate that doxorubicin induces MHC-I peptide ligands that are largely derived from mitotic progression and cell-cycle proteins. This high-throughput MHC-I ligand discovery approach may enable further explorations to understand how small molecules and other therapies alter MHC-I ligand presentation that may be harnessed for CD8(+) T-cell-based immunotherapies.
PXD008152	30781503	Gut Mucosal Proteins and Bacteriome Are Shaped by the Saturation Index of Dietary Lipids. 	Effects of lipid diets on the metaproteome of mouse colon mucosa	colon mucosa, fatty acids, iTRAQ, lipid diet, metaproteome	The dynamics of the tripartite relationship between the host, gut bacteria and diet in the gut is relatively unknown. An imbalance between harmful and protective gut bacteria, termed dysbiosis, has been linked to many diseases and has most often been attributed to high-fat dietary intake. However, we recently clarified that the type of fat, not calories, were important in the development of murine colitis. To further understand the host-microbe dynamic in response to dietary lipids, we fed mice isocaloric high-fat diets containing either milk fat, corn oil or olive oil and performed 16S rRNA gene sequencing of the colon microbiome and mass spectrometry-based relative quantification of the colonic metaproteome. The corn oil diet, rich in omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids, increased the potential for pathobiont survival and invasion in an inflamed, oxidized and damaged gut while saturated fatty acids promoted compensatory inflammatory responses involved in tissue healing. We conclude that various lipids uniquely alter the host-microbe interaction in the gut. While high-fat consumption has a distinct impact on the gut microbiota, the type of fatty acids alters the relative microbial abundances and predicted functions. These results support that the type of fat are key to understanding the biological effects of high-fat diets on gut health.
PXD012235	30782962	Efficient mitotic checkpoint signaling depends on integrated activities of Bub1 and the RZZ complex. 	Efficient checkpoint signaling depends on the integrated activities of Bub1 and the RZZ complex	Mitosis Proteomics BUB1	Kinetochore localized Mad1 is essential for generating a "wait anaphase" signal during mitosis, hereby ensuring accurate chromosome segregation. Inconsistent models for the function and quantitative contribution of the two mammalian Mad1 kinetochore receptors: Bub1 and the Rod-Zw10-Zwilch (RZZ) complex exist. By combining genome editing and RNAi, we achieve penetrant removal of Bub1 and Rod in human cells, which reveals that efficient checkpoint signaling depends on the integrated activities of these proteins. Rod removal reduces the proximity of Bub1 and Mad1, and we can bypass the requirement for Rod by tethering Mad1 to kinetochores or increasing the strength of the Bub1-Mad1 interaction. We find that Bub1 has checkpoint functions independent of Mad1 localization that are supported by low levels of Bub1 suggesting a catalytic function. In conclusion, our results support an integrated model for the Mad1 receptors in which the primary role of RZZ is to localize Mad1 at kinetochores to generate the Mad1-Bub1 complex.
PXD012108	30783116	The flavonoid 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone promotes autophagy-dependent longevity across species. 	The flavonoid 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone promotes autophagy-dependent longevity across species	DMC, autophagy, longevity	Ageing constitutes the most important risk factor for all major chronic ailments, including malignant, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. However, behavioural and pharmacological interventions with feasible potential to promote health upon ageing remain rare. Here we report the identification of the flavonoid 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone (DMC) as a natural compound with anti-ageing properties. External DMC administration extends the lifespan of yeast, worms and flies, decelerates senescence of human cell cultures, and protects mice from prolonged myocardial ischaemia. Concomitantly, DMC induces autophagy, which is essential for its cytoprotective effects from yeast to mice. This pro-autophagic response induces a conserved systemic change in metabolism, operates independently of TORC1 signalling and depends on specific GATA transcription factors. Notably, we identify DMC in the plant Angelica keiskei koidzumi, to which longevity- and health-promoting effects are ascribed in Asian traditional medicine. In summary, we have identified and mechanistically characterised the conserved longevity-promoting effects of a natural anti-ageing drug.
PXD011257	30784271	Pre-fractionation Extends but also Creates a Bias in the Detectable HLA Class Iota Ligandome. 	Pre-fractionation extends, but creates a bias in the detectable HLA class  ligandome	HLA class  ligandome, HLA class  peptide ligands, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), high pH reversed phase, strong cation exchan	HLA class Iota molecules can communicate a range of cellular alterations (mutations, changes in protein copy number, aberrant post-translational modifications, or pathogen proteins) to CD8+ T lymphocytes in the form of HLA peptide ligands. At any given moment, tens of thousands of different self and foreign HLA class Iota peptides may be presented on the cell surface by HLA class Iota complexes. Due to the enormous biochemical diversity and low abundance of each of these peptides, HLA ligandome analysis presents unique challenges. Even with advances in enrichment strategies and MS instrumentation and fragmentation, sufficient ligandome depth for identification of viral pathogens and immuno therapeutically important tumor neo-antigens is still not routinely achievable. In this study, we evaluated two pre-fractionation techniques, high-pH reversed-phase and strong cation exchange, for the complementary analyses of HLA class Iota peptide ligands. We observe that pre-fractionation substantially extends the detectable HLA class Iota ligandome but also creates an identification bias. We thus advocate a rational choice between high-pH reversed-phase or strong cation exchange pre-fractionation for deeper HLA class Iota ligandome analysis, depending on the HLA locus, allele, or peptide ligand modification in question.
PXD011762	30785213	Large-scale secretome analyses unveil the superior immunosuppressive phenotype of umbilical cord stromal cells as compared to other adult mesenchymal stromal cells. 	Large-scale secretome analyses unveil a superior immunosuppressive phenotype from umbilical cord stromal cells compared to other adult mesenchymal stromal cells	LFQ, Umbilical cord stromal cells, adult stromal cells, chondrocytes, secretome and immunomodulation	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), given their regenerative potential, are being investigated as a potential therapeutic tool for cartilage lesions. MSCs express several bioactive molecules which act in a paracrine fashion to modulate the tissue microenvironment. Yet, little is known about the divergence of these signalling molecules in different MSC populations. The present study investigated secretomes of stromal cells harvested from Hoffa's fat pad (HFPSCs), synovial membrane (SMSCs), umbilical cord (UCSCs) and cartilage (ACs) by quantitative liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) proteomics. Also, multiplex protein arrays and functional assays were performed to compare the constitutive immunomodulatory capabilities of different MSCs. Proteins involved in extracellular matrix degradation and inflammation, such as matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), interleukin (IL)-17 and complement factors, were downregulated in UCSCs as compared to adult cell sources. Additionally, secretion of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) was enhanced in UCSC supernatants. UCSCs were superior in inhibiting peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) proliferation, migration and cytokine secretion as compared to adult stromal cells. SMSCs significantly suppressed the proliferation of PBMCs only if they were primed with pro-inflammatory cytokines. Although all cell types repressed human leukocyte antigen-DR isotype (HLA-DR) surface expression and cytokine release by activated macrophages, only UCSCs significantly blocked IL-6 and IL-12 production. Furthermore, UCSCs supernatants increased aggrecan gene expression in two-dimensional chondrocyte cultures. The data demonstrated that UCSCs displayed superior anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties than stromal cells from adult tissues. This allogeneic cell source could potentially be considered as an adjuvant therapy for articular cartilage repair.
PXD011329	30786936	Glucose-dependent phosphorylation signaling pathways and crosstalk to mitochondrial respiration in insulin secreting cells. 	Glucose-dependent phosphorylation in insulin secreting cells	INS-1E, Phosphorylation, RP-LC MS/MS, Rat	BACKGROUND: Glucose is the main secretagogue of pancreatic beta-cells. Uptake and metabolism of the nutrient stimulates the beta-cell to release the blood glucose lowering hormone insulin. This metabolic activation is associated with a pronounced increase in mitochondrial respiration. Glucose stimulation also initiates a number of signal transduction pathways for the coordinated regulation of multiple biological processes required for insulin secretion. METHODS: Shotgun proteomics including TiO2 enrichment of phosphorylated peptides followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry on lysates from glucose-stimulated INS-1E cells was used to identify glucose regulated phosphorylated proteins and signal transduction pathways. Kinase substrate enrichment analysis (KSEA) was applied to identify key regulated kinases and phosphatases. Glucose-induced oxygen consumption was measured using a XF96 Seahorse instrument to reveal cross talk between glucose-regulated kinases and mitochondrial activation. RESULTS: Our kinetic analysis of substrate phosphorylation reveal the molecular mechanism leading to rapid activation of insulin biogenesis, vesicle trafficking, insulin granule exocytosis and cytoskeleton remodeling. Kinase-substrate enrichment identified upstream kinases and phosphatases and time-dependent activity changes during glucose stimulation. Activity trajectories of well-known glucose-regulated kinases and phosphatases are described. In addition, we predict activity changes in a number of kinases including NUAK1, not or only poorly studied in the context of the pancreatic beta-cell. Furthermore, we pharmacologically tested whether signaling pathways predicted by kinase-substrate enrichment analysis affected glucose-dependent acceleration of mitochondrial respiration. We find that phosphoinositide 3-kinase, Ca2+/calmodulin dependent protein kinase and protein kinase C contribute to short-term regulation of energy metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide a global view into the regulation of kinases and phosphatases in insulin secreting cells and suggest cross talk between glucose-induced signal transduction and mitochondrial activation.
PXD009260	30787279	The companion of cellulose synthase 1 confers salt tolerance through a Tau-like mechanism in plants. 	Cross-linking of the microtubule binding N-terminal domain of the companion of cellulose synthase 1 protein (CC1C223) from Arabidopsis thaliana with tubulin	CX-MS, Cross-linking, Microtubule, Tubulin	Microtubules are filamentous structures necessary for cell division, motility and morphology, with dynamics critically regulated by microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs). Here we outline the molecular mechanism by which the MAP, COMPANION OF CELLULOSE SYNTHASE1 (CC1), controls microtubule bundling and dynamics to sustain plant growth under salt stress. CC1 contains an intrinsically disordered N-terminus that links microtubules at evenly distributed points through four conserved hydrophobic regions. By NMR and live cell analyses we reveal that two neighboring residues in the first hydrophobic binding motif are crucial for the microtubule interaction. The microtubule-binding mechanism of CC1 is reminiscent to that of the prominent neuropathology-related protein Tau, indicating evolutionary convergence of MAP functions across animal and plant cells.
PXD010845	30787912	Combined Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis of RpoS Regulon Reveals Its Role in Spoilage Potential of Pseudomonas fluorescens. 	Combining transcriptome and proteome analysis to identify and characterize the RpoS regulon in Pseudomonas fluorescens	Pseudomonas fluorescens, RpoS, regulon, transcriptome	Microbial contamination is considered the main cause of food spoilage. Pseudomonas fluorescens is a typical spoilage bacterium contributing to a large extent to the spoilage process of proteinaceous foods. RpoS is known as an alternative sigma factor controlling stress resistance and virulence in many pathogens. Our previous work revealed that RpoS contributes to the spoilage activities of P. fluorescens by regulating resistance to different stress conditions, extracellular acylated homoserine lactone (AHL) levels, extracellular protease and total volatile basic nitrogen (TVB-N) production. However, RpoS-dependent genes in P. fluorescens remained undefined. RNA-seq transcriptomics analysis combined with quantitative proteomics analysis based on multiplexed isobaric tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling was performed in the P. fluorescens wild-type strain UK4 and its derivative carrying an rpoS mutation. A total of 375 differentially expressed coding sequences (DECs) and 212 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified. The DECs were further verified by qRT-PCR. The combined transcriptome and proteome analyses revealed the involvement of this regulator in several cellular processes, mainly including polysaccharide metabolism, intracellular secretion, extracellular structures, cell wall biogenesis, stress responses, and amino acid and biogenic amine metabolism, which may contribute to the biofilm formation, stress resistance, and spoilage activities of P. fluorescens. Moreover, we indeed observed that RpoS contributed to the production of the macrocolony biofilm's matrix. Our results provide insights into the regulatory network of RpoS and expand the knowledge about the role of RpoS in the functioning of P. fluorescens in food spoilage.
PXD012457	30789256	A Multiplex Fragment-Ion-Based Method for Accurate Proteome Quantification. 	A multiplex fragment ion-based method for accurate proteome quantification	dimethyl labeling, fragment ion-based method, high accuracy, multiplex method, proteome quantification	Multiplex proteome quantification with high accuracy is urgently required to achieve a comprehensive understanding of dynamic cellular and physiological processes. Among the existing quantification strategies, fragment-ion-based methods can provide highly accurate results, but the multiplex capacity is limited to 3-plex. Herein, we developed a multiplex pseudo-isobaric dimethyl labeling (m-pIDL) method to extend the capacity of the fragment-ion-based method to 6-plex by one-step dimethyl labeling with several millidalton and dalton mass differences between precursor ions and enlarging the isolation window of precursor ions to 10 m/ z during data acquisition. m-pIDL showed high quantification accuracy within the 20-fold dynamic range. Notably, the ratio compression was 1.13-fold in a benchmark two-proteome model (5:1 mixed E. coli proteins with HeLa proteins as interference), indicating that by m-pIDL, the ratio distortion of isobaric labeling approaches and the approximate 40% ratio shift of the label-free quantification strategy could be effectively eliminated. Additionally, m-pIDL did not show ratio variation among post-translational modifications (CV = 6.66%), which could benefit the measurement of universal protein properties for proteomic atlases. We further employed m-pIDL to monitor the time-resolved responses of the TGF-beta-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in lung adenocarcinoma A549 cell lines, which facilitated the finding of new potential regulatory proteins. Therefore, the 6-plex quantification of m-pIDL with the remarkably high accuracy might create new prospects for comprehensive proteome analysis.
PXD010539	30790448	Proteomic and Post-Translational Modification Profiling of Exosome-Mimetic Nanovesicles Compared to Exosomes. 	Data in support of proteomics of EVs md mimetic vesicles from	microvesicles proteomics	Issues associated with upscaling exosome production for therapeutic use may be overcome through utilizing artificial exosomes. Cell-derived mimetic nanovesicles (M-NVs) are a potentially promising alternative to exosomes for clinical applicability, demonstrating higher yield without incumbent production and isolation issues. Although several studies have shown that M-NVs have similar morphology, size and therapeutic potential compared to exosomes, comprehensive characterization and to what extent M-NVs components mimic exosomes remain elusive. M-NVs were generated through the extrusion of cells and proteomic profiling demonstrated an enrichment of proteins associated with membrane and cytosolic components. The proteomic data herein reveal a subset of proteins that are highly abundant in M-NVs in comparison to exosomes. M-NVs contain proteins that largely represent the parental cell proteome, whereas the profile of exosomal proteins highlight their endosomally derived origin. This advantage of M-NVs alleviates the necessity of endosomal sorting of endogenous therapeutic proteins or RNA into exosomes. This study also highlights differences in protein post-translational modifications among M-NVs, as distinct from exosomes. Overall this study provides key insights into defining the proteome composition of M-NVs as a distinct from exosomes, and the potential advantage of M-NVs as an alternative nanocarrier when spontaneous endosomal sorting of therapeutics are limited.
PXD009564	30792016	Synbiotic-driven improvement of metabolic disturbances is associated with changes in the gut microbiome in diet-induced obese mice. 	Gut Microbiome LC-MS          .	Gut Microbiome, LC-MS, Mice, Synbiotics	OBJECTIVE: The gut microbiota is an important influencing factor of metabolic health. Although dietary interventions with probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics can be effective means to regulate obesity and associated comorbidities, the underlying shifts in gut microbial communities, especially at the functional level, have not been characterized in great details. In this study, we sought to investigate the effects of synbiotics on the regulation of gut microbiota and the alleviation of high-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic disorders in mice. METHODS: Specific pathogen-free (SPF) male C57BL/6J mice were fed diets with either 10% (normal diet, ND) or 60% (high-fat diet, HFD) of total calories from fat (lard). Dietary interventions in the HFD-fed mice included (i) probiotic (Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis and Lactobacillus paracasei subsp. paracasei DSM 46331), (ii) prebiotic (oat beta-glucan), and (iii) synbiotic (a mixture of i and ii) treatments for 12 weeks. Besides detailed characterization of host metabolic parameters, a multi-omics approach was used to systematically profile the microbial signatures at both the phylogenetic and functional levels using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, metaproteomics and targeted metabolomics analysis. RESULTS: The synbiotic intervention significantly reduced body weight gain and alleviated features of metabolic complications. At the phylogenetic level, the synbiotic treatment significantly reversed HFD-induced changes in microbial populations, both in terms of richness and the relative abundance of specific taxa. Potentially important species such as Faecalibaculum rodentium and Alistipes putredinis that might mediate the beneficial effects of the synbiotic were identified. At the functional level, short-chain fatty acid and bile acid profiles revealed that all dietary interventions significantly restored cecal levels of acetate, propionate, and butyrate, while the synbiotic treatment reduced the bile acid pools most efficiently. Metaproteomics revealed that the effects of the synbiotic intervention might be mediated through metabolic pathways involved in carbohydrate, amino acid, and energy metabolisms. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggested that dietary intervention using the novel synbiotic can alleviate HFD-induced weight gain and restore gut microbial ecosystem homeostasis phylogenetically and functionally.
PXD012650	30792186	Human colon organoids reveal distinct physiologic and oncogenic Wnt responses. 	Human colon organoids reveal distinct physiologic and oncogenic Wnt responses	APC mutation, CRISPR/Cas9, Human colon, Isogenic lines, Label free quantification, Organoids, Wnt signaling	Constitutive Wnt activation upon loss of Adenoma polyposis coli (APC) acts as main driver of colorectal cancer (CRC). Targeting Wnt signaling has proven difficult because the pathway is crucial for homeostasis and stem cell renewal. To distinguish oncogenic from physiological Wnt activity, we have performed transcriptome and proteome profiling in isogenic human colon organoids. Culture in the presence or absence of exogenous ligand allowed us to discriminate receptor-mediated signaling from the effects of CRISPR/Cas9-induced APC loss. We could catalog two nonoverlapping molecular signatures that were stable at distinct levels of stimulation. Newly identified markers for normal stem/progenitor cells and adenomas were validated by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. We found that oncogenic Wnt signals are associated with good prognosis in tumors of the consensus molecular subtype 2 (CMS2). In contrast, receptor-mediated signaling was linked to CMS4 tumors and poor prognosis. Together, our data represent a valuable resource for biomarkers that allow more precise stratification of Wnt responses in CRC.
PXD010600	30792264	Metabolic, Anti-apoptotic and Immune Evasion Strategies of Primary Human Myeloma Cells Indicate Adaptations to Hypoxia. 	New insights into hypoxia-driven metabolic, anti-apoptotic and immune evasion strategies of primary human myeloma cells	Anti-apoptosis, ER stress, Hypoxia, Immune evasion, In-depth proteome profiling, Metabolic adaptations, Multiple myeloma, Primary human bone marrow plasma cells	Multiple Myeloma (MM) is an incurable plasma cell malignancy primarily localized within the bone marrow (BM). It develops from a premalignant stage, monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), often via an intermediate stage, smoldering MM (SMM). The mechanisms of MM progression have not yet been fully understood, all the more because patients with MGUS and SMM already carry similar initial mutations as found in MM cells. Over the last years, increased importance has been attributed to the tumor microenvironment and its role in the pathophysiology of the disease. Adaptations of MM cells to hypoxic conditions in the BM have been shown to contribute significantly to MM progression, independently from the genetic predispositions of the tumor cells. Searching for consequences of hypoxia-induced adaptations in primary human MM cells, CD138-positive plasma cells freshly isolated from BM of patients with different disease stages, comprising MGUS, SMM, and MM, were analyzed by proteome profiling, which resulted in the identification of 6218 proteins. Results have been made fully accessible via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010600. Data previously obtained from normal primary B cells were included for comparative purposes. A principle component analysis revealed three clusters, differentiating B cells as well as MM cells corresponding to less and more advanced disease stages. Comparing these three clusters pointed to the alteration of pathways indicating adaptations to hypoxic stress in MM cells on disease progression. Protein regulations indicating immune evasion strategies of MM cells were determined, supported by immunohistochemical staining, as well as transcription factors involved in MM development and progression. Protein regulatory networks related to metabolic adaptations of the cells became apparent. Results were strengthened by targeted analyses of a selected panel of metabolites in MM cells and MM-associated fibroblasts. Based on our data, new opportunities may arise for developing therapeutic strategies targeting myeloma disease progression.
PXD010954	30792274	Ubiquitin-dependent chloroplast-associated protein degradation in plants. 	TAP-Toc33 purification	Toc33	Chloroplasts contain thousands of nucleus-encoded proteins that are imported from the cytosol by translocases in the chloroplast envelope membranes. Proteolytic regulation of the translocases is critically important, but little is known about the underlying mechanisms. We applied forward genetics and proteomics in Arabidopsis to identify factors required for chloroplast outer envelope membrane (OEM) protein degradation. We identified SP2, an Omp85-type beta-barrel channel of the OEM, and CDC48, a cytosolic AAA+ (ATPase associated with diverse cellular activities) chaperone. Both proteins acted in the same pathway as the ubiquitin E3 ligase SP1, which regulates OEM translocase components. SP2 and CDC48 cooperated to bring about retrotranslocation of ubiquitinated substrates from the OEM (fulfilling conductance and motor functions, respectively), enabling degradation of the substrates by the 26S proteasome in the cytosol. Such chloroplast-associated protein degradation (CHLORAD) is vital for organellar functions and plant development.
PXD012256	30793044	Oxylipins mediate cell-to-cell communication in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	P. aeruginosa PAO1 and odsR (PA2076) strains	P. aeruginosa	Oxygenated unsaturated fatty acids, known as oxylipins, are signaling molecules commonly used for cell-to-cell communication in eukaryotes. However, a role for oxylipins in mediating communication in prokaryotes has not previously been described. Bacteria mainly communicate via quorum sensing, which involves the production and detection of diverse small molecules termed autoinducers. Here we show that oleic acid-derived oxylipins produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa function as autoinducers of a novel quorum sensing system. We found that this system controls the cell density-dependent expression of a gene subset independently of the quorum sensing systems thus far described in this bacterium. We identified a LysR-type transcriptional regulator as the primary receptor of the oxylipin signal. The discovery of this oxylipin-dependent quorum sensing system reveals that prokaryote-derived oxylipins also mediate cell-to-cell communication in bacteria.
PXD012407	30793047	Quantitative intrinsic auto-cathodoluminescence can resolve spectral signatures of tissue-isolated collagen extracellular matrix. 	Quantitative intrinsic auto-cathodoluminescence can resolve spectral signatures of tissue-isolated collagen extracellular matrix	Cathodoluminescence-SEM, Extracellular matrix	By analyzing isolated collagen gel samples, we demonstrated in situ detection of spectrally deconvoluted auto-cathodoluminescence signatures of specific molecular content with precise spatial localization over a maximum field of view of 300 microm. Correlation of the secondary electron and the hyperspectral images proved ~40 nm resolution in the optical channel, obtained due to a short carrier diffusion length, suppressed by fibril dimensions and poor electrical conductivity specific to their organic composition. By correlating spectrally analyzed auto-cathodoluminescence with mass spectroscopy data, we differentiated spectral signatures of two extracellular matrices, namely human fibrin complex and rat tail collagen isolate, and uncovered differences in protein distributions of isolated extracellular matrix networks of heterogeneous populations. Furthermore, we demonstrated that cathodoluminescence can monitor the progress of a human cell-mediated remodeling process, where human collagenous matrix was deposited within a rat collagenous matrix. The revealed change of the heterogeneous biological composition was confirmed by mass spectroscopy.
PXD011920	30793498	Insight into Salivary Gland Proteomes of Two Polyphagous Stink Bugs: Nezara viridula L. and Halyomorpha halys Staal. 	Salivary glands proteome of stink bugs	Halyomorpha halys, Nezara viridula, Salivary glands	The invasive brown marmorated stink bug (BMSB), Halyomorpha halys Staal, and the southern green stink bugs (SGSBs), Nezara viridula L., are widely distributed in Europe, even if the date of introduction and the diet differ. Saliva of Hemipteran pests plays essential roles in the interaction between insects and their host plants. The salivary proteomes of several aphid species have been studied and found to differ according to the species, while no comparative investigation between phytophagous stink bugs has been performed yet. Here, the salivary proteins from two bugs, BMSB and SGSB, are analyzed using LC-MS/MS. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD011920 and PXD011976. A total of 238 and 305 proteins are identified in salivary glands of BMSB and SGSB, respectively. In comparison with salivary proteome from other Hemiptera, the most striking feature of the salivary gland proteomes of SGSB and BMSB is the similar pattern of protein functions between both species. Some of the proteins are speculated to play a significant role in plant-insect interactions. The results herein provide a framework for future research to elucidate the molecular basis of differential impact of piercing-sucking insects on host plants.
PXD005060	30793903	Multi-Reference Spectral Library Yields Almost Complete Coverage of Heterogeneous LC-MS/MS Data Sets. 	Protein expression difference in Drosophila speciation	drosophila speciation, novel slice variants, quantitative proteomics, shotgun proteomics	Spectral libraries play a central role in the analysis of data-independent-acquisition (DIA) proteomics experiments. A main assumption in current spectral library tools is that a single characteristic intensity pattern (CIP) suffices to describe the fragmentation of a peptide in a particular charge state (peptide charge pair). However, we find that this is often not the case. We carry out a systematic evaluation of spectral variability over public repositories and in-house data sets. We show that spectral variability is widespread and partly occurs under fixed experimental conditions. Using clustering of preprocessed spectra, we derive a limited number of multiple characteristic intensity patterns (MCIPs) for each peptide charge pair, which allow almost complete coverage of our heterogeneous data set without affecting the false discovery rate. We show that a MCIP library derived from public repositories performs in most cases similar to a "custom-made" spectral library, which has been acquired under identical experimental conditions as the query spectra. We apply the MCIP approach to a DIA data set and observe a significant increase in peptide recognition. We propose the MCIP approach as an easy-to-implement addition to current spectral library search engines and as a new way to utilize the data stored in spectral repositories.
PXD009157	30794532	Phosphodiesterase beta is the master regulator of cAMP signalling during malaria parasite invasion. 	Phosphodiesterase beta controls cAMP signalling during malaria parasite erythrocyte invasion	Malaria, Orbitrap, PKA, Phosphoproteomics, TMT, cAMP	Cyclic nucleotide signalling is a major regulator of malaria parasite differentiation. Phosphodiesterase (PDE) enzymes are known to control cyclic GMP (cGMP) levels in the parasite, but the mechanisms by which cyclic AMP (cAMP) is regulated remain enigmatic. Here, we demonstrate that Plasmodium falciparum phosphodiesterase beta (PDEbeta) hydrolyses both cAMP and cGMP and is essential for blood stage viability. Conditional gene disruption causes a profound reduction in invasion of erythrocytes and rapid death of those merozoites that invade. We show that this dual phenotype results from elevated cAMP levels and hyperactivation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Phosphoproteomic analysis of PDEbeta-null parasites reveals a >2-fold increase in phosphorylation at over 200 phosphosites, more than half of which conform to a PKA substrate consensus sequence. We conclude that PDEbeta plays a critical role in governing correct temporal activation of PKA required for erythrocyte invasion, whilst suppressing untimely PKA activation during early intra-erythrocytic development.
PXD012419	30794636	Identification and characterization of the first pectin methylesterase gene discovered in the root lesion nematode Pratylenchus penetrans. 	Pratylenchus penetrans PME -  Identification and characterization of the first pectin methylesterase gene discovered in the root lesion nematode Pratylenchus penetrans	PME, Plant parasitic nematode	Similar to other plant-parasitic nematodes, root lesion nematodes possess an array of enzymes that are involved in the degradation of the plant cell wall. Here we report the identification of a gene encoding a cell wall-degrading enzyme, pectin methylesterase PME (EC 3.1.1.11), in the root lesion nematode Pratylenchus penetrans. Both genomic and coding sequences of the gene were cloned for this species, that included the presence of four introns which eliminated a possible contamination from bacteria. Expression of the Pp-pme gene was localized in the esophageal glands of P. penetrans as determined by in situ hybridization. Temporal expression of Pp-pme in planta was validated at early time points of infection. The possible function and activity of the gene were assessed by transient expression of Pp-pme in plants of Nicotiana benthamiana plants via a Potato virus X-based vector. To our knowledge, this is the first report on identification and characterization of a PME gene within the phylum Nematoda.
PXD012150	30795585	Root Proteomics Reveals the Effects of Wood Vinegar on Wheat Growth and Subsequent Tolerance to Drought Stress. 	wheat root MALDI-TOF-MS/MS -  Root Proteomics Reveals the Effects of Wood Vinegar on Wheat Growth and Subsequent Tolerance to Drought Stress	MALDI-TOF-MS/MS, root, wheat	Wood vinegar (WV) or pyroligneous acid (PA) is a reddish-brown liquid created during the dry distillation of biomass, a process called pyrolysis. WV contains important biologically active components, which can enhance plant growth and tolerance to drought stress. However, its mechanism of action remains unknown. Our results after presoaking wheat seeds with various concentrations of WV indicate that a 1:900 WV concentration can significantly enhance growth. To investigate the response of wheat roots to drought stress, we compared quantitative proteomic profiles in the roots of wheat plants grown from seeds either presoaked (treatment) or non-presoaked (control) with WV. Our results indicated that the abscisic acid (ABA) content of wheat roots in the WV treatment was significantly increased. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malonaldehyde (MDA) levels roots were significantly lower than in the control treatment under drought stress, while the activity of major antioxidant enzymes was significantly increased. Two-dimensional electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) identified 138 differentially accumulated protein (DAP) spots representing 103 unique protein species responding to drought stress in wheat roots of the control and WV-treated groups. These DAPs are mostly involved in the stress response, carbohydrate metabolism, protein metabolism, and secondary metabolism. Proteome profiles showed the DAPs involved in carbohydrate metabolism, stress response, and secondary metabolism had increased accumulation in roots of the WV-treated groups. These findings suggest that the roots from wheat seeds presoaked with WV can initiate an early defense mechanism to mitigate drought stress. These results provide an explanation of how WV enhances the tolerance of wheat plants to drought stress.
PXD010304	30795634	In-Depth Proteome Analysis Highlights HepaRG Cells as a Versatile Cell System Surrogate for Primary Human Hepatocytes. 	Proteome and secretome of HepaRG cells	HPR116, copy numbers, functional assays, secretome, surrogate cell system to PHH	Of the hepatic cell lines developed for in vitro studies of hepatic functions as alternatives to primary human hepatocytes, many have lost major liver-like functions, but not HepaRG cells. The increasing use of the latter worldwide raises the need for establishing the reference functional status of early biobanked HepaRG cells. Using deep proteome and secretome analyses, the levels of master regulators of the hepatic phenotype and of the structural elements ensuring biliary polarity were found to be close to those in primary hepatocytes. HepaRG cells proved to be highly differentiated, with functional mitochondria, hepatokine secretion abilities, and an adequate response to insulin. Among differences between primary human hepatocytes and HepaRG cells, the factors that possibly support HepaRG transdifferentiation properties are discussed. The HepaRG cell system thus appears as a robust surrogate for primary hepatocytes, which is versatile enough to study not only xenobiotic detoxification, but also the control of hepatic energy metabolism, secretory function and disease-related mechanisms.
PXD011636	30795981	Persistent Antibody Clonotypes Dominate the Serum Response to Influenza over Multiple Years and Repeated Vaccinations. 	Longitudinal proteomic analysis of influenza HA-reactive IgG antibody repertoire over multiple years and repeated vaccinations	Ig-Seq, IgG, immunoglobulin, influenza, serum antibody profiling	Humans are repeatedly exposed to influenza virus via infections and vaccinations. Understanding how multiple exposures and pre-existing immunity impact antibody responses is essential for vaccine development. Given the recent prevalence of influenza H1N1 A/California/7/2009 (CA09), we examined the clonal composition and dynamics of CA09 hemagglutinin (HA)-reactive IgG repertoire over 5 years in a donor with multiple influenza exposures. The anti-CA09 HA polyclonal response in this donor comprised 24 persistent antibody clonotypes, accounting for 72.6% +/- 10.0% of the anti-CA09 HA repertoire over 5 years. These persistent antibodies displayed higher somatic hypermutation relative to transient serum antibodies detected at one time point. Additionally, persistent antibodies predominantly demonstrated cross-reactivity and potent neutralization toward a phylogenetically distant H5N1 A/Vietnam/1203/2004 (VT04) strain, a feature correlated with HA stem recognition. This analysis reveals how "serological imprinting" impacts responses to influenza and suggests that once elicited, cross-reactive antibodies targeting the HA stem can persist for years.
PXD011859	30796049	Multi-omics identify xanthine as a pro-survival metabolite for nematodes with mitochondrial dysfunction. 	Mitochondrial mutant Caenorhabditis elegans phosphoproteome	Caenorhabditis elegans, Complex I, IIS, insulin signaling, metabolism, mitochondria, mitochondrial deficiency	Aberrant mitochondrial function contributes to the pathogenesis of various metabolic and chronic disorders. Inhibition of insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) represents a promising avenue for the treatment of mitochondrial diseases, although many of the molecular mechanisms underlying this beneficial effect remain elusive. Using an unbiased multi-omics approach, we report here that IIS inhibition reduces protein synthesis and favors catabolism in mitochondrial deficient Caenorhabditis elegans We unveil that the lifespan extension does not occur through the restoration of mitochondrial respiration, but as a consequence of an ATP-saving metabolic rewiring that is associated with an evolutionarily conserved phosphoproteome landscape. Furthermore, we identify xanthine accumulation as a prominent downstream metabolic output of IIS inhibition. We provide evidence that supplementation of FDA-approved xanthine derivatives is sufficient to promote fitness and survival of nematodes carrying mitochondrial lesions. Together, our data describe previously unknown molecular components of a metabolic network that can extend the lifespan of short-lived mitochondrial mutant animals.
PXD008243	30796087	Unraveling the hidden universe of small proteins in bacterial genomes. 	Detection of SEPs by MS -  Unraveling the hidden universe of small proteins in bacterial genomes	Mycoplasma capricolum, Mycoplasma gallisepticum, Mycoplasma genitalium, Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae, Mycoplasma mycoides., Mycoplasma pneumoniae, SEPs	Identification of small open reading frames (smORFs) encoding small proteins (<= 100 amino acids; SEPs) is a challenge in the fields of genome annotation and protein discovery. Here, by combining a novel bioinformatics tool (RanSEPs) with "-omics" approaches, we were able to describe 109 bacterial small ORFomes. Predictions were first validated by performing an exhaustive search of SEPs present in Mycoplasma pneumoniae proteome via mass spectrometry, which illustrated the limitations of shotgun approaches. Then, RanSEPs predictions were validated and compared with other tools using proteomic datasets from different bacterial species and SEPs from the literature. We found that up to 16 +/- 9% of proteins in an organism could be classified as SEPs. Integration of RanSEPs predictions with transcriptomics data showed that some annotated non-coding RNAs could in fact encode for SEPs. A functional study of SEPs highlighted an enrichment in the membrane, translation, metabolism, and nucleotide-binding categories. Additionally, 9.7% of the SEPs included a N-terminus predicted signal peptide. We envision RanSEPs as a tool to unmask the hidden universe of small bacterial proteins.
PXD012448	30796211	The human gut Firmicute Roseburia intestinalis is a primary degrader of dietary beta-mannans. 	The Human Gut Firmicute Roseburia intestinalis is a Primary Degrader of Dietary beta-Mannans	Q-Exactive, Roseburia intestinalis	beta-Mannans are plant cell wall polysaccharides that are commonly found in human diets. However, a mechanistic understanding into the key populations that degrade this glycan is absent, especially for the dominant Firmicutes phylum. Here, we show that the prominent butyrate-producing Firmicute Roseburia intestinalis expresses two loci conferring metabolism of beta-mannans. We combine multi-"omic" analyses and detailed biochemical studies to comprehensively characterize loci-encoded proteins that are involved in beta-mannan capturing, importation, de-branching and degradation into monosaccharides. In mixed cultures, R. intestinalis shares the available beta-mannan with Bacteroides ovatus, demonstrating that the apparatus allows coexistence in a competitive environment. In murine experiments, beta-mannan selectively promotes beneficial gut bacteria, exemplified by increased R. intestinalis, and reduction of mucus-degraders. Our findings highlight that R. intestinalis is a primary degrader of this dietary fiber and that this metabolic capacity could be exploited to selectively promote key members of the healthy microbiota using beta-mannan-based therapeutic interventions.
PXD011837	30797773	Convergent Identification and Interrogation of Tumor-Intrinsic Factors that Modulate Cancer Immunity In Vivo. 	Prkar1a_SILAC_Proteomics      .	mouse Prkar1a SILAC phosphoproteomics proteomics	The genetic makeup of cancer cells directs oncogenesis and influences the tumor microenvironment. In this study, we massively profiled genes that functionally drive tumorigenesis using genome-scale in vivo CRISPR screens in hosts with different levels of immunocompetence. As a convergent hit from these screens, Prkar1a mutant cells are able to robustly outgrow as tumors in fully immunocompetent hosts. Functional interrogation showed that Prkar1a loss greatly altered the transcriptome and proteome involved in inflammatory and immune responses as well as extracellular protein production. Single-cell transcriptomic profiling and flow cytometry analysis mapped the tumor microenvironment of Prkar1a mutant tumors and revealed the transcriptomic alterations in host myeloid cells. Taken together, our data suggest that tumor-intrinsic mutations in Prkar1a lead to drastic alterations in the genetic program of cancer cells, thereby remodeling the tumor microenvironment.
PXD009540	30798110	Rapamycin regulates cholesterol biosynthesis and cytoplasmic ribosomal proteins in hippocampus and temporal lobe of APP/PS1 mouse. 	Rapamycin regulate cholesterol metabolism and ribosomal proteins in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, Hippocampus, Protomics, Rapamycin, Temporal lobe	As an inhibitor of the immune system and a longevity drug, rapamycin has been suggested as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease, although the underlying mechanisms remain to be clarified. To elucidate the mechanisms, we performed a high-throughput quantitative proteomics analysis and bioinformatics analysis of the changes in the proteome profiles of hippocampus and temporal lobe of wild-type mice, APP/PS1 mice and rapamycin-treated APP/PS1 mice (ProteomeXchange: PXD009540). Morris Water Maze tests were used to evaluate the effectiveness of rapamycin in APP/PS1 treatment and Western blot analysis was used to verify the proteomics data. The results of Morris Water Maze tests indicated that rapamycin improved the spatial learning and memory abilities of APP/PS1 mice. Proteome analysis identified 100 significantly changed (SC) proteins in hippocampus and 260 in temporal lobe in APP/PS1 mice. Among these, 57 proteins in hippocampus and 167 proteins in temporal lobe were rescued by rapamycin. STRING analysis indicated relatively more complicated protein interactions of AD-related rapamycin rescued proteins in temporal lobe. Pathway analysis showed that SC proteins in APP/PS1 mice were mainly enriched in cholesterol biosynthesis pathway and cytoplasmic ribosomal proteins. After rapamycin treatment, the expression of most proteins in these signaling pathways were reversed. Overall, our findings demonstrate that rapamycin may be an potential strategy which can effectively delays the progression of AD.
PXD012243	30798302	An Advanced Strategy for Comprehensive Profiling of ADP-ribosylation Sites Using Mass Spectrometry-based Proteomics. 	An advanced strategy for comprehensive profiling of ADP-ribosylation sites using mass spectrometry-based proteomics	ADP-ribosylation, ADPr, ETD, EThcD, LUMOS, LysC, PARP, trypsin	ADP-ribosylation is a widespread post-translational modification (PTM) with crucial functions in many cellular processes. Here, we describe an in-depth ADP-ribosylome using our Af1521-based proteomics methodology for comprehensive profiling of ADP-ribosylation sites, by systematically assessing complementary proteolytic digestions and precursor fragmentation through application of electron-transfer higher-energy collisional dissociation (EThcD) and electron transfer dissociation (ETD), respectively. Although ETD spectra yielded higher identification scores, EThcD generally proved superior to ETD in identification and localization of ADP-ribosylation sites regardless of protease employed. Notwithstanding, the propensities of complementary proteases and fragmentation methods expanded the detectable repertoire of ADP-ribosylation to an unprecedented depth. This system-wide profiling of the ADP-ribosylome in HeLa cells subjected to DNA damage uncovered >11,000 unique ADP-ribosylated peptides mapping to >7,000 ADP-ribosylation sites, in total modifying over one-third of the human nuclear proteome and highlighting the vast scope of this PTM. High-resolution MS/MS spectra enabled identification of dozens of proteins concomitantly modified by ADP-ribosylation and phosphorylation, revealing a considerable degree of crosstalk on histones. ADP-ribosylation was confidently localized to various amino acid residue types, including less abundantly modified residues, with hundreds of ADP-ribosylation sites pinpointed on histidine, arginine, and tyrosine residues. Functional enrichment analysis suggested modification of these specific residue types is directed in a spatial manner, with tyrosine ADP-ribosylation linked to the ribosome, arginine ADP-ribosylation linked to the endoplasmic reticulum, and histidine ADP-ribosylation linked to the mitochondrion.
PXD012045	30799487	Depletion of the RNA binding protein HNRNPD impairs homologous recombination by inhibiting DNA-end resection and inducing R-loop accumulation. 	Depletion of the RNA binding protein HNRNPD impairs homologous recombination by inhibiting DNA-end resection and inducing R-loop accumulation	DNA damage, DNA end resection, HNRNPD, R-loop, RNA binding proteins	DNA double strand break (DSB) repair through homologous recombination (HR) is crucial to maintain genome stability. DSB resection generates a single strand DNA intermediate, which is crucial for the HR process. We used a synthetic DNA structure, mimicking a resection intermediate, as a bait to identify proteins involved in this process. Among these, LC/MS analysis identified the RNA binding protein, HNRNPD. We found that HNRNPD binds chromatin, although this binding occurred independently of DNA damage. However, upon damage, HNRNPD re-localized to gammaH2Ax foci and its silencing impaired CHK1 S345 phosphorylation and the DNA end resection process. Indeed, HNRNPD silencing reduced: the ssDNA fraction upon camptothecin treatment; AsiSI-induced DSB resection; and RPA32 S4/8 phosphorylation. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated HNRNPD knockout impaired in vitro DNA resection and sensitized cells to camptothecin and olaparib treatment. We found that HNRNPD interacts with the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein SAF-A previously associated with DNA damage repair. HNRNPD depletion resulted in an increased amount of RNA:DNA hybrids upon DNA damage. Both the expression of RNase H1 and RNA pol II inhibition recovered the ability to phosphorylate RPA32 S4/8 in HNRNPD knockout cells upon DNA damage, suggesting that RNA:DNA hybrid resolution likely rescues the defective DNA damage response of HNRNPD-depleted cells.
PXD011545	30801024	Systems-Level Analysis of Oxygen Exposure in Zymomonas mobilis: Implications for Isoprenoid Production. 	Systems-level Analysis of Oxygen Exposure in Zymomonas mobilis: Implications for Isoprenoid Production	Biofuels, Isoprenoid, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Zymomonas mobilis	Zymomonas mobilis is an aerotolerant anaerobe and prolific ethanologen with attractive characteristics for industrial bioproduct generation. However, there is currently insufficient knowledge of the impact that environmental factors have on flux through industrially relevant biosynthetic pathways. Here, we examined the effect of oxygen exposure on metabolism and gene expression in Z. mobilis by combining targeted metabolomics, mRNA sequencing, and shotgun proteomics. We found that exposure to oxygen profoundly influenced metabolism, inducing both transient metabolic bottlenecks and long-term metabolic remodeling. In particular, oxygen induced a severe but temporary metabolic bottleneck in the methyl erythritol 4-phosphate pathway for isoprenoid biosynthesis caused by oxidative damage to the iron-sulfur cofactors of the final two enzymes in the pathway. This bottleneck was resolved with minimal changes in expression of isoprenoid biosynthetic enzymes. Instead, it was associated with pronounced upregulation of enzymes related to iron-sulfur cluster maintenance and biogenesis (i.e., flavodoxin reductase and the suf operon). We also detected major changes in glucose utilization in the presence of oxygen. Specifically, we observed increased gluconate production following exposure to oxygen, accounting for 18% of glucose uptake. Our results suggest that under aerobic conditions, electrons derived from the oxidation of glucose to gluconate are diverted to the electron transport chain, where they can minimize oxidative damage by reducing reactive oxygen species such as H2O2. This model is supported by the simultaneous upregulation of three membrane-bound dehydrogenases, cytochrome c peroxidase, and a cytochrome bd oxidase following exposure to oxygen. IMPORTANCE Microbially generated biofuels and bioproducts have the potential to provide a more environmentally sustainable alternative to fossil-fuel-derived products. In particular, isoprenoids, a diverse class of natural products, are chemically suitable for use as high-grade transport fuels and other commodity molecules. However, metabolic engineering for increased production of isoprenoids and other bioproducts is limited by an incomplete understanding of factors that control flux through biosynthetic pathways. Here, we examined the native regulation of the isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway in the biofuel producer Zymomonas mobilis. We leveraged oxygen exposure as a means to perturb carbon flux, allowing us to observe the formation and resolution of a metabolic bottleneck in the pathway. Our multi-omics analysis of this perturbation enabled us to identify key auxiliary enzymes whose expression correlates with increased production of isoprenoid precursors, which we propose as potential targets for future metabolic engineering.
PXD011299	30804049	Proteomic Maps of Human Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Subgroups. 	GIST proteome dataset(Proteomic Maps of Human Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Subgroups)	Quantitative proteomics	Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is a common sarcoma of gastrointestinal tract (GIT) with high metastatic and recurrence rates, but the proteomic features are still less understood. Here we performed systematic quantitative proteome profiling of GIST from 13 patients classified into very low/low, intermediate and high risk subgroups. An extended cohort of GIST (n = 131) was used for immunohistochemical validation of proteins of interest. In total, 9177 proteins were quantified, covering 55.9% of the GIT transcriptome from The Human Protein Altas. Out of the 9177 quantified proteins, 4930 proteins were observed in all 13 cases with 517 upregulated and 187 downregulated proteins in tumorous tissues independent of risk stage. Pathway analysis showed that the downregulated proteins were mostly enriched in metabolic pathway, whereas the upregulated proteins mainly belonged to spliceosome pathway. In addition, 131 proteins showed differentially expressed patterns among GIST subgroups with statistical significance. The 13 GIST cases were classified into 3 subgroups perfectly based on the expression of these proteins. The intensive comparison of molecular phenotypes and possible functions of quantified oncoproteins, tumor suppressors, phosphatases and kinases between GIST subgroups was carried out. Immunohistochemical analysis of the phosphatase PTPN1 (n = 117) revealed that the GIST patients with high PTPN1 expression had low chances of developing metastasis. Collectively, this work provides valuable information for understanding the inherent biology and evolution of GIST.
PXD013051	30804176	Activation of GCN2 by the ribosomal P-stalk. 	Eukaryotic Ribosome GCN2 interaction Hydrogen/Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry	GCN2, HDX-MS, Ribosome	Cells dynamically adjust their protein translation profile to maintain homeostasis in changing environments. During nutrient stress, the kinase general control nonderepressible 2 (GCN2) phosphorylates translation initiation factor eIF2alpha, initiating the integrated stress response (ISR). To examine the mechanism of GCN2 activation, we have reconstituted this process in vitro, using purified components. We find that recombinant human GCN2 is potently stimulated by ribosomes and, to a lesser extent, by tRNA. Hydrogen/deuterium exchange-mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) mapped GCN2-ribosome interactions to domain II of the uL10 subunit of the ribosomal P-stalk. Using recombinant, purified P-stalk, we showed that this domain of uL10 is the principal component of binding to GCN2; however, the conserved 14-residue C-terminal tails (CTTs) in the P1 and P2 P-stalk proteins are also essential for GCN2 activation. The HisRS-like and kinase domains of GCN2 show conformational changes upon binding recombinant P-stalk complex. Given that the ribosomal P-stalk stimulates the GTPase activity of elongation factors during translation, we propose that the P-stalk could link GCN2 activation to translational stress, leading to initiation of ISR.
PXD012608	30804216	A synthetic non-histone substrate to study substrate targeting by the Gcn5 HAT and sirtuin HDACs. 	A synthetic non-histone substrate to study substrate targeting by the Gcn5 HAT and sirtuin HDACs	Ada3, Gcn5, SAGA, acetylation, consensus sequence, sirtuin, synthetic biology	Gcn5 and sirtuins are highly conserved histone acetyltransferase (HAT) and histone deacetylase (HDAC) enzymes that were first characterized as regulators of gene expression. Although histone tails are important substrates of these enzymes, they also target many nonhistone proteins that function in diverse biological processes. However, the mechanisms used by these enzymes to choose their nonhistone substrates are unknown. Previously, we used SILAC-based MS to identify novel nonhistone substrates of Gcn5 and sirtuins in yeast and found a shared target consensus sequence. Here, we use a synthetic biology approach to demonstrate that this consensus sequence can direct acetylation and deacetylation targeting by these enzymes in vivo Remarkably, fusion of the sequence to a nonsubstrate confers de novo acetylation that is regulated by both Gcn5 and sirtuins. We exploit this synthetic fusion substrate as a tool to define subunits of the Gcn5-containing SAGA and ADA complexes required for nonhistone protein acetylation. In particular, we find a key role for the Ada2 and Ada3 subunits in regulating acetylations on our fusion substrate. In contrast, other subunits tested were largely dispensable, including those required for SAGA stability. In an extended analysis, defects in proteome-wide acetylation observed in ada3Delta mutants mirror those in ada2Delta mutants. Altogether, our work argues that nonhistone protein acetylation by Gcn5 is determined in part by specific amino acids surrounding target lysines but that even optimal sequences require both Ada2 and Ada3 for robust acetylation. The synthetic fusion substrate we describe can serve as a tool to further dissect the regulation of both Gcn5 and sirtuin activities in vivo.
PXD008168	30804327	The classical NLRP3 inflammasome controls FADD unconventional secretion through microvesicle shedding. 	FADD is a new protein secreted unconventionally following classical NLRP3 inflammasome activation	FADD, NLRP3 inflammasome, Orbitrap fusion, human THP1 macrophages, rheumatoid arthritis	Fas-associated death domain (FADD) is a key adaptor molecule involved in numerous physiological processes including cell death, proliferation, innate immunity and inflammation. Therefore, changes in FADD expression have dramatic cellular consequences. In mice and humans, FADD regulation can occur through protein secretion. However, the molecular mechanisms accounting for human FADD secretion were still unknown. Here we report that canonical, non-canonical, but not alternative, NLRP3 inflammasome activation in human monocytes/macrophages induced FADD secretion. NLRP3 inflammasome activation by the bacterial toxin nigericin led to the proinflammatory interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) release and to the induction of cell death by pyroptosis. However, we showed that FADD secretion could occur in absence of increased IL-1beta release and pyroptosis and, reciprocally, that IL-1beta release and pyroptosis could occur in absence of FADD secretion. Especially, FADD, but not IL-1beta, secretion following NLRP3 inflammasome activation required extracellular glucose. Thus, FADD secretion was an active process distinct from unspecific release of proteins during pyroptosis. This FADD secretion process required K(+) efflux, NLRP3 sensor, ASC adaptor and CASPASE-1 molecule. Moreover, we identified FADD as a leaderless protein unconventionally secreted through microvesicle shedding, but not exosome release. Finally, we established human soluble FADD as a new marker of joint inflammation in gout and rheumatoid arthritis, two rheumatic diseases involving the NLRP3 inflammasome. Whether soluble FADD could be an actor in these diseases remains to be determined. Nevertheless, our results advance our understanding of the mechanisms contributing to the regulation of the FADD protein expression in human cells.
PXD010505	30804422	A homopolymeric adenosine tract in the promoter region of nspA influences factor H-mediated serum resistance in Neisseria meningitidis. 	Serum resistance of Neisseria meningitidis strains of the ST-41/44 clonal complex is influenced by a homopolymeric adenosine tract in the promotor region of the nspA gene	Neisseria meningitidis, NspA, ST-41/44, serum resistance	Although usually asymptomatically colonizing the human nasopharynx, the Gram-negative bacterium Neisseria meningitidis (meningococcus) can spread to the blood stream and cause invasive disease. For survival in blood, N. meningitidis evades the complement system by expression of a polysaccharide capsule and surface proteins sequestering the complement regulator factor H (fH). Meningococcal strains belonging to the sequence type (ST-) 41/44 clonal complex (cc41/44) cause a major proportion of serogroup B meningococcal disease worldwide, but they are also common in asymptomatic carriers. Proteome analysis comparing cc41/44 isolates from invasive disease versus carriage revealed differential expression levels of the outer membrane protein NspA, which binds fH. Deletion of nspA reduced serum resistance and NspA expression correlated with fH sequestration. Expression levels of NspA depended on the length of a homopolymeric tract in the nspA promoter: A 5-adenosine tract dictated low NspA expression, whereas a 6-adenosine motif guided high NspA expression. Screening German cc41/44 strain collections revealed the 6-adenosine motif in 39% of disease isolates, but only in 3.4% of carriage isolates. Thus, high NspA expression is associated with disease, but not strictly required. The 6-adenosine nspA promoter is most common to the cc41/44, but is also found in other hypervirulent clonal complexes.
PXD009281	30804502	H4K20me0 recognition by BRCA1-BARD1 directs homologous recombination to sister chromatids. 	H4K20me2 SILAC Nucleosome Affinity Purification	H4K20me0, H4K20me2, Nucleosome Affinity Purification, SILAC, SNAP	Genotoxic DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) can be repaired by error-free homologous recombination (HR) or mutagenic non-homologous end-joining(1). HR supresses tumorigenesis(1), but is restricted to the S and G2 phases of the cell cycle when a sister chromatid is present(2). Breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein (BRCA1) promotes HR by antagonizing the anti-resection factor TP53-binding protein 1(53BP1) (refs. (2-5)), but it remains unknown how BRCA1 function is limited to the S and G2 phases. We show that BRCA1 recruitment requires recognition of histone H4 unmethylated at lysine 20 (H4K20me0), linking DSB repair pathway choice directly to sister chromatid availability. We identify the ankyrin repeat domain of BRCA1-associated RING domain protein 1 (BARD1)-the obligate BRCA1 binding partner(3)-as a reader of H4K20me0 present on new histones in post-replicative chromatin(6). BARD1 ankyrin repeat domain mutations disabling H4K20me0 recognition abrogate accumulation of BRCA1 at DSBs, causing aberrant build-up of 53BP1, and allowing anti-resection activity to prevail in S and G2. Consequently, BARD1 recognition of H4K20me0 is required for HR and resistance to poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors. Collectively, this reveals that BRCA1-BARD1 monitors the replicative state of the genome to oppose 53BP1 function, routing only DSBs within sister chromatids to HR.
PXD012104	30804504	Ubiquilins regulate autophagic flux through mTOR signalling and lysosomal acidification. 	Ubiquilin interactomes from Fly	Ubiquilin	Although the aetiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains poorly understood, impaired proteostasis is a common feature of different forms of ALS. Mutations in genes encoding ubiquilins, UBQLN2 and UBQLN4, cause familial ALS. The role of ubiquilins in proteasomal degradation is well established, but their role in autophagy-lysosomal clearance is poorly defined. Here, we describe a crosstalk between endoplasmic reticulum stress, mTOR signalling and autophagic flux in Drosophila and mammalian cells lacking ubiquilins. We found that loss of ubiquilins leads to endoplasmic reticulum stress, impairs mTORC1 activity, promotes autophagy and causes the demise of neurons. We show that ubiquilin mutants display defective autophagic flux due to reduced lysosome acidification. Ubiquilins are required to maintain proper levels of the V0a/V100 subunit of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase and lysosomal pH. Feeding flies acidic nanoparticles alleviates defective autophagic flux in ubiquilin mutants. Hence, our studies reveal a conserved role for ubiquilins as regulators of autophagy by controlling vacuolar H(+)-ATPase activity and mTOR signalling.
PXD003007	30806030	The impact of the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist liraglutide on the streptozotocin-induced diabetic mouse kidney proteome. 	Liraglutide effect on STZ Mouse Kidney with diabetic nephropathy	Kidney, Liraglutide, STZ, diabetes nephropathy, label-free, shotgun	In diabetes mellitus (DM), the kidneys are exposed to increased levels of hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress. Elevated amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are believed to provoke ultrastructural changes in kidney tissue and can eventually result in DM late complications such as diabetic nephropathy. While it is reported that glucagon-like peptide 1 receptors (GLP-1R) are present in the kidney vasculature, the effects of GLP-1 on the kidney proteome in DM is not well described. Thus, we set out to investigate potential effects on the proteomic level. Here the effects of GLP-1R agonism using the GLP-1 analogue liraglutide are studied in the kidneys of streptozotocin (STZ)-treated mice (n = 6/group) by label-free shotgun mass spectrometry (MS) and targeted MS. Unsupervised and supervised multivariate analyses are followed by one-way ANOVA. Shotgun MS data of vehicle and liraglutide-treated mouse groups are separated in the supervised multivariate analysis and separation is also achieved in the subsequent unsupervised multivariate analysis using targeted MS data. The mouse group receiving the GLP-1R agonist liraglutide has increased protein abundances of glutathione peroxidase-3 (GPX3) and catalase (CATA) while the abundances of neuroplastin (NPTN) and bifunctional glutamate/proline-tRNA ligase (SYEP) are decreased compared to the STZ vehicle mice. The data suggest that GLP-1R agonism mainly influences abundances of structurally involved proteins and proteins involved in oxidative stress responses in the STZ mouse kidney. The changes could be direct effects of GLP-1R agonism in the kidneys or indirectly caused by a systemic response to GLP-1R activation.
PXD012038	30807611	Molecular characterization of Histomonas meleagridis exoproteome with emphasis on protease secretion and parasite-bacteria interaction. 	Molecular characterization of Histomonas meleagridis exoproteome with emphasis on protease secretion and parasite-bacteria interaction - SWATH dataset	Histomonas meleagridis, exoproteome profiling, microbial microenvironment, pathogenesis, protease inhibitor, proteases, protein secretion, protozoa, shotgun exoproteomics, virulence factors	The exoproteome of parasitic protists constitutes extracellular proteins that play a fundamental role in host-parasite interactions. Lytic factors, especially secreted proteases, are capable of modulating tissue invasion, thereby aggravating host susceptibility. Despite the important role of exoproteins during infection, the exoproteomic data on Histomonas meleagridis are non-existent. The present study employed traditional 1D-in-gel-zymography (1D-IGZ) and micro-LC-ESI-MS/MS (shotgun proteomics), to investigate H. meleagridis exoproteomes, obtained from a clonal virulent and an attenuated strain. Both strains were maintained as mono-eukaryotic monoxenic cultures with Escherichia coli. We demonstrated active in vitro secretion kinetics of proteases by both parasite strains, with a widespread proteolytic activity ranging from 17 kDa to 120 kDa. Based on protease inhibitor susceptibility assay, the majority of proteases present in both exoproteomes belonged to the family of cysteine proteases and showed stronger activity in the exoproteome of a virulent H. meleagridis. Shotgun proteomics, aided by customized database search, identified 176 proteins including actin, potential moonlighting glycolytic enzymes, lytic molecules such as pore-forming proteins (PFPs) and proteases like cathepsin-L like cysteine protease. To quantify the exoproteomic differences between the virulent and the attenuated H. meleagridis cultures, a sequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra mass spectrometric (SWATH-MS) approach was applied. Surprisingly, results showed most of the exoproteomic differences to be of bacterial origin, especially targeting metabolism and locomotion. By deciphering such molecular signatures, novel insights into a complex in vitro protozoan- bacteria relationship were elucidated.
PXD012155	30808727	Spatiotemporal Changes of the Phagosomal Proteome in Dendritic Cells in Response to LPS Stimulation. 	Spatiotemporal changes of the phagosomal proteome in dendritic cells in response to LPS stimulation	denditric cells, label-free quantification, phagosomes	Dendritic cells (DCs) are professional phagocytes that use innate sensing and phagocytosis to internalize and degrade self as well as foreign material, such as pathogenic bacteria, within phagosomes. These intracellular compartments are equipped to generate antigenic peptides that serve as source for antigen presentation to T cells initiating adaptive immune responses. The phagosomal proteome of DCs is only partially studied and is highly dynamic as it changes during phagosome maturation, when phagosomes sequentially interact with endosomes and lysosomes. In addition, the activation status of the phagocyte can modulate the phagosomal composition and is able to shape phagosomal functions.In this study, we determined spatiotemporal changes of the proteome of DC phagosomes during their maturation and compared resting and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated bone marrow-derived DCs by label-free, quantitative mass spectrometry. Ovalbumin-coupled latex beads were used as phagocytosis model system and revealed that LPS-treated DCs show decreased recruitment of proteins involved in phagosome maturation, such as subunits of the vacuolar proton ATPase, cathepsin B, D, S, and RAB7. In contrast, those phagosomes were characterized by an increased recruitment of proteins involved in antigen cross-presentation, e.g. different subunits of MHC I molecules, the proteasome and tapasin, confirming the observed increase in cross-presentation efficacy in those cells. Further, several proteins were identified that were not previously associated with phagosomal functions. Hierarchical clustering of phagosomal proteins demonstrated that their acquisition to DC phagosomes is not only dependent on the duration of phagosome maturation but also on the activation state of DCs. Thus, our study provides a comprehensive overview of how DCs alter their phagosome composition in response to LPS, which has profound impact on the initiation of efficient immune responses.
PXD012207	30808902	Serum biomarkers identification by iTRAQ and verification by MRM: S100A8/S100A9 levels predict tumor-stroma involvement and prognosis in Glioblastoma. 	Glioblastoma  serum biomarkers identification by iTRAQ	GBM, Serum, glioblastoma, iTRAQ	Despite advances in biology and treatment modalities, the prognosis of glioblastoma (GBM) remains poor. Serum reflects disease macroenvironment and thus provides a less invasive means to diagnose and monitor a diseased condition. By employing 4-plex iTRAQ methodology, we identified 40 proteins with differential abundance in GBM sera. The high abundance of serum S100A8/S100A9 was verified by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM). ELISA and MRM-based quantitation showed a significant positive correlation. Further, an integrated investigation using stromal, tumor purity and cell type scores demonstrated an enrichment of myeloid cell lineage in the GBM tumor microenvironment. Transcript levels of S100A8/S100A9 were found to be independent poor prognostic indicators in GBM. Medium levels of pre-operative and three-month post-operative follow-up serum S100A8 levels predicted poor prognosis in GBM patients who lived beyond median survival. In vitro experiments showed that recombinant S100A8/S100A9 proteins promoted integrin signalling dependent glioma cell migration and invasion up to a threshold level of concentrations. Thus, we have discovered GBM serum marker by iTRAQ and verified by MRM. We also demonstrate interplay between tumor micro and macroenvironment and identified S100A8 as a potential marker with diagnostic and prognostic value in GBM.
PXD011167	30808967	Phosphorylation Changes in Response to Kinase Inhibitor H89 in PKA-Null Cells. 	H89 Phosphoproteomics in PKA-Null Cells	H89, PKA, kinase inhibitor, phosphoproteomics	Protein phosphorylation, mediated by protein kinases, plays a crucial role in cellular regulation. One of the most important protein kinases is protein kinase A (PKA). N-[2-p-bromocinnamylamino-ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulphonamide (H89) is often used as a "PKA specific inhibitor" to study the involvement of PKA in signaling pathways. However, evidence from cell-free experiments has suggested that H89 can also inhibit other protein kinases. In this study, previously generated PKA-null and PKA-intact mouse cell lines derived from mpkCCD cells were treated with H89 over a range of concentrations commonly used in the literature, followed by mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics to globally assess changes in phosphorylation. From a total of 14,139 phosphorylation sites quantified, we found that 571 and 263 phosphorylation sites with significant changes in abundance in PKA-intact and PKA-null cells, respectively. Analyses of sequence logos generated from significantly decreased phosphorylation sites in PKA-intact and PKA-null cells both revealed a preference for basic amino acids at position -3 and -2. Thus, H89 appears to inhibit basophilic kinases even in the absence of PKA. Likely H89 targets include basophilic protein kinases such as AKT, RSK, AMPK and ROCK. We conclude that, in intact cells, H89 can affect activities of protein kinases other than PKA, and therefore responses to H89 should not be regarded as sufficient evidence for PKA involvement in a signaling process.
PXD010751	30809273	Nitric oxide increases biofilm formation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by activating the transcriptional factor Mac1p and thereby regulating the transmembrane protein Ctr1. 	Nitric oxide modulates Saccharomyces cerevisiae biofilm formation though regulating the transmembrane protein CTR1 by activating its transcriptional factor MAC1.	Nitric oxide, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Transcription factor MAC1, biofilm	BACKGROUND: Biofilms with immobilized cells encased in extracellular polymeric substance are beneficial for industrial fermentation. Their formation is regulated by various factors, including nitric oxide (NO), which is recognized as a quorum-sensing and signal molecule. The mechanisms by which NO regulates bacterial biofilms have been studied extensively and deeply, but were rarely studied in fungi. In this study, we observed the effects of low concentrations of NO on biofilm formation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transcriptional and proteomic analyses were applied to study the mechanism of this regulation. RESULTS: Adding low concentrations of NO donors (SNP and NOC-18) enhanced biofilm formation of S. cerevisiae in immobilized carriers and plastics. Transcriptional and proteomic analyses revealed that expression levels of genes regulated by the transcription factor Mac1p was upregulated in biofilm cells under NO treatment. MAC1 promoted yeast biofilm formation which was independent of flocculation gene FLO11. Increased copper and iron contents, both of which were controlled by Mac1p in the NO-treated and MAC1-overexpressing cells, were not responsible for the increased biofilm formation. CTR1, one out of six genes regulated by MAC1, plays an important role in biofilm formation. Moreover, MAC1 and CTR1 contributed to the cells' resistance to ethanol by enhanced biofilm formation. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that a mechanism for NO-mediated biofilm formation, which involves the regulation of CTR1 expression levels by activating its transcription factor Mac1p, leads to enhanced biofilm formation. The role of CTR1 protein in yeast biofilm formation may be due to the hydrophobic residues in its N-terminal extracellular domain, and further research is needed. This work offers a possible explanation for yeast biofilm formation regulated by NO and provides approaches controlling biofilm formation in industrial immobilized fermentation by manipulating expression of genes involved in biofilm formation.
PXD006585	30811996	Unbiased Profiling of Isogenic Huntington Disease hPSC-Derived CNS and Peripheral Cells Reveals Strong Cell-Type Specificity of CAG Length Effects. 	Proteome profiling of an isogenic CAG allelic panel of Huntington disease hESCs and NPCs	Huntington Disease, NPC, hESC	In Huntington disease (HD), the analysis of tissue-specific CAG repeat length effects has been challenging, given the difficulty in obtaining relevant patient tissues with a broad range of CAG repeat lengths. We used genome editing to generate an allelic panel of isogenic HD (IsoHD) human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines carrying varying CAG repeat lengths in the first exon of HTT. Functional analyses in differentiated neural cells revealed CAG repeat length-related abnormalities in mitochondrial respiration and oxidative stress and enhanced susceptibility to DNA damage. To explore tissue-specific effects in HD, we differentiated the IsoHD panel into neural progenitor cells, neurons, hepatocytes, and muscle cells. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of the resultant cell types identified CAG repeat length-dependent and cell-type-specific molecular phenotypes. We anticipate that the IsoHD panel and transcriptomic and proteomic data will serve as a versatile, open-access platform to dissect the molecular factors contributing to HD pathogenesis.
PXD008104	30813438	Integrative Omic Profiling Reveals Unique Hypoxia Induced Signatures in Gastric Cancer Associated Myofibroblasts. 	Secretomes of Cancer-Associated Myofibroblasts and Normal Tissue Myofibroblasts in hypoxia and normoxia C4PR_LIV	gastric cancer, protein secretion, tumour microenvironment	Although hypoxia is known to contribute to several aspects of tumour progression, relatively little is known about the effects of hypoxia on cancer-associated myofibroblasts (CAMs), or the consequences that conditional changes in CAM function may have on tumour development and metastasis. To investigate this issue in the context of gastric cancer, a comparative multiomic analysis was performed on populations of patient-derived myofibroblasts, cultured under normoxic or hypoxic conditions. Data from this study reveal a novel set of CAM-specific hypoxia-induced changes in gene expression and secreted proteins. Significantly, these signatures are not observed in either patient matched adjacent tissue myofibroblasts (ATMs) or non-cancer associated normal tissue myofibroblasts (NTMs). Functional characterisation of different myofibroblast populations shows that hypoxia-induced changes in gene expression not only enhance the ability of CAMs to induce cancer cell migration, but also confer pro-tumorigenic (CAM-like) properties in NTMs. This study provides the first global mechanistic insight into the molecular changes that contribute to hypoxia-induced pro-tumorigenic changes in gastric stromal myofibroblasts.
PXD010940	30814064	Integrative analysis of Paneth cell proteomic and transcriptomic data from intestinal organoids reveals functional processes dependent on autophagy. 	Integrative analysis of Paneth cell proteomic data from intestinal organoids reveals functional processes affected in Crohn's disease due to autophagy impairment	ATG16L1, Crohn's disease, Paneth cells, intestinal organoids, quantitative proteomics, selective autophagy	Paneth cells are key epithelial cells that provide an antimicrobial barrier and maintain integrity of the small-intestinal stem cell niche. Paneth cell abnormalities are unfortunately detrimental to gut health and are often associated with digestive pathologies such as Crohn's disease or infections. Similar alterations are observed in individuals with impaired autophagy, a process that recycles cellular components. The direct effect of autophagy impairment on Paneth cells has not been analysed. To investigate this, we generated a mouse model lacking Atg16l1 specifically in intestinal epithelial cells, making these cells impaired in autophagy. Using three-dimensional intestinal organoids enriched for Paneth cells, we compared the proteomic profiles of wild-type and autophagy-impaired organoids. We used an integrated computational approach combining protein-protein interaction networks, autophagy-targeted proteins and functional information to identify the mechanistic link between autophagy impairment and disrupted pathways. Of the 284 altered proteins, 198 (70%) were more abundant in autophagy-impaired organoids, suggesting reduced protein degradation. Interestingly, these differentially abundant proteins comprised 116 proteins (41%) that are predicted targets of the selective autophagy proteins p62, LC3 and ATG16L1. Our integrative analysis revealed autophagy-mediated mechanisms that degrade key proteins in Paneth cell functions, such as exocytosis, apoptosis and DNA damage repair. Transcriptomic profiling of additional organoids confirmed that 90% of the observed changes upon autophagy alteration have effects at the protein level, not on gene expression. We performed further validation experiments showing differential lysozyme secretion, confirming our computationally inferred downregulation of exocytosis. Our observations could explain how protein-level alterations affect Paneth cell homeostatic functions upon autophagy impairment.This article has an associated First Person interview with the joint first authors of the paper.
PXD012721	30814119	Dynamic BAF chromatin remodeling complex subunit inclusion promotes temporally distinct gene expression programs in cardiogenesis. 	Dynamic BAF chromatin remodeling complex subunit inclusion promotes temporally distinct gene expression programs in cardiogenesis	chromatin, differentiation, gene regulation, heart	Chromatin remodeling complexes instruct cellular differentiation and lineage specific transcription. The BRG1/BRM-associated factor (BAF) complexes are important for several aspects of differentiation. We show that the catalytic subunit gene Brg1 has a specific role in cardiac precursors (CPs) to initiate cardiac gene expression programs and repress non-cardiac expression. Using immunopurification with mass spectrometry, we have determined the dynamic composition of BAF complexes during mammalian cardiac differentiation, identifying several cell-type specific subunits. We focused on the CP- and cardiomyocyte (CM)-enriched subunits BAF60c (SMARCD3) and BAF170 (SMARCC2). Baf60c and Baf170 co-regulate gene expression with Brg1 in CPs, and in CMs their loss results in broadly deregulated cardiac gene expression. BRG1, BAF60c and BAF170 modulate chromatin accessibility, to promote accessibility at activated genes while closing chromatin at repressed genes. BAF60c and BAF170 are required for proper BAF complex composition, and BAF170 loss leads to retention of BRG1 at CP-specific sites. Thus, dynamic interdependent BAF complex subunit assembly modulates chromatin states and thereby participates in directing temporal gene expression programs in cardiogenesis.
PXD011958	30814596	Proteomic analysis reveals a protective role of specific macrophage subsets in liver repair. 	Proteomic analysis reveals a protective role of specific macrophage subsets in liver repair	Alox15, liver injury, macrophage	Macrophages are a heterogeneous population of immune cells that play central roles in a broad range of biological processes, including the resolution of inflammation. Although diverse macrophage subpopulations have been identified, the characterization and functional specialization of certain macrophage subsets in inflamed tissues remain unclear. Here we uncovered a key role of specific macrophage subsets in tissue repair using proteomics, bioinformatics and functional analysis. We isolated two hepatic monocyte-derived macrophage subpopulations: Ly6C(hi)CX3CR1(lo) macrophages and Ly6C(lo)CX3CR1(hi) macrophages during distinct phases of acute liver injury and employed label-free proteomics approach to profile the proteome of these cells. We found that the endocytosis- and apoptotic cell clearance-related proteins were specifically enriched in Ly6C(lo)CX3CR1(hi) macrophages at the resolution phase. Intriguingly, 12/15-lipoxygenase (Alox15), the most strongly up-regulated protein in Ly6C(lo)CX3CR1(hi) macrophages, was identified as a specific marker for these macrophages. In co-culture systems, Ly6C(lo)CX3CR1(hi) macrophages specifically induced hepatocyte proliferation. Furthermore, selective depletion of this population in CD11b-diphtheria toxin receptor mice significantly delayed liver repair. Overall, our studies shed light on the functional specialization of distinct macrophage subsets from different phases in the resolution of inflammation.
PXD011655	30814735	Colonic epithelial cell diversity in health and inflammatory bowel disease. 	Single-cell census of the colonic epithelium reveals goblet cell drivers of barrier breakdown in inflammatory bowel disease	Inflammatory Bowel Disease	The colonic epithelium facilitates host-microorganism interactions to control mucosal immunity, coordinate nutrient recycling and form a mucus barrier. Breakdown of the epithelial barrier underpins inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, the specific contributions of each epithelial-cell subtype to this process are unknown. Here we profile single colonic epithelial cells from patients with IBD and unaffected controls. We identify previously unknown cellular subtypes, including gradients of progenitor cells, colonocytes and goblet cells within intestinal crypts. At the top of the crypts, we find a previously unknown absorptive cell, expressing the proton channel OTOP2 and the satiety peptide uroguanylin, that senses pH and is dysregulated in inflammation and cancer. In IBD, we observe a positional remodelling of goblet cells that coincides with downregulation of WFDC2-an antiprotease molecule that we find to be expressed by goblet cells and that inhibits bacterial growth. In vivo, WFDC2 preserves the integrity of tight junctions between epithelial cells and prevents invasion by commensal bacteria and mucosal inflammation. We delineate markers and transcriptional states, identify a colonic epithelial cell and uncover fundamental determinants of barrier breakdown in IBD.
PXD010759	30814737	An integrative systems genetic analysis of mammalian lipid metabolism. 	Proteomic analysis of Psmd9 knockdown in the liver	PSMD9, ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP), liver	Dysregulation of lipid homeostasis is a precipitating event in the pathogenesis and progression of hepatosteatosis and metabolic syndrome. These conditions are highly prevalent in developed societies and currently have limited options for diagnostic and therapeutic intervention. Here, using a proteomic and lipidomic-wide systems genetic approach, we interrogated lipid regulatory networks in 107 genetically distinct mouse strains to reveal key insights into the control and network structure of mammalian lipid metabolism. These include the identification of plasma lipid signatures that predict pathological lipid abundance in the liver of mice and humans, defining subcellular localization and functionality of lipid-related proteins, and revealing functional protein and genetic variants that are predicted to modulate lipid abundance. Trans-omic analyses using these datasets facilitated the identification and validation of PSMD9 as a previously unknown lipid regulatory protein. Collectively, our study serves as a rich resource for probing mammalian lipid metabolism and provides opportunities for the discovery of therapeutic agents and biomarkers in the setting of hepatic lipotoxicity.
PXD008373	30814741	Proteomics identifies new therapeutic targets of early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Proteome Landscape of Early Stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma Identifies Proteomic Subtypes and New Therapeutic Targets - Phosphorylation data	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cancer (B/D-HPP), Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Human Proteome Project, Phosphoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP), Therapeutic Targets	Hepatocellular carcinoma is the third leading cause of deaths from cancer worldwide. Infection with the hepatitis B virus is one of the leading risk factors for developing hepatocellular carcinoma, particularly in East Asia(1). Although surgical treatment may be effective in the early stages, the five-year overall rate of survival after developing this cancer is only 50-70%(2). Here, using proteomic and phospho-proteomic profiling, we characterize 110 paired tumour and non-tumour tissues of clinical early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma related to hepatitis B virus infection. Our quantitative proteomic data highlight heterogeneity in early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma: we used this to stratify the cohort into the subtypes S-I, S-II and S-III, each of which has a different clinical outcome. S-III, which is characterized by disrupted cholesterol homeostasis, is associated with the lowest overall rate of survival and the greatest risk of a poor prognosis after first-line surgery. The knockdown of sterol O-acyltransferase 1 (SOAT1)-high expression of which is a signature specific to the S-III subtype-alters the distribution of cellular cholesterol, and effectively suppresses the proliferation and migration of hepatocellular carcinoma. Finally, on the basis of a patient-derived tumour xenograft mouse model of hepatocellular carcinoma, we found that treatment with avasimibe, an inhibitor of SOAT1, markedly reduced the size of tumours that had high levels of SOAT1 expression. The proteomic stratification of early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma presented in this study provides insight into the tumour biology of this cancer, and suggests opportunities for personalized therapies that target it.
PXD012259	30814930	Comparative Phosphoproteomic Profiling of Type III Adenylyl Cyclase Knockout and Control, Male, and Female Mice. 	Comparative Phosphoproteomic Profiling of Type III Adenylyl Cyclase Knockout and Control, Male and Female Mice Prefrontal Cortex	Adcy3, Gender-Biased, Phosphoproteomics	Type III adenylyl cyclase (AC3, ADCY3) is predominantly enriched in neuronal primary cilia throughout the central nervous system (CNS). Genome-wide association studies in humans have associated ADCY3 with major depressive disorder and autistic spectrum disorder, both of which exhibit sexual dimorphism. To date, it is unclear how AC3 affects protein phosphorylation and signal networks in central neurons, and what causes the sexual dimorphism of autism. We employed a mass spectrometry (MS)-based phosphoproteomic approach to quantitatively profile differences in phosphorylation between inducible AC3 knockout (KO) and wild type (WT), male and female mice. In total, we identified 4,655 phosphopeptides from 1,756 proteins, among which 565 phosphopeptides from 322 proteins were repetitively detected in all samples. Over 46% phosphopeptides were identified in at least three out of eight biological replicas. Comparison of AC3 KO and WT datasets revealed that phosphopeptides with motifs matching proline-directed kinases' recognition sites had a lower abundance in the KO dataset than in WTs. We detected 14 phosphopeptides restricted to WT dataset (i.e., Rabl6, Spast and Ppp1r14a) and 35 exclusively in KOs (i.e., Sptan1, Arhgap20, Arhgap44, and Pde1b). Moreover, 95 phosphopeptides (out of 90 proteins) were identified only in female dataset and 26 only in males. Label-free MS spectrum quantification using Skyline further identified phosphopeptides that had higher abundance in each sample group. In total, 204 proteins had sex-biased phosphorylation and 167 of them had increased expression in females relative to males. Interestingly, among the 204 gender-biased phosphoproteins, 31% were found to be associated with autism, including Dlg1, Dlgap2, Syn1, Syngap1, Ctnna1, Ctnnd1, Ctnnd2, Pkp4, and Arvcf. Therefore, this study also provides the first phosphoproteomics evidence suggesting that gender-biased post-translational phosphorylation may be implicated in the sexual dimorphism of autism.
PXD009377	30815237	Exploration of extracellular vesicles from Ascaris suum provides evidence of parasite-host cross talk. 	Dataset in support of Exploration of extracellular vesicles from Ascaris suum provides evidence of parasite-host cross talk	Ascaris suum, extracellular vesicles, host-parasite interactions, immunity, miRNA	The prevalent porcine helminth, Ascaris suum, compromises pig health and reduces farm productivity worldwide. The closely related human parasite, A. lumbricoides, infects more than 800 million people representing a disease burden of 1.31 million disability-adjusted life years. The infections are often chronic in nature, and the parasites have a profound ability to modulate their hosts' immune responses. This study provides the first in-depth characterisation of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from different developmental stages and body parts of A. suum and proposes the role of these vesicles in the host-parasite interplay. The release of EVs from the third- (L3) and fourth-stage (L4) larvae and adults was demonstrated by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and sequencing of EV-derived RNA identified a number of microRNAs (miRNAs) and transcripts of potential host immune targets, such as IL-13, IL-25 and IL-33, were identified. Furthermore, proteomics of EVs identified several proteins with immunomodulatory properties and other proteins previously shown to be associated with parasite EVs. Taken together, these results suggest that A. suum EVs and their cargo may play a role in host-parasite interactions. This knowledge may pave the way to novel strategies for helminth infection control and knowledge of their immune modulatory potential.
PXD007529	30816242	Comparative analysis of differentially secreted proteins in serum-free and serum-containing media by using BONCAT and pulsed SILAC. 	Enrichment and quantitation of newly secreted proteins under serum condition by combining BONCAT and pulsed SILAC	BONCAT, FBS, pulsed SILAC, secretome, serum	Despite the increased interest in secretomes associated with paracrine/autocrine mechanisms, the majority of mass spectrometric cell secretome studies have been performed using serum-free medium (SFM). On the other hand, serum-containing medium (SCM) is not recommended very much because the secretome obtained with SCM is easily contaminated with fetal bovine serum (FBS) proteins. In this study, through the combination of bioorthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) and pulsed-SILAC (pSILAC), we analyzed differentially secreted proteins between SFM and SCM in a cancer-derived human cell, U87MG, and a mesenchymal stem cell derived from human Wharton's jelly (hWJ-MSCs). In most cases, the bioinformatic tools predicted a protein to be truly secretory when the secretion level of the protein was more in SCM than in SFM. In the case of hWJ-MSCs, the amount of proteins secreted in SCM for 24 hours was larger than that of SFM (log2 fold change = 0.96), even considering different cell proliferation rates. hWJ-MSCs proteins secreted more in SCM included several positive markers of MSC paracrine factors implicated in angiogenesis, neurogenesis and osteogenesis, and upstream regulators of cell proliferation. Our study suggests the analysis of the secretome should be processed in SCM that promotes cell proliferation and secretion.
PXD010007	30822303	The temporal profile of activity-dependent presynaptic phospho-signalling reveals long-lasting patterns of poststimulus regulation. 	The temporal profile of activity-dependent presynaptic phospho-signalling reveals long lasting patterns of post-stimulus regulation	PP1, Phosphorylation, depolarization, kinase, neuron, phosphatase, post-stimulus, presynaptic, rat, signalling, synaptosome	Depolarization of presynaptic terminals stimulates calcium influx, which evokes neurotransmitter release and activates phosphorylation-based signalling. Here, we present the first global temporal profile of presynaptic activity-dependent phospho-signalling, which includes two KCl stimulation levels and analysis of the poststimulus period. We profiled 1,917 regulated phosphopeptides and bioinformatically identified six temporal patterns of co-regulated proteins. The presynaptic proteins with large changes in phospho-status were again prominently regulated in the analysis of 7,070 activity-dependent phosphopeptides from KCl-stimulated cultured hippocampal neurons. Active zone scaffold proteins showed a high level of activity-dependent phospho-regulation that far exceeded the response from postsynaptic density scaffold proteins. Accordingly, bassoon was identified as the major target of neuronal phospho-signalling. We developed a probabilistic computational method, KinSwing, which matched protein kinase substrate motifs to regulated phosphorylation sites to reveal underlying protein kinase activity. This approach allowed us to link protein kinases to profiles of co-regulated presynaptic protein networks. Ca2+- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha (CaMKIIalpha) responded rapidly, scaled with stimulus strength, and had long-lasting activity. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) was the main protein kinase predicted to control a distinct and significant pattern of poststimulus up-regulation of phosphorylation. This work provides a unique resource of activity-dependent phosphorylation sites of synaptosomes and neurons, the vast majority of which have not been investigated with regard to their functional impact. This resource will enable detailed characterization of the phospho-regulated mechanisms impacting the plasticity of neurotransmitter release.
PXD012720	30822327	Synovial fluid proteome changes in ACL injury-induced posttraumatic osteoarthritis: Proteomics analysis of porcine knee synovial fluid. 	Synovial fluid proteome changes in ACL injury-induced posttraumatic osteoarthritis: proteomics analysis of porcine knee synovial fluid	ACL Injury, Knee, PTOA, Porcine, Synovial Fluide	Surgical transection of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in the porcine model leads to posttraumatic osteoarthritis if left untreated. However, a recently developed surgical treatment, bridge-enhanced ACL repair, prevents further cartilage damage. Since the synovial fluid bathes all the intrinsic structures of knee, we reasoned that a comparative analysis of synovial fluid protein contents could help to better understand the observed chondroprotective effects of the bridge-enhanced ACL repair. We hypothesized that post-surgical changes in the synovial fluid proteome would be different in the untreated and repaired knees, and those changes would correlate with the degree of cartilage damage. Thirty adolescent Yucatan mini-pigs underwent unilateral ACL transection and were randomly assigned to either no further treatment (ACLT, n = 14) or bridge-enhanced ACL repair (BEAR, n = 16). We used an isotopically labeled high resolution LC MS/MS-based proteomics approach to analyze the protein profile of synovial fluid at 6 and 12 months after ACL transection in untreated and repaired porcine knees. A linear mixed effect model was used to compare the normalized protein abundance levels between the groups at each time point. Bivariate linear regression analyses were used to assess the correlations between the macroscopic cartilage damage (total lesion area) and normalized abundance levels of each of the identified secreted proteins. There were no significant differences in cartilage lesion area or quantitative abundance levels of the secreted proteins between the ACLT and BEAR groups at 6 months. However, by 12 months, greater cartilage damage was seen in the ACLT group compared to the BEAR group (p = 0.005). This damage was accompanied by differences in the abundance levels of secreted proteins, with higher levels of Vitamin K-dependent protein C (p = 0.001), and lower levels of Apolipoprotein A4 (p = 0.021) and Cartilage intermediate layer protein 1 (p = 0.049) in the ACLT group compared to the BEAR group. There were also group differences in the secreted proteins that significantly changed in abundance between 6 and 12 months in ACLT and BEAR knees. Increased concentration of Ig lambda-1 chain C regions and decreased concentration of Hemopexin, Clusterin, Coagulation factor 12 and Cartilage intermediate layer protein 1 were associated with greater cartilage lesion area. In general, ACLT knees had higher concentrations of pro-inflammatory proteins and lower concentrations of anti-inflammatory proteins than BEAR group. In addition, the ACLT group had a lower and declining synovial concentrations of CILP, in contrast to a consistently high abundance of CILP in repaired knees. These differences suggest that the knees treated with bridge-enhanced ACL repair may be maintaining an environment that is more protective of the extracellular matrix, a function which is not seen in the ACLT knees.
PXD011839	30824564	Plasma proteome profiling discovers novel proteins associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. 	Plasma proteome profiling discovers novel proteins associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease	biomarker discovery/ mass spectrometry/ NAFLD/ NASH/ plasma proteome profiling	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects 25% of the population and can progress to cirrhosis with limited treatment options. As the liver secretes most of the blood plasma proteins, liver disease may affect the plasma proteome. Plasma proteome profiling of 48 patients with and without cirrhosis or NAFLD revealed six statistically significantly changing proteins (ALDOB, APOM, LGALS3BP, PIGR, VTN, and AFM), two of which are already linked to liver disease. Polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR) was significantly elevated in both cohorts by 170% in NAFLD and 298% in cirrhosis and was further validated in mouse models. Furthermore, a global correlation map of clinical and proteomic data strongly associated DPP4, ANPEP, TGFBI, PIGR, and APOE with NAFLD and cirrhosis. The prominent diabetic drug target DPP4 is an aminopeptidase like ANPEP, ENPEP, and LAP3, all of which are up-regulated in the human or mouse data. Furthermore, ANPEP and TGFBI have potential roles in extracellular matrix remodeling in fibrosis. Thus, plasma proteome profiling can identify potential biomarkers and drug targets in liver disease.
PXD008353	30824683	Quantitative proteomic analyses of dynamic signalling events in cortical neurons undergoing excitotoxic cell death. 	Dynamic changes in proteome and phosphoproteome following glutamate excitotoxicity in cultured primary cortical neurons	Neuron, excitotoxicity, phosphoproteome	Excitotoxicity, caused by overstimulation or dysregulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs), is a pathological process directing neuronal death in many neurological disorders. The aberrantly stimulated iGluRs direct massive influx of calcium ions into the affected neurons, leading to changes in expression and phosphorylation of specific proteins to modulate their functions and direct their participation in the signalling pathways that induce excitotoxic neuronal death. To define these pathways, we used quantitative proteomic approaches to identify these neuronal proteins (referred to as the changed proteins) and determine how their expression and/or phosphorylation dynamically changed in association with excitotoxic cell death. Our data, available in ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008353, identified over 100 changed proteins exhibiting significant alterations in abundance and/or phosphorylation levels at different time points (5-240 min) in neurons after glutamate overstimulation. Bioinformatic analyses predicted that many of them are components of signalling networks directing defective neuronal morphology and functions. Among them, the well-known neuronal survival regulators including mitogen-activated protein kinases Erk1/2, glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) and microtubule-associated protein (Tau), were selected for validation by biochemical approaches, which confirmed the findings of the proteomic analysis. Bioinformatic analysis predicted Protein Kinase B (Akt), c-Jun kinase (JNK), cyclin-dependent protein kinase 5 (Cdk5), MAP kinase kinase (MEK), Casein kinase 2 (CK2), Rho-activated protein kinase (Rock) and Serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 (SGK1) as the potential upstream kinases phosphorylating some of the changed proteins. Further biochemical investigation confirmed the predictions of sustained changes of the activation states of neuronal Akt and CK2 in excitotoxicity. Thus, future investigation to define the signalling pathways directing the dynamic alterations in abundance and phosphorylation of the identified changed neuronal proteins will help elucidate the molecular mechanism of neuronal death in excitotoxicity.
PXD009571	30824702	Purification of cross-linked RNA-protein complexes by phenol-toluol extraction. 	Purification of Cross-linked RNA-Protein Complexes by Phenol-Toluol Extraction	PTex, RNA-binding proteins, Salmonella, shotgun	Recent methodological advances allowed the identification of an increasing number of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and their RNA-binding sites. Most of those methods rely, however, on capturing proteins associated to polyadenylated RNAs which neglects RBPs bound to non-adenylate RNA classes (tRNA, rRNA, pre-mRNA) as well as the vast majority of species that lack poly-A tails in their mRNAs (including all archea and bacteria). We have developed the Phenol Toluol extraction (PTex) protocol that does not rely on a specific RNA sequence or motif for isolation of cross-linked ribonucleoproteins (RNPs), but rather purifies them based entirely on their physicochemical properties. PTex captures RBPs that bind to RNA as short as 30 nt, RNPs directly from animal tissue and can be used to simplify complex workflows such as PAR-CLIP. Finally, we provide a global RNA-bound proteome of human HEK293 cells and the bacterium Salmonella Typhimurium.
PXD011855	30824935	Identification of a non-canonical chondroitin sulfate linkage region trisaccharide. 	Identification of a chondroitin sulfate linkage region trisaccharide	HCD, LC-MS, Orbitrap, bikunin, chondroitin sulfate, glycosaminoglycan, negative ionisation mode	It is generally accepted that the biosynthesis of chondroitin sulfate and heparan sulfate is proceeding from a common linkage region tetrasaccharide comprising GlcA-Gal-Gal-Xyl-O-. The linkage region can undergo various modifications such as sulfation, phosphorylation and sialylation, and as the methods for studying glycosaminoglycan structure have been developed and refined, the number of discovered modifications has increased. Previous studies on the linkage region and the glycosyltransferases involved in the biosynthesis suggest that variants of the linkage region tetrasaccharide may also be possible. Here, using LC-MS/MS, we describe a non-canonical linkage region trisaccharide comprising GlcA-Gal-Xyl-O-. The trisaccharide was identified as a minor constituent in the proteoglycan bikunin from urine of human healthy donors present as a disulfated pentasaccharide, DeltaHexA-GalNAc(S)-GlcA-Gal(S)-Xyl-O-, after chondroitinase ABC degradation. Furthermore, it was present as the corresponding disulfated pentasaccharide after chondroitinase ABC degradation in chondroitin sulfate primed on xylosides isolated from human cell lines. This linkage region trisaccharide may serve as an alternative point of entry for glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis.
PXD012088	30825662	Comparative analysis of the high molecular mass subproteomes of eight Bothrops snake venoms. 	Comparative analysis of high molecular mass subproteomes of Bothrops snake venoms	Snake venom, enzymes	Snake venoms are extremely active biological secretions composed primarily of various classes of enzymes. The genus Bothrops comprises various pit viper species that represent the most medically significant taxa in Central and South America, accounting for more human envenomations and fatalities than any other snakes in the region. Venom proteomes of many Bothrops species have been well-characterized but investigations have focused almost exclusively on proteins smaller than 100 kDa despite expression of larger components being documented in several Bothrops venoms. This study sought to achieve detailed identification of major components in the high molecular mass subproteome of venoms from eight Bothrops species (B. brazili, B. cotiara, B. insularis, B. jararaca, B. jararacussu, B. leucurus, B. moojeni and B. neuwiedi). Enzymes such as metalloproteinases and L-amino acid oxidases were the most prominent components identified in the first size-exclusion chromatography fractions of these venoms. Minor components also identified in the first peaks included 5'-nucleotidase, aminopeptidase, phosphodiesterase, and phospholipases A2 and B. Most of these components disappeared in electrophoretic profiles under reducing conditions, suggesting that they may be composed of more than one polypeptide chain. A significant shift in the molecular masses of these protein bands was observed following enzymatic N-deglycosylation, indicating that they may contain N-glycans. Furthermore, none of the identified high molecular mass proteins were shared by all eight species, revealing a high level of interspecific variability among these venom components.
PXD006905	30827088	Microsampling Capillary Electrophoresis Mass Spectrometry Enables Single-Cell Proteomics in Complex Tissues: Developing Cell Clones in Live Xenopus laevis and Zebrafish Embryos. 	Single-cell Proteomics of Developing Cells in Live Vertebrate Embryos by Microprobe High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry	LFQ, Orbitrap, Q-Exactive Plus, Single cell analysis, Xenopus, blastomere, capillary electrophoresis, electrospray ionization, embryo, label free quantification	Label-free single-cell proteomics by mass spectrometry (MS) is currently incompatible with complex tissues without requiring cell culturing, single-cell dissection, or tissue dissociation. We here report the first example of label-free single-cell MS-based proteomics directly in single cells in live vertebrate embryos. Our approach integrates optically guided in situ subcellular capillary microsampling, one-pot extraction-digestion of the collected proteins, peptide separation by capillary electrophoresis, ionization by an ultrasensitive electrokinetically pumped nanoelectrospray, and detection by high-resolution MS (Orbitrap). With a 700 zmol (420 000 copies) lower limit of detection, this trace-sensitive technology confidently identified and quantified ~750-800 protein groups (<1% false-discovery rate) by analyzing just ~5 ng of protein digest, viz. <0.05% of the total protein content from individual cells in a 16-cell Xenopus laevis (frog) embryo. After validating the approach by recovering animal-vegetal-pole proteomic asymmetry in the frog zygote, the technology was applied to uncover proteomic reorganization as the animal-dorsal (D11) cell of the 16-cell embryo gave rise to its neural-tissue-fated clone in the embryo developing to the 32-, 64-, and 128-cell stages. In addition to enabling proteomics on smaller cells in X. laevis, we also demonstrated this technology to be scalable to single cells in live zebrafish embryos. Microsampling single-cell MS-based proteomics raises exciting opportunities to study cell and developmental processes directly in complex tissues and whole organisms at the level of the building block of life: the cell.
PXD006647	30827875	SQSTM1/p62-Directed Metabolic Reprogramming Is Essential for Normal Neurodifferentiation. 	SQSTM1/p62-directed metabolic reprogramming is essential for normal neurodifferentiation	SQSTM1, hypoxia, mitochondria, mitophagy, neurodifferentiation, neuroepithelial-like stem cells, neuronal development, oxidative stress, p62	Neurodegenerative disorders are an increasingly common and irreversible burden on society, often affecting the aging population, but their etiology and disease mechanisms are poorly understood. Studying monogenic neurodegenerative diseases with known genetic cause provides an opportunity to understand cellular mechanisms also affected in more complex disorders. We recently reported that loss-of-function mutations in the autophagy adaptor protein SQSTM1/p62 lead to a slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease presenting in childhood. To further elucidate the neuronal involvement, we studied the cellular consequences of loss of p62 in a neuroepithelial stem cell (NESC) model and differentiated neurons derived from reprogrammed p62 patient cells or by CRISPR/Cas9-directed gene editing in NESCs. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses suggest that p62 is essential for neuronal differentiation by controlling the metabolic shift from aerobic glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation required for neuronal maturation. This shift is blocked by the failure to sufficiently downregulate lactate dehydrogenase expression due to the loss of p62, possibly through impaired Hif-1alpha downregulation and increased sensitivity to oxidative stress. The findings imply an important role for p62 in neuronal energy metabolism and particularly in the regulation of the shift between glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation required for normal neurodifferentiation.
PXD007212	30827889	Inhibition of Nuclear PTEN Tyrosine Phosphorylation Enhances Glioma Radiation Sensitivity through Attenuated DNA Repair. 	Inhibition of nuclear PTEN tyrosine phosphorylation enhances glioma radiation sensitivity through attenuated DNA repair	DNA Repair, Glioblastoma, PTEN	Ionizing radiation (IR) and chemotherapy are standard-of-care treatments for glioblastoma (GBM) patients and both result in DNA damage, however, the clinical efficacy is limited due to therapeutic resistance. We identified a mechanism of such resistance mediated by phosphorylation of PTEN on tyrosine 240 (pY240-PTEN) by FGFR2. pY240-PTEN is rapidly elevated and bound to chromatin through interaction with Ki-67 in response to IR treatment and facilitates the recruitment of RAD51 to promote DNA repair. Blocking Y240 phosphorylation confers radiation sensitivity to tumors and extends survival in GBM preclinical models. Y240F-Pten knockin mice showed radiation sensitivity. These results suggest that FGFR-mediated pY240-PTEN is a key mechanism of radiation resistance and is an actionable target for improving radiotherapy efficacy.
PXD012478	30827932	Anti alpha-enolase antibody is a novel autoimmune biomarker for unexplained recurrent miscarriages. 	Targets of anti-trophoblast antibodies	Unexplained recurrent miscarriages / anti-trophoblast antibodies / JEG-3 cells / anti-alpha-Enolase antibodies	BACKGROUND: We recently demonstrated the increased abundance of anti-trophoblast antibodies (ATAB) in sera of patients with unexplained recurrent miscarriages (uRM). Further, the ATAB-positive sera bound to JEG-3 human choriocarcinoma cells in vitro, resulting in decreased productions of beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG) and progesterone in these cells. However, the specific antigenic epitopes of ATAB have remained unknown. Therefore, it was the aim of this study to determine specific targets of ATAB in uRM patients. METHODS: Potential targets of ATAB were analyzed by 2-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) and mass spectrometry, and thereby identifying alpha-Enolase (ENO1). ATAB targeting of ENO1 was further confirmed in a competitive binding assay. Levels of anti-ENO1 antibodies as well as beta-hCG and progesterone were quantified with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Additionally, expression of ENO1 was analyzed in first trimester placentas by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence analysis. FINDINGS: We here identified ENO1 as a prominent target of ATAB. Serum levels of anti-ENO1 antibodies were increased in ATAB-positive compared to ATAB-negative patients. Further, increased expression of ENO1 and its co-expression with beta-arrestin was found in the extra villous trophoblasts of uRM patients in first trimester placentas. In vitro, anti-ENO1 antibodies decreased the secretion of beta-hCG and progesterone in JEG-3 and primary human villous trophoblast cells. INTERPRETATION: Serum anti-ENO1 antibodies might be an autoimmune biomarker for uRM. Targeting the formation of anti-ENO1 antibodies or inhibition of ENO1 expression could potentially represent therapeutic strategies for these patients. FUND: All authors declare no conflict of interest. Yao Ye was supported by the China Scholarship Council. Hellen Ishikawa-Ankerhold and Christian Schulz were supported by the SFB914, projects Z01 and A10. None of the rest authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
PXD012061	30828972	The stoichiometry and interactome of the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase (NuRD) complex are conserved across multiple cell lines. 	Comparison of the composition and interaction partners of the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase (NuRD) complex in cancer cells	NuRD, iBAQ, interactome, shotgun proteomics, stoichiometry	The nucleosome remodelling and deacetylase complex (NuRD) is a widely conserved regulator of gene expression. The determination of the subunit composition of the complex and identification of its binding partners are important steps towards understanding its architecture and function. The question of how these properties of the complex vary across different cell types has not been addressed in detail to date. Here, we set up a two-step purification protocol coupled to liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to assess NuRD composition and interaction partners in three different cancer cell lines, using label-free intensity-based absolute quantification (iBAQ). Our data indicate that the stoichiometry of the NuRD complex is preserved across our three different cancer cell lines. In addition, our interactome data suggest ZNF219 and SLC25A5 as possible interaction partners of the complex. To corroborate this latter finding, in vitro and cell-based pull-down experiments were carried out. These experiments indicated that ZNF219 can interact with RBBP4, GATAD2A/B and chromodomain helicase DNA binding 4, whereas SLC25A5 might interact with MTA2 and GATAD2A.
PXD012148	30829647	Glomerular filtrate proteins in acute cardiorenal syndrome. 	Glomerular filtrate proteins in acute cardiorenal syndrome	Kidney, acute cardiorenal syndrome, glomerular filtrate, nanoproteomics	Acute cardiorenal syndrome (CRS-1) is a morbid complication of acute cardiovascular disease. Heart-to-kidney signals transmitted by "cardiorenal connectors" have been postulated, but investigation into CRS-1 has been limited by technical limitations and a paucity of models. To address these limitations, we developed a translational model of CRS-1, cardiac arrest and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CA/CPR), and now report findings from nanoscale mass spectrometry proteomic exploration of glomerular filtrate 2 hours after CA/CPR or sham procedure. Filtrate acquisition was confirmed by imaging, molecular weight and charge distribution, and exclusion of protein specific to surrounding cells. Filtration of proteins specific to the heart was detected following CA/CPR and confirmed with mass spectrometry performed using urine collections from mice with deficient tubular endocytosis. Cardiac LIM protein was a CA/CPR-specific filtrate component. Cardiac arrest induced plasma release of cardiac LIM protein in mice and critically ill human cardiac arrest survivors, and administration of recombinant cardiac LIM protein to mice altered renal function. These findings demonstrate that glomerular filtrate is accessible to nanoscale proteomics and elucidate the population of proteins filtered 2 hours after CA/CPR. The identification of cardiac-specific proteins in renal filtrate suggests a novel signaling mechanism in CRS-1. We expect these findings to advance understanding of CRS-1.
PXD012171	30831029	Proteomic Identification of Protein Glutathionylation in Cardiomyocytes. 	Site-specific Identification of Glutathionylation	Affinity Purification, Glutathionylation, PTM	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are important signaling molecules, but their overproduction is associated with many cardiovascular diseases, including cardiomyopathy. ROS induce various oxidative modifications, among which glutathionylation is one of the significant protein oxidations that occur under oxidative stress. Despite previous efforts, direct and site-specific identification of glutathionylated proteins in cardiomyocytes has been limited. In this report, we used a clickable glutathione approach in a HL-1 mouse cardiomyocyte cell line under exposure to hydrogen peroxide, finding 1763 glutathionylated peptides with specific Cys modification sites, which include many muscle-specific proteins. Bioinformatic and cluster analyses found 125 glutathionylated proteins, whose mutations or dysfunctions are associated with cardiomyopathy, many of which include sarcomeric structural and contractile proteins, chaperone, and other signaling or regulatory proteins. We further provide functional implication of glutathionylation for several identified proteins, including CSRP3/MLP and complex I, II, and III, by analyzing glutathionylated sites in their structures. Our report establishes a chemoselective method for direct identification of glutathionylated proteins and provides potential target proteins whose glutathionylation may contribute to muscle diseases.
PXD010756	30833305	NrCAM is a marker for substrate-selective activation of ADAM10 in Alzheimer's disease. 	Proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of acitretin treated patients	Alzheimer disease, CSF, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), acitretin	The metalloprotease ADAM10 is a drug target in Alzheimer's disease, where it cleaves the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and lowers amyloid-beta. Yet, ADAM10 has additional substrates, which may cause mechanism-based side effects upon therapeutic ADAM10 activation. However, they may also serve-in addition to APP-as biomarkers to monitor ADAM10 activity in patients and to develop APP-selective ADAM10 activators. Our study demonstrates that one such substrate is the neuronal cell adhesion protein NrCAM ADAM10 controlled NrCAM surface levels and regulated neurite outgrowth in vitro in an NrCAM-dependent manner. However, ADAM10 cleavage of NrCAM, in contrast to APP, was not stimulated by the ADAM10 activator acitretin, suggesting that substrate-selective ADAM10 activation may be feasible. Indeed, a whole proteome analysis of human CSF from a phase II clinical trial showed that acitretin, which enhanced APP cleavage by ADAM10, spared most other ADAM10 substrates in brain, including NrCAM Taken together, this study demonstrates an NrCAM-dependent function for ADAM10 in neurite outgrowth and reveals that a substrate-selective, therapeutic ADAM10 activation is possible and may be monitored with NrCAM.
PXD008355	30833711	Capturing the phosphorylation and protein interaction landscape of the plant TOR kinase. 	A systematic phosphoproteome screen to identify targets of the Target of Rapamycin (TOR) kinase in Arabidopsis thaliana	AZD8055, Target of Rapamycin (TOR), cell culture, label-free quantitative MS, phosphoproteomics, rapamycin, sucrose	The target of rapamycin (TOR) kinase is a conserved regulatory hub that translates environmental and nutritional information into permissive or restrictive growth decisions. Despite the increased appreciation of the essential role of the TOR complex in plants, no large-scale phosphoproteomics or interactomics studies have been performed to map TOR signalling events in plants. To fill this gap, we combined a systematic phosphoproteomics screen with a targeted protein complex analysis in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Integration of the phosphoproteome and protein complex data on the one hand shows that both methods reveal complementary subspaces of the plant TOR signalling network, enabling proteome-wide discovery of both upstream and downstream network components. On the other hand, the overlap between both data sets reveals a set of candidate direct TOR substrates. The integrated network embeds both evolutionarily-conserved and plant-specific TOR signalling components, uncovering an intriguing complex interplay with protein synthesis. Overall, the network provides a rich data set to start addressing fundamental questions about how TOR controls key processes in plants, such as autophagy, auxin signalling, chloroplast development, lipid metabolism, nucleotide biosynthesis, protein translation or senescence.
PXD010034	30833759	A novel protein domain in an ancestral splicing factor drove the evolution of neural microexons. 	Origin and evolution of neural microexons	microexon, nuclear extract, ribonucleoprotein complex	The mechanisms by which entire programmes of gene regulation emerged during evolution are poorly understood. Neuronal microexons represent the most conserved class of alternative splicing in vertebrates, and are critical for proper brain development and function. Here, we discover neural microexon programmes in non-vertebrate species and trace their origin to bilaterian ancestors through the emergence of a previously uncharacterized 'enhancer of microexons' (eMIC) protein domain. The eMIC domain originated as an alternative, neural-enriched splice isoform of the pan-eukaryotic Srrm2/SRm300 splicing factor gene, and subsequently became fixed in the vertebrate and neuronal-specific splicing regulator Srrm4/nSR100 and its paralogue Srrm3. Remarkably, the eMIC domain is necessary and sufficient for microexon splicing, and functions by interacting with the earliest components required for exon recognition. The emergence of a novel domain with restricted expression in the nervous system thus resulted in the evolution of splicing programmes that qualitatively expanded the neuronal molecular complexity in bilaterians.
PXD012377	30833788	A folded conformation of MukBEF and cohesin. 	A folded conformation of MukBEF and Cohesin	DNA translocation, MukBEF, SMC proteins, Structural Maintenance of Chromosomes, cohesin, condensin, crosslinking, kleisin, loop extrusion	Structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC)-kleisin complexes organize chromosomal DNAs in all domains of life, with key roles in chromosome segregation, DNA repair and regulation of gene expression. They function through the entrapment and active translocation of DNA, but the underlying conformational changes are largely unclear. Using structural biology, mass spectrometry and cross-linking, we investigated the architecture of two evolutionarily distant SMC-kleisin complexes: MukBEF from Escherichia coli, and cohesin from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We show that both contain a dynamic coiled-coil discontinuity, the elbow, near the middle of their arms that permits a folded conformation. Bending at the elbow brings into proximity the hinge dimerization domain and the head-kleisin module, situated at opposite ends of the arms. Our findings favour SMC activity models that include a large conformational change in the arms, such as a relative movement between DNA contact sites during DNA loading and translocation.
PXD012274	30833792	A protein-interaction network of interferon-stimulated genes extends the innate immune system landscape. 	Global Interferon-stimulated Genes Interactome Network	AP-LC-MS/MS, IFN, ISG interactome	Interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) form the backbone of the innate immune system and are important for limiting intra- and intercellular viral replication and spread. We conducted a mass-spectrometry-based survey to understand the fundamental organization of the innate immune system and to explore the molecular functions of individual ISGs. We identified interactions between 104 ISGs and 1,401 cellular binding partners engaging in 2,734 high-confidence interactions. 90% of these interactions are unreported so far, and our survey therefore illuminates a far wider activity spectrum of ISGs than is currently known. Integration of the resulting ISG-interaction network with published datasets and functional studies allowed us to identify regulators of immunity and processes related to the immune system. Given the extraordinary robustness of the innate immune system, this ISG network may serve as a blueprint for therapeutic targeting of cellular systems to efficiently fight viral infections.
PXD010525	30833939	Differential View on the Bile Acid Stress Response of Clostridioides difficile. 	Differential view on the bile acids stress response of Clostridioides difficile_longterm stress	Clostridioides difficile, bile acids, differential analysis, flagella, general and specific stress response, motility	Clostridioides difficile is an intestinal human pathogen that uses the opportunity of a depleted microbiota to cause an infection. It is known, that the composition of the intestinal bile acid cocktail has a great impact on the susceptibility toward a C. difficile infection. However, the specific response of growing C. difficile cells to diverse bile acids on the molecular level has not been described yet. In this study, we recorded proteome signatures of shock and long-term (LT) stress with the four main bile acids cholic acid (CA), chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), deoxycholic acid (DCA), and lithocholic acid (LCA). A general overlapping response to all tested bile acids could be determined particularly in shock experiments which appears plausible in the light of their common steroid structure. However, during LT stress several proteins showed an altered abundance in the presence of only a single or a few of the bile acids indicating the existence of specific adaptation mechanisms. Our results point at a differential induction of the groEL and dnaKJgrpE chaperone systems, both belonging to the class I heat shock genes. Additionally, central metabolic pathways involving butyrate fermentation and the reductive Stickland fermentation of leucine were effected, although CA caused a proteome signature different from the other three bile acids. Furthermore, quantitative proteomics revealed a loss of flagellar proteins in LT stress with LCA. The absence of flagella could be substantiated by electron microscopy which also indicated less flagellated cells in the presence of DCA and CDCA and no influence on flagella formation by CA. Our data break down the bile acid stress response of C. difficile into a general and a specific adaptation. The latter cannot simply be divided into a response to primary and secondary bile acids, but rather reflects a complex and variable adaptation process enabling C. difficile to survive and to cause an infection in the intestinal tract.
PXD009725	30833950	Proteomic Analysis of Arabidopsis pldalpha1 Mutants Revealed an Important Role of Phospholipase D Alpha 1 in Chloroplast Biogenesis. 	Proteomic analysis of Arabidopsis plda1 mutants	Arabidopsis plda1 mutants	Phospholipase D alpha 1 (PLDalpha1) is a phospholipid hydrolyzing enzyme playing multiple regulatory roles in stress responses of plants. Its signaling activity is mediated by phosphatidic acid (PA) production, capacity to bind, and modulate G-protein complexes or by interaction with other proteins. This work presents a quantitative proteomic analysis of two T-DNA insertion pldalpha1 mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana. Remarkably, PLDalpha1 knockouts caused differential regulation of many proteins forming protein complexes, while PLDalpha1 might be required for their stability. Almost one third of differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in pldalpha1 mutants are implicated in metabolism and RNA binding. Latter functional class comprises proteins involved in translation, RNA editing, processing, stability, and decay. Many of these proteins, including those regulating chloroplast protein import and protein folding, share common functions in chloroplast biogenesis and leaf variegation. Consistently, pldalpha1 mutants showed altered level of TIC40 (a major regulator of protein import into chloroplast), differential accumulation of photosynthetic protein complexes and changed chloroplast sizes as revealed by immunoblotting, blue-native electrophoresis, and microscopic analyses, respectively. Our proteomic analysis also revealed that genetic depletion of PLDalpha1 also affected proteins involved in cell wall architecture, redox homeostasis, and abscisic acid signaling. Taking together, PLDalpha1 appears as a protein integrating cytosolic and plastidic protein translations, plastid protein degradation, and protein import into chloroplast in order to regulate chloroplast biogenesis in Arabidopsis.
PXD012313	30835130	Distinct Metabolic Features of Seminoma and Embryonal Carcinoma Revealed by Combined Transcriptome and Metabolome Analyses. 	Distinctive metabolic features of seminoma and embryonic carcinoma revealed by combined transcriptome and metabolomics analyses	Metabolomics of testicular germ cell tumors	Seminoma and embryonal carcinoma (EC), two typical types of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs), present significant differences in growth behavior, expression characteristics, differentiation potential, clinical features, therapy, and prognosis. The purpose of this study was to compare the distinctive or preference metabolic pathways between seminoma and EC. The Cancer Genome Atlas revealed that many genes encoding metabolic enzymes could distinguish between seminoma and EC. Using well-characterized cell line models for seminoma (Tcam-2 cells) and EC (NT2 cells), we characterized their metabolite profiles using ultraperformance liquid chromatography coupled to Q-TOF mass spectrometry (UPLC/Q-TOF MS). In general, the integrated results from transcriptome and metabolite profiling revealed that seminoma and EC exhibited distinctive characteristics in the metabolisms of amino acids, glucose, fatty acids, sphingolipids, nucleotides, and drugs. Notably, an attenuation of citric acid cycle/mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and sphingolipid biosynthesis as well as an increase in arachidonic acid metabolism and (very) long-chain fatty acid abundance occurred in seminoma as compared with EC. Our study suggests histologic subtype-dependent metabolic reprogramming in TGCTs and will lead to a better understanding of the metabolic signatures and biology of TGCT subtypes.
PXD009780	30836961	Autocrine motility factor promotes endometrial cancer progression by targeting GPER-1. 	Autocrine Motility Factor Modulates Proliferation Signaling Mediated By GPER	endometrial cancer	BACKGROUND: Autocrine motility factor (AMF) is a critical factor regulating aggressiveness of endometrial cancer (EC). Multiple pieces of evidence indicate that it is through G protein coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) signaling pathway that some growth factors promoted the migration and proliferation of tumor cells. The aim of this study is to explore the role of GPER-1 in AMF mediated regulatory mechanisms of EC recurrence and progression. METHODS: Real-Time Cell Analysis (RTCA) assays were performed to assess whether AMF depends on Autocrine motility factor recepter (AMFR) signaling in EC cells. A genome-wide expression microarray and Yeast Two-Hybrid assay were used to detect AMF and GPER-1 interaction in the context of AMFR depletion, and co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence experiments were performed to confirm the physical interaction. Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantification (iTRAQ) analysis was used for the identification of the target pathway activated by AMF-GPER-1 interaction. Cohorts of mice harboring xenografts derived from modified SPEC2 cell lines were treated with or without exogenous AMF to validate the results of previous experiments. Immunohistochemistry was performed to assess AMF and GPER-1 expression in endometrial cancer specimens and normal endometrium. RESULTS: Our data showed that GPER-1 binds to AMF and the formed complex translocates from the plasma membrane to the cytoplasm. Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that interaction between AMF and GPER-1 triggers phosphoinositide-3-kinase signaling and promotes EC cell growth. More importantly, through animal experiments and human tissue experiments, we found that AMF contributes to GPER-1-mediated EC progression, which is consistent with the above observations. CONCLUSIONS: Our work not only delineated the regulatory mechanisms of endometrial cancer progression by AMF-GPER-1-AKT signaling cascade but also laid the foundation of targeting this pathway for treating endometrial cancer.
PXD009994	30837475	Analysis of human acetylation stoichiometry defines mechanistic constraints on protein regulation. 	Analysis of human acetylation stoichiometry defines mechanistic constraints on protein regulation	HeLa, acetylation, acetylome, stoichiometry	Lysine acetylation is a reversible posttranslational modification that occurs at thousands of sites on human proteins. However, the stoichiometry of acetylation remains poorly characterized, and is important for understanding acetylation-dependent mechanisms of protein regulation. Here we provide accurate, validated measurements of acetylation stoichiometry at 6829 sites on 2535 proteins in human cervical cancer (HeLa) cells. Most acetylation occurs at very low stoichiometry (median 0.02%), whereas high stoichiometry acetylation (>1%) occurs on nuclear proteins involved in gene transcription and on acetyltransferases. Analysis of acetylation copy numbers show that histones harbor the majority of acetylated lysine residues in human cells. Class I deacetylases target a greater proportion of high stoichiometry acetylation compared to SIRT1 and HDAC6. The acetyltransferases CBP and p300 catalyze a majority (65%) of high stoichiometry acetylation. This resource dataset provides valuable information for evaluating the impact of individual acetylation sites on protein function and for building accurate mechanistic models.
PXD006778	30837482	Succinyl-proteome profiling of Pyricularia oryzae, a devastating phytopathogenic fungus that causes rice blast disease. 	First Comprehensive Proteome Analyses of Lysine Succinylation in Physalis angulata, a medicinal plant with a high pharmaceutical value	Physalis angulata, Succinylation	Pyricularia oryzae is the pathogen for rice blast disease, which is a devastating threat to rice production worldwide. Lysine succinylation, a newly identified post-translational modification, is associated with various cellular processes. Here, liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry combined with a high-efficiency succinyl-lysine antibody was used to identify the succinylated peptides in P. oryzae. In total, 2109 lysine succinylation sites in 714 proteins were identified. Ten conserved succinylation sequence patterns were identified, among which, K*******K(suc), and K**K(suc), were two most preferred ones. The frequency of lysine succinylation sites, however, greatly varied among organisms, including plants, animals, and microbes. Interestingly, the numbers of succinylation site in each protein of P. oryzae were significantly greater than that of most previous published organisms. Gene ontology and KEGG analysis showed that these succinylated peptides are associated with a wide range of cellular functions, from metabolic processes to stimuli responses. Further analyses determined that lysine succinylation occurs on several key enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and glycolysis pathway, indicating that succinylation may play important roles in the regulation of basal metabolism in P. oryzae. Furthermore, more than 40 pathogenicity-related proteins were identified as succinylated proteins, suggesting an involvement of succinylation in pathogenicity. Our results provide the first comprehensive view of the P. oryzae succinylome and may aid to find potential pathogenicity-related proteins to control the rice blast disease. Significance Plant pathogens represent a great threat to world food security, and enormous reduction in the global yield of rice was caused by P. oryzae infection. Here, the succinylated proteins in P. oryzae were identified. Furthermore, comparison of succinylation sites among various species, indicating that different degrees of succinylation may be involved in the regulation of basal metabolism. This data facilitates our understanding of the metabolic pathways and proteins that are associated with pathogenicity.
PXD011768	30837665	Differential miRNA expression profile and proteome in plasma exosomes from patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. 	Exosomes -  Differential miRNA expression profile and proteome in plasma exosomes from patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria	Shotgun proteomics, TMT, exosomes	Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH) is a clonal disease of blood cells caused by the lack of glycosyl phosphatidyl inositol anchored proteins bound to the cell membrane. In consequence, erythrocytes lead to intravascular hemolysis upon complement activation, which promotes high risk of thrombosis, intravascular hemolytic anemia, and bone marrow failure in patients. The mechanisms of thrombosis in PNH are still poorly understood. Treatment with eculizumab reduces intravascular hemolysis and thrombotic risk, but not in all cases. Exosomes are extracellular vesicles released by cells and whose secretion is closely related to the inflammatory status. They participate in cell communication by activating signaling pathways and transferring genetic material and proteins to host cells. In consequence, exosomes may serve as surrogate biomarkers for the prognosis and/or diagnosis of a disease. Isolation of exosomes was carried out from healthy controls and from three groups of PNH patients, i.e. i) with no eculizumab treatment; ii) under treatment with eculizumab that have not suffered thrombosis; and iii) under treatment with eculizumab but that have suffered thrombosis. The miRNAome and proteome was analyzed using plasma focus miRNAs PCR panel and LC-MS analysis respectively. We found differential expression of miRNAs miR-148b-3p, miR-423-3p, miR29b-3p, miR15b-5p, let-7e-5p, miR126-3p, miR-125b-5p and miR-376c-3p as well as hemoglobin, haptoglobin, protein S and C4-binding protein in healthy controls vs PNH patients. Our results warrant further research and provide new information on the content of exosomes that could play a role in the hypercoagulable state in this disease.
PXD008017	30837968	More Is Not Always Better: Evaluation of 1D and 2D-LC-MS/MS Methods for Metaproteomics. 	More is not always better: Evaluation of 1D- and 2D-LC-MS2 methods for metaproteomics	GeLC, Metaproteomics, Q Exactive, liquid chromatography, method evaluation, microbial community, microbial ecology, microbiome, microbiota, mock community	Metaproteomics, the study of protein expression in microbial communities, is a versatile tool for environmental microbiology. Achieving sufficiently high metaproteome coverage to obtain a comprehensive picture of the activities and interactions in microbial communities is one of the current challenges in metaproteomics. An essential step to maximize the number of identified proteins is peptide separation via liquid chromatography (LC) prior to mass spectrometry (MS). Thorough optimization and comparison of LC methods for metaproteomics are, however, currently lacking. Here, we present an extensive development and test of different 1D and 2D-LC approaches for metaproteomic peptide separations. We used fully characterized mock community samples to evaluate metaproteomic approaches with very long analytical columns (50 and 75 cm) and long gradients (up to 12 h). We assessed a total of over 20 different 1D and 2D-LC approaches in terms of number of protein groups and unique peptides identified, peptide spectrum matches (PSMs) generated, the ability to detect proteins of low-abundance species, the effect of technical replicate runs on protein identifications and method reproducibility. We show here that, while 1D-LC approaches are faster and easier to set up and lead to more identifications per minute of runtime, 2D-LC approaches allow for a higher overall number of identifications with up to >10,000 protein groups identified. We also compared the 1D and 2D-LC approaches to a standard GeLC workflow, in which proteins are pre-fractionated via gel electrophoresis. This method yielded results comparable to the 2D-LC approaches, however with the drawback of a much increased sample preparation time. Based on our results, we provide recommendations on how to choose the best LC approach for metaproteomics experiments, depending on the study aims.
PXD011681	30838877	Transcriptome-proteome integration of archival human renal cell carcinoma biopsies enables identification of molecular mechanisms. 	Cross-omics analysis of archival human renal cell carcinoma biopsies to identify emerging treatment avenues	CD74, cross-omics, immunoproteasome, kidney cancer	Renal cell cancer is among the most common forms of cancer in humans, with around 35,000 deaths attributed to kidney carcinoma in the European Union in 2012 alone. Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) represents the most common form of kidney cancer and the most lethal of all genitourinary cancers. Here, we apply omics technologies to archival core biopsies to investigate the biology underlying ccRCC. Knowledge of these underlying processes should be useful for the discovery and/or confirmation of novel therapeutic approaches and ccRCC biomarker development. From partial or full nephrectomies of 11 patients, paired core biopsies of ccRCC-affected tissue and adjacent ("peritumorous") nontumor tissue were both sampled and subjected to proteomics analyses. We combined proteomics results with our published mRNA sequencing data from the same patients and with published miRNA sequencing data from an overlapping patient cohort from our institution. Statistical analysis and pathway analysis were performed with JMP Genomics and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), respectively. Proteomics analysis confirmed the involvement of metabolism and oxidative stress-related pathways in ccRCC, whereas the most affected pathways in the mRNA sequencing data were related to the immune system. Unlike proteomics or mRNA sequencing alone, a combinatorial cross-omics pathway analysis approach captured a broad spectrum of biological processes underlying ccRCC, such as mitochondrial damage, repression of apoptosis, and immune system pathways. Sirtuins, immunoproteasome genes, and CD74 are proposed as potential targets for the treatment of ccRCC.
PXD012845	30840888	APOBEC Mutagenesis and Copy-Number Alterations Are Drivers of Proteogenomic Tumor Evolution and Heterogeneity in Metastatic Thoracic Tumors. 	APOBEC mutagenesis and copy number alterations are drivers of proteogenomic tumor evolution and heterogeneity in metastatic thoracic tumors	tumor heterogeneity rapid autopsy	Intratumor mutational heterogeneity has been documented in primary non-small-cell lung cancer. Here, we elucidate mechanisms of tumor evolution and heterogeneity in metastatic thoracic tumors (lung adenocarcinoma and thymic carcinoma) using whole-exome and transcriptome sequencing, SNP array for copy-number alterations (CNAs), and mass-spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics of metastases obtained by rapid autopsy. APOBEC mutagenesis, promoted by increased expression of APOBEC3 region transcripts and associated with a high-risk APOBEC3 germline variant, correlated with mutational tumor heterogeneity. TP53 mutation status was associated with APOBEC hypermutator status. Interferon pathways were enriched in tumors with high APOBEC mutagenesis and IFN-gamma-induced expression of APOBEC3B in lung adenocarcinoma cells, suggesting that the immune microenvironment may promote mutational heterogeneity. CNAs occurring late in tumor evolution correlated with downstream transcriptomic and proteomic heterogeneity, although global proteomic heterogeneity was significantly greater than transcriptomic and CNA heterogeneity. These results illustrate key mechanisms underlying multi-dimensional heterogeneity in metastatic thoracic tumors.
PXD010865	30842263	Design and characterization of mutant and wildtype huntingtin proteins produced from a toolkit of scalable eukaryotic expression systems. 	Peptide mapping of purified huntingtin protein samples from different eukaryotic expression systems	HD, HTT, Huntingtin, Huntington's disease, eukaryotic expression system, pBacMam, polyQ, polyglutamine, post-translational modification	The gene mutated in individuals with Huntington's disease (HD) encodes the 348-kDa huntingtin (HTT) protein. Pathogenic HD CAG-expansion mutations create a polyglutamine (polyQ) tract at the N terminus of HTT that expands above a critical threshold of ~35 glutamine residues. The effect of these HD mutations on HTT is not well understood, in part because it is difficult to carry out biochemical, biophysical, and structural studies of this large protein. To facilitate such studies, here we have generated expression constructs for the scalable production of HTT in multiple eukaryotic expression systems. Our set of HTT expression clones comprised both N- and C-terminally FLAG-tagged HTT constructs with polyQ lengths representative of the general population, HD patients, and juvenile HD patients, as well as the more extreme polyQ expansions used in some HD tissue and animal models. Our expression system yielded milligram quantities of pure recombinant HTT protein, including many of the previously mapped post-translational modifications. We characterized both apo and HTT-HTT-associated protein 40 (HAP40) complex samples produced with this HD resource, demonstrating that this toolkit can be used to generate physiologically meaningful HTT complexes. We further demonstrate that these resources can produce sufficient material for protein-intensive experiments, such as small-angle X-ray scattering, providing biochemical insight into full-length HTT protein structure. The work outlined and the tools generated here lay a foundation for further biochemical and structural work on the HTT protein and for studying its functional interactions with other biomolecules.
PXD011857	30843680	Boosting to Amplify Signal with Isobaric Labeling (BASIL) Strategy for Comprehensive Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Characterization of Small Populations of Cells. 	A Signal Amplification via Boosting with Isobaric Labeling Strategy for Comprehensive Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Characterization of Small Populations of Cells	IMAC, TMT, phosphoproteome	Comprehensive phosphoproteomic analysis of small populations of cells remains a daunting task due primarily to the insufficient MS signal intensity from low concentrations of enriched phosphopeptides. Isobaric labeling has a unique multiplexing feature where the "total" peptide signal from all channels (or samples) triggers MS/MS fragmentation for peptide identification, while the reporter ions provide quantitative information. In light of this feature, we tested the concept of using a "boosting" sample (e.g., a biological sample mimicking the study samples but available in a much larger quantity) in multiplexed analysis to enable sensitive and comprehensive quantitative phosphoproteomic measurements with <100 000 cells. This simple boosting to amplify signal with isobaric labeling (BASIL) strategy increased the overall number of quantifiable phosphorylation sites more than 4-fold. Good reproducibility in quantification was demonstrated with a median CV of 15.3% and Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.95 from biological replicates. A proof-of-concept experiment demonstrated the ability of BASIL to distinguish acute myeloid leukemia cells based on the phosphoproteome data. Moreover, in a pilot application, this strategy enabled quantitative analysis of over 20 000 phosphorylation sites from human pancreatic islets treated with interleukin-1beta and interferon-gamma. Together, this signal boosting strategy provides an attractive solution for comprehensive and quantitative phosphoproteome profiling of relatively small populations of cells where traditional phosphoproteomic workflows lack sufficient sensitivity.
PXD008673	30845186	Neisseria gonorrhoeae MlaA influences gonococcal virulence and membrane vesicle production. 	Neisseria gonorrhoeae MlaA inversely influences gonococcal virulence and membrane vesicle production	Neisseria gonorrhoeae, membrane vesicles, mlaA	The six-component maintenance of lipid asymmetry (Mla) system is responsible for retrograde transport of phospholipids, ensuring the barrier function of the Gram-negative cell envelope. Located within the outer membrane, MlaA (VacJ) acts as a channel to shuttle phospholipids from the outer leaflet. We identified Neisseria gonorrhoeae MlaA (ngo2121) during high-throughput proteomic mining for potential therapeutic targets against this medically important human pathogen. Our follow-up phenotypic microarrays revealed that lack of MlaA results in a complex sensitivity phenome. Herein we focused on MlaA function in cell envelope biogenesis and pathogenesis. We demonstrate the existence of two MlaA classes among 21 bacterial species, characterized by the presence or lack of a lipoprotein signal peptide. Purified truncated N. gonorrhoeae MlaA elicited antibodies that cross-reacted with a panel of different Neisseria. Little is known about MlaA expression; we provide the first evidence that MlaA levels increase in stationary phase and under anaerobiosis but decrease during iron starvation. Lack of MlaA resulted in higher cell counts during conditions mimicking different host niches; however, it also significantly decreased colony size. Antimicrobial peptides such as polymyxin B exacerbated the size difference while human defensin was detrimental to mutant viability. Consistent with the proposed role of MlaA in vesicle biogenesis, the DeltamlaA mutant released 1.7-fold more membrane vesicles. Comparative proteomics of cell envelopes and native membrane vesicles derived from DeltamlaA and wild type bacteria revealed enrichment of TadA-which recodes proteins through mRNA editing-as well as increased levels of adhesins and virulence factors. MlaA-deficient gonococci significantly outcompeted (up to 16-fold) wild-type bacteria in the murine lower genital tract, suggesting the growth advantage or increased expression of virulence factors afforded by inactivation of mlaA is advantageous in vivo. Based on these results, we propose N. gonorrhoeae restricts MlaA levels to modulate cell envelope homeostasis and fine-tune virulence.
PXD008156	30845956	Human cardiac progenitor cell activation and regeneration mechanisms: exploring a novel myocardial ischemia/reperfusion in vitro model. 	Human myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury model to study cardiac stem cells activation and regeneration mechanisms	acute myocardial infarction, cardiac stem/progenitor cells, ischemia/reperfusion injury	BACKGROUND: Numerous studies from different labs around the world report human cardiac progenitor cells (hCPCs) as having a role in myocardial repair upon ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, mainly through auto/paracrine signaling. Even though these cell populations are already being investigated in cell transplantation-based clinical trials, the mechanisms underlying their response are still poorly understood. METHODS: To further investigate hCPC regenerative process, we established the first in vitro human heterotypic model of myocardial I/R injury using hCPCs and human-induced pluripotent cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs). The co-culture model was established using transwell inserts and evaluated in both ischemia and reperfusion phases regarding secretion of key cytokines, hiPSC-CM viability, and hCPC proliferation. hCPC proteome in response to I/R was further characterized using advanced liquid chromatography mass spectrometry tools. RESULTS: This model recapitulates hallmarks of I/R, namely hiPSC-CM death upon insult, protective effect of hCPCs on hiPSC-CM viability (37.6% higher vs hiPSC-CM mono-culture), and hCPC proliferation (approximately threefold increase vs hCPCs mono-culture), emphasizing the importance of paracrine communication between these two populations. In particular, in co-culture supernatant upon injury, we report higher angiogenic functionality as well as a significant increase in the CXCL6 secretion rate, suggesting an important role of this chemokine in myocardial regeneration. hCPC whole proteome analysis allowed us to propose new pathways in the hCPC-mediated regenerative process, including cell cycle regulation, proliferation through EGF signaling, and reactive oxygen species detoxification. CONCLUSION: This work contributes with new insights into hCPC biology in response to I/R, and the model established constitutes an important tool to study the molecular mechanisms involved in the myocardial regenerative process.
PXD011849	30846971	Deprivation of the Periplasmic Chaperone SurA Reduces Virulence and Restores Antibiotic Susceptibility of Multidrug-Resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Role of SurA, BamB, BamC and HlpA for shaping the outer membrane protein composition of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	BamB, BamC, HlpA, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, SurA, bacterial infection, cell surface molecules, outer membrane protein biogenesis	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is one of the main causative agents of nosocomial infections and the spread of multidrug-resistant strains is rising. Therefore, novel strategies for therapy are urgently required. The outer membrane composition of Gram-negative pathogens and especially of Pa restricts the efficacy of antibiotic entry into the cell and determines virulence. For efficient outer membrane protein biogenesis, the beta-barrel assembly machinery (BAM) complex in the outer membrane and periplasmic chaperones like Skp and SurA are crucial. Previous studies indicated that the importance of individual proteins involved in outer membrane protein biogenesis may vary between different Gram-negative species. In addition, since multidrug-resistant Pa strains pose a serious global threat, the interference with both virulence and antibiotic resistance by disturbing outer membrane protein biogenesis might be a new strategy to cope with this challenge. Therefore, deletion mutants of the non-essential BAM complex components bamB and bamC, of the skp homolog hlpA as well as a conditional mutant of surA were investigated. The most profound effects for both traits were associated with reduced levels of SurA, characterized by increased membrane permeability, enhanced sensitivity to antibiotic treatment and attenuation of virulence in a Galleria mellonella infection model. Strikingly, the depletion of SurA in a multidrug-resistant clinical bloodstream isolate re-sensitized the strain to antibiotic treatment. From our data we conclude that SurA of Pa serves as a promising target for developing a drug that shows antiinfective activity and re-sensitizes multidrug-resistant strains to antibiotics.
PXD011671	30847494	Thylakoid Localized Type 2 NAD(P)H Dehydrogenase NdbA Optimizes Light-Activated Heterotrophic Growth of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	Thylakoid Localized Type 2 NAD(P)H Dehydrogenase NdbA Optimizes Light-Activated Heterotrophic Growth of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803	NDH-2 dehydrogenase, Synechocystis, electron transport, light-activated heterotrophic growth, photosynthesis, thylakoid	NdbA, one of the three type 2 NAD(P)H dehydrogenases (NDH-2) in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (hereafter Synechocystis) was here localized to the thylakoid membrane (TM), unique for the three NDH-2s, and investigated with respect to photosynthetic and cellular redox metabolism. For this purpose, a deletion mutant (DeltandbA) and a complementation strain overexpressing NdbA (DeltandbA::ndbA) were constructed. It is demonstrated that NdbA is expressed at very low level in the wild-type (WT) Synechocystis under photoautotrophic (PA) growth whilst substantially higher expression occurs under light-activated heterotrophic growth (LAHG). The absence of NdbA resulted in non-optimal growth of Synechocystis under LAHG and concomitantly enhanced the expression of photoprotection-related flavodiiron proteins and carbon acquisition-related proteins as well as various transporters, but downregulated a few iron homeostasis-related proteins. NdbA overexpression, on the other hand, promoted photosynthetic pigmentation and functionality of photosystem I under LAHG conditions while distinct photoprotective and carbon concentrating proteins were downregulated. NdbA overexpression also exerted an effect on the expression of many signaling and gene regulation proteins. It is concluded that the amount and function of NdbA in the TM has a capacity to modulate the redox signaling of gene expression, but apparently has a major physiological role in maintaining iron homeostasis under LAHG conditions. LC-MS/MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011671.
PXD011690	30848916	A Study into the ADP-Ribosylome of IFN-gamma-Stimulated THP-1 Human Macrophage-like Cells Identifies ARTD8/PARP14 and ARTD9/PARP9 ADP-Ribosylation. 	A study into the ADP-ribosylome of IFN--stimulated THP-1 human macrophage-like cells identifies ARTD8/PARP14 and ARTD9/PARP9 ADP-ribosylation	Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, electron transfer higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD), gas phase segmentation, higher-energy collision dissociation (HCD), parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), post-translational modification (P	ADP-ribosylation is a post-translational modification that, until recently, has remained elusive to study at the cellular level. Previously dependent on radioactive tracers to identify ADP-ribosylation targets, several advances in mass spectrometric workflows now permit global identification of ADP-ribosylated substrates. In this study, we capitalized on two ADP-ribosylation enrichment strategies, and multiple activation methods performed on the Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, to identify IFN-gamma-induced ADP-ribosylation substrates in macrophages. The ADP-ribosyl binding protein, Af1521, was used to enrich ADP-ribosylated peptides, and the antipoly-ADP-ribosyl antibody, 10H, was used to enrich ADP-ribosylated proteins. ADP-ribosyl-specific mass spectra were further enriched by an ADP-ribose product ion triggered EThcD and HCD activation strategy, in combination with multiple acquisitions that segmented the survey scan into smaller ranges. HCD and EThcD resulted in overlapping and unique ADP-ribosyl peptide identifications, with HCD providing more peptide identifications but EThcD providing more reliable ADP-ribosyl acceptor sites. Our acquisition strategies also resulted in the first ever characterization of ADP-ribosyl on three poly-ADP-ribose polymerases, ARTD9/PARP9, ARTD10/PARP10, and ARTD8/PARP14. IFN-gamma increased the ADP-ribosylation status of ARTD9/PARP9, ARTD8/PARP14, and proteins involved in RNA processes. This study therefore summarizes specific molecular pathways at the intersection of IFN-gamma and ADP-ribosylation signaling pathways.
PXD012436	30848925	Self-Assembled STrap for Global Proteomics and Salivary Biomarker Discovery. 	An ultrafast, reliable and economical approach for quantitative salivary proteomic profiling and oral cancer biomarker discovery	Biomarker, Clinical Proteomics, FASP, HeLa, OSCC, STrap, Saliva, Suspension Trapping, oral squamous cell carcinoma	Clinical biomarkers identified by shotgun proteomics require proteins in body fluids or tissues to be enzymatically digested before being separated and sequenced by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. How well peptide signals can be resolved and detected is largely dependent on the quality of sample preparation. Conventional approaches such as in-gel, in-solution, and filter-based digestion, despite their extensive implementation by the community, become less appealing due to their unsatisfying protein/peptide recovery rate, lengthy sample processing, and/or lowcost-effectiveness. Suspension trapping has recently been demonstrated as an ultrafast approach for proteomic analysis. Here, for the first time, we extend its application to human salivary proteome analyses. In particular, we present a simple self-assembled glass fiber filter device which can be packed with minimal difficulty, is extremely cost-effective, and maintains the same performance as commercial filters. As a proof-of-principle, we analyzed the whole saliva from 8 healthy individuals as well as a cohort of 10 subjects of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients and non-OSCC subjects. Label-free quantification revealed surprisingly low interindividual variability and several known markers. Our study provides the first evidence of an easy-to-use and low-cost device for clinical proteomics as well as for general proteomic sample preparation.
PXD011157	30850421	Virulence Factors Produced by Staphylococcus aureus Biofilms Have a Moonlighting Function Contributing to Biofilm Integrity. 	Virulence factors produced by Staphylococcus aureus biofilms have a moonlighting function contributing to biofilm integrity	Biofilm, ECM, Staphylococcus aureus	Staphylococcus aureus is the causative agent of various biofilm-associated infections in humans causing major healthcare problems worldwide. This type of infection is inherently difficult to treat because of a reduced metabolic activity of biofilm-embedded cells and the protective nature of a surrounding extracellular matrix (ECM). However, little is known about S. aureus biofilm physiology and the proteinaceous composition of the ECM. Thus, we cultivated S. aureus biofilms in a flow system and comprehensively profiled intracellular and extracellular (ECM and flow-through (FT)) biofilm proteomes, as well as the extracellular metabolome compared with planktonic cultures. Our analyses revealed the expression of many pathogenicity factors within S. aureus biofilms as indicated by a high abundance of capsule biosynthesis proteins along with various secreted virulence factors, including hemolysins, leukotoxins, and lipases as a part of the ECM. The activity of ECM virulence factors was confirmed in a hemolysis assay and a Galleria mellonella pathogenicity model. In addition, we uncovered a so far unacknowledged moonlighting function of secreted virulence factors and ribosomal proteins trapped in the ECM: namely their contribution to biofilm integrity. Mechanistically, it was revealed that this stabilizing effect is mediated by the strong positive charge of alkaline virulence factors and ribosomal proteins in an acidic ECM environment, which is caused by the release of fermentation products like formate, lactate, and acetate because of oxygen limitation in biofilms. The strong positive charge of these proteins most likely mediates electrostatic interactions with anionic cell surface components, eDNA, and anionic metabolites. In consequence, this leads to strong cell aggregation and biofilm stabilization. Collectively, our study identified a new molecular mechanism during S. aureus biofilm formation and thus significantly widens the understanding of biofilm-associated S. aureus infections - an essential prerequisite for the development of novel antimicrobial therapies.
PXD012760	30851150	Carboxylic acid consumption and production by Corynebacterium glutamicum. 	Carboxylic acid consumption and production by Corynebacterium glutamicum_LC-MS/MS	Corynebacterium glutamicum, carboxylic acid, heterogeneity, oxygen oscillation, scale down	Corynebacterium glutamicum is well-known as an industrial workhorse, most notably for its use in the bulk production of amino acids in the feed and food sector. Previous studies of the effect of gradients in scale-down reactors with complex media disclosed an accumulation of several carboxylic acids and a parallel decrease of growth and product accumulation. This study, therefore, addresses the impact of carboxylic acids, for example, acetate and l-lactate, on the cultivation of the cadaverine producing strain C. glutamicum DM1945Deltaact3:Ptuf -ldcC(opt) and their potential role in scale up related performance losses. A fluctuating power input in shake flask and stirred tank cultivations with mineral salt was applied to mimic discontinuous oxygen availability. Results demonstrate, whenever sufficient oxygen was available, C. glutamicum recovered from previously occurring stressful conditions like an oxygen limiting phase. Reassimilation of acids was detected simultaneously. In cultures, which were supplemented with either acetate or l-lactate, a rapid cometabolization of both acids in presence of glucose was observed, showing conversion rates of 7.8 and 3.8 mmol gcell dry weight(-1) hr(-1) , respectively. Uptake of these acids was accompanied by increased oxygen consumption. Proteins related to oxidative stress response, glycogen synthesis, and the main carbon metabolism were found in altered concentrations under oscillatory cultivation conditions. (Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012760). Virtually no impact on growth or product formation was observed. We conclude that the reduced growth and product formation in scale-down cultivations when complex media was used is not caused by the accumulation of carboxylic acids.
PXD012892	30852162	hnRNPM induces translation switch under hypoxia to promote colon cancer development. 	Identification of human FGF9 IRES interacting proteins	FGF9, IRES, MALDI-TOF MS, hypoxia	BACKGROUND: Hypoxia suppresses global protein production, yet certain essential proteins are translated through alternative pathways to survive under hypoxic stress. Translation via the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) is a means to produce proteins under stress conditions such as hypoxia; however, the underlying mechanism remains largely uncharacterized. METHODS: Proteomic and bioinformatic analyses were employed to identify hnRNPM as an IRES interacting factor. Clinical specimens and mouse model of tumorigenesis were used for determining the expression and correlation of hnRNPM and its target gene. Transcriptomic and translatomic analyses were performed to profile target genes regulated by hnRNPM. FINDINGS: Hypoxia increases cytosolic hnRNPM binding onto its target mRNAs and promotes translation initiation. Clinical colon cancer specimens and mouse carcinogenesis model showed that hnRNPM is elevated during the development of colorectal cancer, and is associated with poor prognosis. Genome-wide transcriptomics and translatomics analyses revealed a unique set of hnRNPM-targeted genes involved in metabolic processes and cancer neoplasia are selectively translated under hypoxia. INTERPRETATION: These data highlight the critical role of hnRNPM-IRES-mediated translation in transforming hypoxia-induced proteome toward malignancy. FUND: This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology, Taiwan (MOST 104-2320-B-006-042 to HSS and MOST 105-2628-B-001-MY3 to TMC).
PXD011670	30854431	Chromatin capture links the metabolic enzyme AHCY to stem cell proliferation. 	Chromatin capture links the metabolic enzyme AHCY to stem cell proliferation	AHCY, Chromatin, stem cells	Profiling the chromatin-bound proteome (chromatome) in a simple, direct, and reliable manner might be key to uncovering the role of yet uncharacterized chromatin factors in physiology and disease. Here, we have designed an experimental strategy to survey the chromatome of proliferating cells by using the DNA-mediated chromatin pull-down (Dm-ChP) technology. Our approach provides a global view of cellular chromatome under normal physiological conditions and enables the identification of chromatin-bound proteins de novo. Integrating Dm-ChP with genomic and functional data, we have discovered an unexpected chromatin function for adenosylhomocysteinase, a major one-carbon pathway metabolic enzyme, in gene activation. Our study reveals a new regulatory axis between the metabolic state of pluripotent cells, ribosomal protein production, and cell division during the early phase of embryo development, in which the metabolic flux of methylation reactions is favored in a local milieu.
PXD012390	30856316	Measuring Amber Initiator tRNA Orthogonality in a Genomically Recoded Organism. 	N-terminal amino acid identification using targeted mass spectrometry	N-terminal amino acid, Parallel reaction monitoring, amber initiator tRNA, nanoluciferase	Using engineered initiator tRNA for precise control of protein translation within cells has great promise within future orthogonal translation systems to decouple housekeeping protein metabolism from that of engineered genetic systems. Previously, E. coli strain C321.DeltaA. exp lacking all UAG stop codons was created, freeing this "amber" stop codon for other purposes. An engineered "amber initiator" tRNACUA(fMet) that activates translation at UAG codons is available, but little is known about this tRNA's orthogonality. Here, we combine for the first time the amber initiator tRNACUA(fMet) in C321.DeltaA. exp and measure its cellular effects. We found that the tRNACUA(fMet) expression resulted in a nearly 200-fold increase in fluorescent reporter expression with a unimodal population distribution and no apparent cellular fitness defects. Proteomic analysis revealed upregulated ribosome-associated, tRNA degradation, and amino acid biosynthetic proteins, with no evidence for off-target translation initiation. In contrast to previous work, we show that UAG-initiated proteins carry N-terminal methionine, but have no evidence for glutamine. Together, our results identify beneficial features of using the amber initiator tRNACUA(fMet) to control gene expression while also revealing fundamental challenges to using engineered initiator tRNAs as the basis for orthogonal translation initiation systems.
PXD012263	30857592	Functional proteomic atlas of HIV infection in primary human CD4+ T cells. 	Functional proteomic atlas of HIV-infection in primary human CD4+ T cells	HIV, Primary T-Cells	Viruses manipulate host cells to enhance their replication, and the identification of cellular factors targeted by viruses has led to key insights into both viral pathogenesis and cell biology. In this study, we develop an HIV reporter virus (HIV-AFMACS) displaying a streptavidin-binding affinity tag at the surface of infected cells, allowing facile one-step selection with streptavidin-conjugated magnetic beads. We use this system to obtain pure populations of HIV-infected primary human CD4+ T cells for detailed proteomic analysis, and quantitate approximately 9000 proteins across multiple donors on a dynamic background of T cell activation. Amongst 650 HIV-dependent changes (q < 0.05), we describe novel Vif-dependent targets FMR1 and DPH7, and 192 proteins not identified and/or regulated in T cell lines, such as ARID5A and PTPN22. We therefore provide a high-coverage functional proteomic atlas of HIV infection, and a mechanistic account of host factors subverted by the virus in its natural target cell.
PXD012356	30858367	Proteome-wide solubility and thermal stability profiling reveals distinct regulatory roles for ATP. 	Proteome-wide solubility and thermal stability profiling reveals distinct regulatory roles for ATP - SPP datasets	ATP, Jurkat, SPP	Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) plays fundamental roles in cellular biochemistry and was recently discovered to function as a biological hydrotrope. Here, we use mass spectrometry to interrogate ATP-mediated regulation of protein thermal stability and protein solubility on a proteome-wide scale. Thermal proteome profiling reveals high affinity interactions of ATP as a substrate and as an allosteric modulator that has widespread influence on protein complexes and their stability. Further, we develop a strategy for proteome-wide solubility profiling, and discover ATP-dependent solubilization of at least 25% of the insoluble proteome. ATP increases the solubility of positively charged, intrinsically disordered proteins, and their susceptibility for solubilization varies depending on their localization to different membrane-less organelles. Moreover, a few proteins, exhibit an ATP-dependent decrease in solubility, likely reflecting polymer formation. Our data provides a proteome-wide, quantitative insight into how ATP influences protein structure and solubility across the spectrum of physiologically relevant concentrations.
PXD012741	30858410	Signs of biological activities of 28,000-year-old mammoth nuclei in mouse oocytes visualized by live-cell imaging. 	Proteomics of muscle and bone marrow samples from the 28,000-year-old remains of a woolly mammoth (Mammuthus primigenius).	TripleTOF5600, asian elephant, bone marrow, muscle, woolly mammoth	The 28,000-year-old remains of a woolly mammoth, named 'Yuka', were found in Siberian permafrost. Here we recovered the less-damaged nucleus-like structures from the remains and visualised their dynamics in living mouse oocytes after nuclear transfer. Proteomic analyses demonstrated the presence of nuclear components in the remains. Nucleus-like structures found in the tissue homogenate were histone- and lamin-positive by immunostaining. In the reconstructed oocytes, the mammoth nuclei showed the spindle assembly, histone incorporation and partial nuclear formation; however, the full activation of nuclei for cleavage was not confirmed. DNA damage levels, which varied among the nuclei, were comparable to those of frozen-thawed mouse sperm and were reduced in some reconstructed oocytes. Our work provides a platform to evaluate the biological activities of nuclei in extinct animal species.
PXD012200	30858574	Gut anatomical properties and microbial functional assembly promote lignocellulose deconstruction and colony subsistence of a wood-feeding beetle. 	Gut anatomical development and microbial functional assembly of wood-feeding beetles	lignocellulose, microbiome	Beneficial microbial associations enhance the fitness of most living organisms, and wood-feeding insects offer some of the most striking examples of this. Odontotaenius disjunctus is a wood-feeding beetle that possesses a digestive tract with four main compartments, each of which contains well-differentiated microbial populations, suggesting that anatomical properties and separation of these compartments may enhance energy extraction from woody biomass. Here, using integrated chemical analyses, we demonstrate that lignocellulose deconstruction and fermentation occur sequentially across compartments, and that selection for microbial groups and their metabolic pathways is facilitated by gut anatomical features. Metaproteogenomics showed that higher oxygen concentration in the midgut drives lignocellulose depolymerization, while a thicker gut wall in the anterior hindgut reduces oxygen diffusion and favours hydrogen accumulation, facilitating fermentation, homoacetogenesis and nitrogen fixation. We demonstrate that depolymerization continues in the posterior hindgut, and that the beetle excretes an energy- and nutrient-rich product on which its offspring subsist and develop. Our results show that the establishment of beneficial microbial partners within a host requires both the acquisition of the microorganisms and the formation of specific habitats within the host to promote key microbial metabolic functions. Together, gut anatomical properties and microbial functional assembly enable lignocellulose deconstruction and colony subsistence on an extremely nutrient-poor diet.
PXD012293	30858878	Engineering Corynebacterium glutamicum to produce the biogasoline isopentenol from plant biomass hydrolysates. 	Engineering Corynebacterium glutamicum to produce the biogasoline isopentenol from plant biomass hydrolysates	C. glutamicum, isoprenoid pathway, targeted proteomics	BACKGROUND: Many microbes used for the rapid discovery and development of metabolic pathways have sensitivities to final products and process reagents. Isopentenol (3-methyl-3-buten-1-ol), a biogasoline candidate, has an established heterologous gene pathway but is toxic to several microbial hosts. Reagents used in the pretreatment of plant biomass, such as ionic liquids, also inhibit growth of many host strains. We explored the use of Corynebacterium glutamicum as an alternative host to address these constraints. RESULTS: We found C. glutamicum ATCC 13032 to be tolerant to both the final product, isopentenol, as well to three classes of ionic liquids. A heterologous mevalonate-based isopentenol pathway was engineered in C. glutamicum. Targeted proteomics for the heterologous pathway proteins indicated that the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase protein, HmgR, is a potential rate-limiting enzyme in this synthetic pathway. Isopentenol titers were improved from undetectable to 1.25 g/L by combining three approaches: media optimization; substitution of an NADH-dependent HmgR homolog from Silicibacter pomeroyi; and development of a C. glutamicum incrementpoxB incrementldhA host chassis. CONCLUSIONS: We describe the successful expression of a heterologous mevalonate-based pathway in the Gram-positive industrial microorganism, C. glutamicum, for the production of the biogasoline candidate, isopentenol. We identified critical genetic factors to harness the isopentenol pathway in C. glutamicum. Further media and cultivation optimization enabled isopentenol production from sorghum biomass hydrolysates.
PXD011213	30859575	Structural and functional differentiation of the light-harvesting protein Lhcb4 during land plant diversification. 	Structural and functional differentiation of the light-harvesting protein Lhcb4 during land plant diversification	LHCII, PSII, SWATH, label-free, land plants evolution, light acclimation, light harvesting	About 475 million years ago, plants originated from an ancestral green alga and evolved first as non-vascular and later as vascular plants, becoming the primary producers of biomass on lands. During that time, the light-harvesting complex II (LHCII), responsible for sunlight absorption and excitation energy transfer to the photosystem II (PSII) core, underwent extensive differentiation. Lhcb4 is an ancestral LHCII that, in flowering plants, differentiated into up to three isoforms, Lhcb4.1, Lhcb4.2 and Lhcb4.3. The pivotal position of Lhcb4 in the PSII-LHCII supercomplex (PSII-LHCIIsc) allows functioning as linker for either S- or M-trimers of LHCII to the PSII core. The increased accumulation of Lhcb4.3 observed in PSII-LHCIIsc of plants acclimated to moderate and high light intensities induced us to investigate, whether this isoform has a preferential localization in a specific PSII-LHCIIsc conformation that might explain its light-dependent accumulation. In this work, by combining an improved method for separation of different forms of PSII-LHCIIsc from thylakoids of Pisum sativum L. grown at increasing irradiances with quantitative proteomics, we assessed that Lhcb4.3 is abundant in PSII-LHCIIsc of type C2 S2 , and, interestingly, similar results were found for the PsbR subunit. Phylogenetic comparative analysis on different taxa of the Viridiplantae lineage and structural modeling further pointed out to an effect of the evolution of different Lhcb4 isoforms on the light-dependent modulation of the PSII-LHCIIsc organization. This information provides new insight on the properties of the Lhcb4 and its isoforms and their role on the structure, function and regulation of PSII.
PXD020149	30860844	Quantitative Proteomics Combined with Affinity MS Revealed the Molecular Mechanism of Ginsenoside Antitumor Effects. 	Quantitative proteomics combine with affinity MS revealed the molecular mechanism of ginsenoside anti-tumor effects	quantitative proteomics	Ginsenosides have previously been demonstrated to effectively inhibit cancer cell growth and survival in both animal models and cell lines. However, the specific ginsenoside component that is the active ingredient for cancer treatment through interaction with a target protein remains unknown. By an integrated quantitative proteomics approach via affinity mass spectrum (MS) technology, we deciphered the core structure of the ginsenoside active ingredient derived from crude extracts of ginsenosides and progressed toward identifying the target protein that mediates its anticancer activity. The Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) labeling quantitative proteomics technique acquired 55620 MS/MS spectra that identified 5499 proteins and 3045 modified proteins. Of these identified proteins, 224 differentially expressed proteins and modified proteins were significantly altered in nonsmall cell lung cancer cell lines. Bioinformatics tools for comprehensive analysis revealed that the Ras protein played a general regulatory role in many functional pathways and was probably the direct target protein of a compound in ginsenosides. Then, affinity MS screening based on the Ras protein identified 20(s)-protopanaxadiol, 20(s)-Ginsenoside Rh2, and 20(s)-Ginsenoside Rg3 had affinity with Ras protein under different conditions. In particular, 20(s)-protopanaxadiol, whose derivatives are the reported antitumor compounds 20(s)-Ginsenoside Rh2 and 20(s)-Ginsenoside Rg3 that have a higher affinity for Ras via a low KD of 1.22 muM and the mutation sites of G12 and G60, was demonstrated to play a core role in those interactions. Moreover, the molecular mechanism and bioactivity assessment results confirmed the identity of the chemical ligand that was directly acting on the GTP binding pocket of Ras and shown to be effective in cancer cell bioactivity profiles.
PXD008226	30862565	An inter-subunit protein-peptide interface that stabilizes the specific activity and oligomerization of the AAA+ chaperone Reptin. 	An inter-subunit protein-protein interface that stabilizes the specific activity and oligomerization of the AAA+ chaperone Reptin	HDX mass spectrometry, Reptin, oligomer assembly, protein-protein interaction	Reptin is a member of the AAA+ superfamily whose members can exist in equilibrium between monomeric apo forms and ligand bound hexamers. Inter-subunit protein-protein interfaces that stabilize Reptin in its oligomeric state are not well-defined. A self-peptide binding assay identified a protein-peptide interface mapping to an inter-subunit "rim" of the hexamer bridged by Tyrosine-340. A Y340A mutation reduced ADP-dependent oligomer formation using a gel filtration assay, suggesting that Y340 forms a dominant oligomer stabilizing side chain. The monomeric Reptin(Y340A) mutant protein exhibited increased activity to its partner protein AGR2 in an ELISA assay, further suggesting that hexamer formation can preclude certain protein interactions. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) demonstrated that the Y340A mutation attenuated deuterium suppression of Reptin in this motif in the presence of ligand. By contrast, the tyrosine motif of Reptin interacts with a shallower pocket in the hetero-oligomeric structure containing Pontin and HDX-MS revealed no obvious role of the Y340 side chain in stabilizing the Reptin-Pontin oligomer. Molecular dynamic simulations (MDS) rationalized how the Y340A mutation impacts upon a normally stabilizing inter-subunit amino acid contact. MDS also revealed how the D299N mutation can, by contrast, remove oligomer de-stabilizing contacts. These data suggest that the Reptin interactome can be regulated by a ligand dependent equilibrium between monomeric and hexameric forms through a hydrophobic inter-subunit protein-protein interaction motif bridged by Tyrosine-340. SIGNIFICANCE: Discovering dynamic protein-protein interactions is a fundamental aim of research in the life sciences. An emerging view of protein-protein interactions in higher eukaryotes is that they are driven by small linear polypeptide sequences; the linear motif. We report on the use of linear-peptide motif screens to discover a relatively high affinity peptide-protein interaction for the AAA+ and pro-oncogenic protein Reptin. This peptide interaction site was shown to form a 'hot-spot' protein-protein interaction site, and validated to be important for ligand-induced oligomerization of the Reptin protein. These biochemical data provide a foundation to understand how single point mutations in Reptin can impact on its oligomerization and protein-protein interaction landscape.
PXD012742	30862566	Differential responses to stress of two Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae strains. 	Differential responses to stress of two Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae strains	Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae, heat stress, oxidative stress, virulence	Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae is a respiratory pathogen, causing porcine enzootic pneumonia. To survive in the porcine respiratory tract, M. hyopneumoniae must cope with both oxidative and heat stress imposed by the host. To get insights into M. hyopneumoniae stress responses and pathogenicity mechanisms, the protein profiles of two M. hyopneumoniae strains, pathogenic 7448 strain and non-pathogenic strain J, were surveyed under oxidative (OS) or heat (HS) stress. M. hyopneumoniae strains were submitted to OS (0.5% hydrogen peroxide) or HS (temperature shifts to 42 degreesC) conditions and protein profiling was carried out by LC-MS/MS and label-free quantitative analyses. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012742. Qualitative and quantitative differences involving 40-60 M. hyopneumoniae proteins were observed for both strains when comparing bacteria exposed to OS or HS to non-treated controls. However, no differences in abundance were found in proteins classically related to stress responses, as peroxidases and chaperones, suggesting that these proteins would be constitutively present in both strains in the tested conditions. Interestingly, under stress conditions, more virulence-related proteins were detected in M. hyopneumoniae 7448 differentially represented proteins than in M. hyopneumoniae J, suggesting that stress may trigger a differential response of the corresponding genes, shared by both strains.
PXD011688	30862833	Global Ubiquitome Profiling Revealed the Roles of Ubiquitinated Proteins in Metabolic Pathways of Tea Leaves in Responding to Drought Stress. 	Global Ubiquitome Profiling Revealed the Roles of Ubiquitinated Proteins in Metabolic Pathways of Tea Leaves in Responding to Drought Stress	Camellia sinensis L., drought stress, metabolic pathway, ubiquination	Drought stress often affects the expression of genes and proteins in tea plants. However, the global profiling of ubiquitinated (Kub) proteins in tea plants remains unearthed. Here, we performed the ubiquitome in tea leaves under drought stress using antibody-based affinity enrichment coupled with LC-MS/MS analysis. In total, 1,409 lysine Kub sites in 781 proteins were identified, of which 14 sites in 12 proteins were up-regulated and 123 sites in 91 proteins down-regulated under drought stress. The identified Kub proteins were mainly located in the cytosol (31%), chloroplast (27%) and nuclear (19%). Moreover, 5 conserved motifs in EK(ub), EXXXK(ub), K(ub)D, K(ub)E and K(ub)A were extracted. Several Kub sites in ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis-related proteins, including RGLG2, UBC36, UEV1D, RPN10 and PSMC2, might affect protein degradation and DNA repair. Plenty of Kub proteins related to catechins biosynthesis, including PAL, CHS, CHI and F3H, were positively correlated with each other due to their co-expression and co-localization. Furthermore, some Kub proteins involved in carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism, including FBPase, FBA and GAD1, might promote sucrose, fructose and GABA accumulation in tea leaves under drought stress. Our study preliminarily revealed the global profiling of Kub proteins in metabolic pathways and provided an important resource for further study on the functions of Kub proteins in tea plants.
PXD012156	30863395	Light-Controlled Affinity Purification of Protein Complexes Exemplified by the Resting ZAP70 Interactome. 	Light-controlled affinity purification of protein complexes	ZAP70, affinity purification, optogenetics, phytochrome, protein-protein interaction	Multiprotein complexes control the behavior of cells, such as of lymphocytes of the immune system. Methods to affinity purify protein complexes and to determine their interactome by mass spectrometry are thus widely used. One drawback of these methods is the presence of false positives. In fact, the elution of the protein of interest (POI) is achieved by changing the biochemical properties of the buffer, so that unspecifically bound proteins (the false positives) may also elute. Here, we developed an optogenetics-derived and light-controlled affinity purification method based on the light-regulated reversible protein interaction between phytochrome B (PhyB) and its phytochrome interacting factor 6 (PIF6). We engineered a truncated variant of PIF6 comprising only 22 amino acids that can be genetically fused to the POI as an affinity tag. Thereby the POI can be purified with PhyB-functionalized resin material using 660 nm light for binding and washing, and 740 nm light for elution. Far-red light-induced elution is effective but very mild as the same buffer is used for the wash and elution. As proof-of-concept, we expressed PIF-tagged variants of the tyrosine kinase ZAP70 in ZAP70-deficient Jurkat T cells, purified ZAP70 and associating proteins using our light-controlled system, and identified the interaction partners by quantitative mass spectrometry. Using unstimulated T cells, we were able to detect the known interaction partners, and could filter out all other proteins.
PXD012735	30864180	Profiling of Histidine Phosphoproteome in Danio rerio by TiO2 Enrichment. 	Zebrafish, LC-MS/MS -  Profiling of Histidine Phosphoproteome in Danio rerio by TiO2 Enrichment	embryo, zebrafish	Histidine phosphorylation is a reversible post-translational modification that is known to regulate signal transduction in prokaryotes. However, functional studies in eukaryotes have been largely neglected due to the labile nature of N-linked phosphorylated amino acids. In an effort to help elucidate the heretofore hidden vertebrate phosphoproteome, this report presents a global phosphorylation analysis of Danio rerio (zebrafish) larvae. Phosphopeptide enrichment is performed using a TiO2 affinity technique. A total of 68 unique phosphohistidine sites are detected on 63 proteins among 1076 unique phosphosites on 708 proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012735. This report provides the first phosphohistidine dataset obtained from zebrafish.
PXD008508	30865376	Proteogenomic Refinement of the Neomegalonema perideroedes(T) Genome Annotation. 	Proteogenomic refinement of the Neomegalonema perideroedes genome annotation	Meganema, PHA, bulking, proteogenomics, wastewater treatment	Neomegalonema perideroedes (formerly Meganema perideroedes) str. G1 is the type strain and only described isolate of the genus Neomegalonema (formerly Meganema) which belongs to the Alphaproteobacteria. N. perideroedes is distinguished by the ability to accumulate high amounts of polyhydroxyalkanoates and has been associated with bulking problems in wastewater treatment plants due to its filamentous morphology. In 2013, its genome was sequenced as part of the Genomic Encyclopedia of Bacteria and Archaea (GEBA), which aims to improve the sequencing coverage of the poorly represented regions of the bacterial and archaeal branches of the tree of life. As N. perideroedes str. G1 is relatively distantly related to well described species-being the only sequenced member of its proposed family-the in silico prediction of genes by nucleotide homology to reference genes might be less reliable. Here, a proteomic dataset for the refinement of the N. perideroedes genome annotations is generated which clearly indicates the shortcomings of high-throughput in silico genome annotation.
PXD012867	30865586	The proteasome biogenesis regulator Rpn4 cooperates with the unfolded protein response to promote ER stress resistance. 	The proteasome biogenesis regulator Rpn4 cooperates with the unfolded protein response to promote ER stress resistance	AP-4, Dynamic Organellar Maps, autophagy, human cells, vesicles	Misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) activate the unfolded protein response (UPR), which enhances protein folding to restore homeostasis. Additional pathways respond to ER stress, but how they help counteract protein misfolding is incompletely understood. Here, we develop a titratable system for the induction of ER stress in yeast to enable a genetic screen for factors that augment stress resistance independently of the UPR. We identify the proteasome biogenesis regulator Rpn4 and show that it cooperates with the UPR. Rpn4 abundance increases during ER stress, first by a post-transcriptional, then by a transcriptional mechanism. Induction of RPN4 transcription is triggered by cytosolic mislocalization of secretory proteins, is mediated by multiple signaling pathways and accelerates clearance of misfolded proteins from the cytosol. Thus, Rpn4 and the UPR are complementary elements of a modular cross-compartment response to ER stress.
PXD008469	30865669	Consequences of impaired 1-MDa TIC complex assembly for the abundance and composition of chloroplast high-molecular mass protein complexes. 	The chloroplast outer and inner envelope membrane translocase (TOC/TIC) interaction network identifies a 23 kDa glycine-rich protein as new subunit of the 1-MDa TIC complex	TIC	We report a systematic analysis of chloroplast high-molecular mass protein complexes using a combination of native gel electrophoresis and absolute protein quantification by MSE. With this experimental setup, we characterized the effect of the tic56-3 mutation in the 1-MDa inner envelope translocase (TIC) on the assembly of the chloroplast proteome. We show that the tic56-3 mutation results in a reduction of the 1-MDa TIC complex to approximately 10% of wildtype levels. Hierarchical clustering confirmed the association of malate dehydrogenase (MDH) with an envelope-associated FtsH/FtsHi complex and suggested the association of a glycine-rich protein with the 1-MDa TIC complex. Depletion of this complex leads to a reduction of chloroplast ATPase to approx. 75% of wildtype levels, while the abundance of the FtsH/FtsHi complex is increased to approx. 140% of wildtype. The accumulation of the major photosynthetic complexes is not affected by the mutation, suggesting that tic56-3 plants can sustain a functional photosynthetic machinery despite a significant reduction of the 1-MDa TIC complex. Together our analysis expands recent efforts to catalogue the native molecular masses of chloroplast proteins and provides information on the consequences of impaired accumulation of the 1-MDa TIC translocase for chloroplast proteome assembly.
PXD012506	30865897	An Integrated Global Analysis of Compartmentalized HRAS Signaling. 	An integrated global analysis of compartmentalized HRAS signaling - Phosphoproteomics	RAS phosphoproteomics MiNETEi localisation	Modern omics technologies allow us to obtain global information on different types of biological networks. However, integrating these different types of analyses into a coherent framework for a comprehensive biological interpretation remains challenging. Here, we present a conceptual framework that integrates protein interaction, phosphoproteomics, and transcriptomics data. Applying this method to analyze HRAS signaling from different subcellular compartments shows that spatially defined networks contribute specific functions to HRAS signaling. Changes in HRAS protein interactions at different sites lead to different kinase activation patterns that differentially regulate gene transcription. HRAS-mediated signaling is the strongest from the cell membrane, but it regulates the largest number of genes from the endoplasmic reticulum. The integrated networks provide a topologically and functionally resolved view of HRAS signaling. They reveal distinct HRAS functions including the control of cell migration from the endoplasmic reticulum and TP53-dependent cell survival when signaling from the Golgi apparatus.
PXD013092	30867229	Integrated Analyses of Phenotype and Quantitative Proteome of CMTM4 Deficient Mice Reveal Its Association with Male Fertility. 	Sperm proteome of CMTM4-deficient mice	CMTM4, Knockout, Sperm	The chemokine-like factor (CKLF)-like MARVEL transmembrane domain-containing family (CMTM) is a gene family that has been implicated in male reproduction. CMTM4 is an evolutionarily conserved member that is highly expressed in the testis. However, its function in male fertility remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that CMTM4 is associated with spermatogenesis and sperm quality. Using Western blotting and immunohistochemical analyses, we found CMTM4 expression to be decreased in poor-quality human spermatozoa, old human testes, and testicular biopsies with nonobstructive azoospermia. Using CRISPR-Cas9 technology, we knocked out the Cmtm4 gene in mice. These Cmtm4 knockout (KO) mice showed reduced testicular daily sperm production, lower epididymal sperm motility and increased proportion of abnormally backward-curved sperm heads and bent sperm midpieces. These mice also had an evident sub-fertile phenotype, characterized by low pregnancy rates on prolonged breeding with wild type female mice, reduced in vitro fertilization efficiency and a reduced percentage of acrosome reactions. We then performed quantitative proteomic analysis of the testes, where we identified 139 proteins to be downregulated in Cmtm4-KO mice, 100 (71.9%) of which were related to sperm motility and acrosome reaction. The same proteomic analysis was performed on sperm, where we identified 3588 proteins with 409 being differentially regulated in Cmtm4-KO mice. Our enrichment analysis showed that upregulated proteins were enriched with nucleosomal DNA binding functions and the downregulated proteins were enriched with actin binding functions. These findings elucidate the roles of CMTM4 in male fertility and demonstrates its potential as a promising molecular candidate for sperm quality assessment and the diagnosis or treatment of male infertility.
PXD010530	30867249	The RNA-Protein Interactome of Differentiated Kidney Tubular Epithelial Cells. 	mIMCD RBPome and Proteome - We characterize the mRNA protein interactome of ciliated kidney tubular epithelial cells and we studied its modulation during hypoxia	mRNA interactome, mouse kidney tubuli cells	BACKGROUND: RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are fundamental regulators of cellular biology that affect all steps in the generation and processing of RNA molecules. Recent evidence suggests that regulation of RBPs that modulate both RNA stability and translation may have a profound effect on the proteome. However, regulation of RBPs in clinically relevant experimental conditions has not been studied systematically. METHODS: We used RNA interactome capture, a method for the global identification of RBPs to characterize the global RNA-binding proteome (RBPome) associated with polyA-tailed RNA species in murine ciliated epithelial cells of the inner medullary collecting duct. To study regulation of RBPs in a clinically relevant condition, we analyzed hypoxia-associated changes of the RBPome. RESULTS: We identified >1000 RBPs that had been previously found using other systems. In addition, we found a number of novel RBPs not identified by previous screens using mouse or human cells, suggesting that these proteins may be specific RBPs in differentiated kidney epithelial cells. We also found quantitative differences in RBP-binding to mRNA that were associated with hypoxia versus normoxia. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate the regulation of RBPs through environmental stimuli and provide insight into the biology of hypoxia-response signaling in epithelial cells in the kidney. A repository of the RBPome and proteome in kidney tubular epithelial cells, derived from our findings, is freely accessible online, and may contribute to a better understanding of the role of RNA-protein interactions in kidney tubular epithelial cells, including the response of these cells to hypoxia.
PXD012547	30867289	EZH1/2 function mostly within canonical PRC2 and exhibit proliferation-dependent redundancy that shapes mutational signatures in cancer. 	EZH1/2 function mostly within canonical PRC2 and exhibit proliferation-dependent redundancy that shapes mutational signatures in cancer	Chromatin, Polycomb, histone, methylation	Genetic mutations affecting chromatin modifiers are widespread in cancers. In malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs), Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), which plays a crucial role in gene silencing, is inactivated through recurrent mutations in core subunits embryonic ectoderm development (EED) and suppressor of zeste 12 homolog (SUZ12), but mutations in PRC2's main catalytic subunit enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) have never been found. This is in contrast to myeloid and lymphoid malignancies, which harbor frequent loss-of-function mutations in EZH2. Here, we investigated whether the absence of EZH2 mutations in MPNST is due to a PRC2-independent (i.e., noncanonical) function of the enzyme or to redundancy with EZH1. We show that, in the absence of SUZ12, EZH2 remains bound to EED but loses its interaction with all other core and accessory PRC2 subunits. Through genetic and pharmacological analyses, we unambiguously establish that EZH2 is functionally inert in this context, thereby excluding a PRC2-independent function. Instead, we show that EZH1 and EZH2 are functionally redundant in the slowly proliferating MPNST precursors. We provide evidence that the compensatory function of EZH1 is alleviated upon higher proliferation. This work reveals how context-dependent redundancies can shape tumor-type specific mutation patterns in chromatin regulators.
PXD010858	30867451	Cationic gold nanoparticles elicit mitochondrial dysfunction: a multi-omics study. 	Proteomics study of THP-1 monocytic cells exposed to surface modified-gold nanoparticles	THP-1 monocytes, gold-nanoparticles	Systems biology is increasingly being applied in nanosafety research for observing and predicting the biological perturbations inflicted by exposure to nanoparticles (NPs). In the present study, we used a combined transcriptomics and proteomics approach to assess the responses of human monocytic cells to Au-NPs of two different sizes with three different surface functional groups, i.e., alkyl ammonium bromide, alkyl sodium carboxylate, or poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG)-terminated Au-NPs. Cytotoxicity screening using THP-1 cells revealed a pronounced cytotoxicity for the ammonium-terminated Au-NPs, while no cell death was seen after exposure to the carboxylated or PEG-modified Au-NPs. Moreover, Au-NR3+ NPs, but not the Au-COOH NPs, were found to trigger dose-dependent lethality in vivo in the model organism, Caenorhabditis elegans. RNA sequencing combined with mass spectrometry-based proteomics predicted that the ammonium-modified Au-NPs elicited mitochondrial dysfunction. The latter results were validated by using an array of assays to monitor mitochondrial function. Au-NR3+ NPs were localized in mitochondria of THP-1 cells. Moreover, the cationic Au-NPs triggered autophagy in macrophage-like RFP-GFP-LC3 reporter cells, and cell death was aggravated upon inhibition of autophagy. Taken together, these studies have disclosed mitochondria-dependent effects of cationic Au-NPs resulting in the rapid demise of the cells.
PXD008898	30867486	Quantitative proteomic changes in LPS-activated monocyte-derived dendritic cells: A SWATH-MS study. 	Quantitative analysis of large-scale proteomic changes in LPS-activated monocyte-derived dendritic cells: A SWATH-MS study	antigen presentation, dendritic cell maturation, leukocyte metabolism, lipopolysaccharide, quantitative proteomics	Dendritic cells are key immune cells that respond to pathogens and co-ordinate many innate and adaptive immune responses. Quantitative mass spectrometry using Sequential Window Acquisition of all THeoretical fragment-ion spectra-Mass Spectrometry (SWATH-MS) was performed here to determine the global alterations in monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs) in response to stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). A moDC library of 4,666 proteins was generated and proteins were quantified at 0, 6 and 24 h post-LPS stimulation using SWATH-MS. At 6 h and 24 h post-LPS exposure, the relative abundance of 227 and 282 proteins was statistically significantly altered (p-value <= 0.05), respectively. Functional annotation of proteins exhibiting significant changes in expression between the various time points led to the identification of clusters of proteins implicated in distinct cellular processes including interferon and interleukin signalling, endocytosis, the ER-phagosome pathway and antigen-presentation. In SWATH-MS major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I proteins were highly upregulated at 24 h, whilst MHC class II proteins exhibited comparatively fewer changes over this period. This study provides new detailed insight into the global proteomic changes that occur in moDCs during antigen processing and presentation and further demonstrates the potential of SWATH-MS for the quantitative study of proteins involved in cellular processes.
PXD008106	30867594	Histone serotonylation is a permissive modification that enhances TFIID binding to H3K4me3. 	5HT	PTM, posttranslational modification, serotonylation.	Chemical modifications of histones can mediate diverse DNA-templated processes, including gene transcription(1-3). Here we provide evidence for a class of histone post-translational modification, serotonylation of glutamine, which occurs at position 5 (Q5ser) on histone H3 in organisms that produce serotonin (also known as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)). We demonstrate that tissue transglutaminase 2 can serotonylate histone H3 tri-methylated lysine 4 (H3K4me3)-marked nucleosomes, resulting in the presence of combinatorial H3K4me3Q5ser in vivo. H3K4me3Q5ser displays a ubiquitous pattern of tissue expression in mammals, with enrichment observed in brain and gut, two organ systems responsible for the bulk of 5-HT production. Genome-wide analyses of human serotonergic neurons, developing mouse brain and cultured serotonergic cells indicate that H3K4me3Q5ser nucleosomes are enriched in euchromatin, are sensitive to cellular differentiation and correlate with permissive gene expression, phenomena that are linked to the potentiation of TFIID(4-6) interactions with H3K4me3. Cells that ectopically express a H3 mutant that cannot be serotonylated display significantly altered expression of H3K4me3Q5ser-target loci, which leads to deficits in differentiation. Taken together, these data identify a direct role for 5-HT, independent from its contributions to neurotransmission and cellular signalling, in the mediation of permissive gene expression.
PXD009102	30867597	Glucocorticoids promote breast cancer metastasis. 	Stress hormones induce breast intra-tumor heterogeneity	TMT, cancer, phosphoproteomics	Diversity within or between tumours and metastases (known as intra-patient tumour heterogeneity) that develops during disease progression is a serious hurdle for therapy(1-3). Metastasis is the fatal hallmark of cancer and the mechanisms of colonization, the most complex step in the metastatic cascade(4), remain poorly defined. A clearer understanding of the cellular and molecular processes that underlie both intra-patient tumour heterogeneity and metastasis is crucial for the success of personalized cancer therapy. Here, using transcriptional profiling of tumours and matched metastases in patient-derived xenograft models in mice, we show cancer-site-specific phenotypes and increased glucocorticoid receptor activity in distant metastases. The glucocorticoid receptor mediates the effects of stress hormones, and of synthetic derivatives of these hormones that are used widely in the clinic as anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive agents. We show that the increase in stress hormones during breast cancer progression results in the activation of the glucocorticoid receptor at distant metastatic sites, increased colonization and reduced survival. Our transcriptomics, proteomics and phospho-proteomics studies implicate the glucocorticoid receptor in the activation of multiple processes in metastasis and in the increased expression of kinase ROR1, both of which correlate with reduced survival. The ablation of ROR1 reduced metastatic outgrowth and prolonged survival in preclinical models. Our results indicate that the activation of the glucocorticoid receptor increases heterogeneity and metastasis, which suggests that caution is needed when using glucocorticoids to treat patients with breast cancer who have developed cancer-related complications.
PXD070798	30867825	Circulating proteomic panels for diagnosis and risk stratification of acute-on-chronic liver failure in patients with viral hepatitis B. 	Circulating proteomic panels for diagnosis and risk stratification of acute-on-chronic liver failure in patients with viral hepatitis B	ACLF marker development	Chronic HBV infection (CHB) can lead to acute-on-chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF) characterized by high mortality. This study aimed to reveal ACLF-related proteomic alterations, from which protein based diagnostic and prognostic scores for HBV-ACLF were developed. Methods: Ten healthy controls, 16 CHB, and 19 HBV-ACLF according to COSSH (Chinese group on the study of severe hepatitis B) criteria were enrolled to obtain the comprehensive proteomic portrait related to HBV-ACLF initiation and progression. Potential markers of HBV-ACLF were further selected based on organ specificity and functionality. An additional cohort included 77 healthy controls, 92 CHB and 71 HBV-ACLF was used to validate the proteomic signatures via targeted proteomic assays. Results: Significant losses of plasma proteins related to multiple functional clusters, including fatty acid metabolism/transport, immuno-response, complement and coagulation systems, were observed in ACLF patients. In the validation study, 28 proteins were confirmed able to separate ACLF, CHB patients. A diagnostic classifier P4 (APOC3, HRG, TF, KLKB1) was built to differentiate ACLF from CHB with high accuracy (auROC = 0.956). A prognostic model P8 (GC, HRG, HPR, SERPINA6, age, NEU, INR and total protein) was built to distinguish survivors from non-survivors in 28 and 90-days follow-up (auROC = 0.882, 0.871), and to stratify ACLF patients into risk subgroups showing significant difference in 28 and 90-days mortality (HR=7.77, 7.45, both P<0.0001). In addition, P8 score correlated with ACLF grades and numbers of extra-hepatic organ failures in ACLF patients, and was able to predict ACLF-associated coagulation and brain failure within 90 days (auROC = 0.815, 0.842). Conclusions: Proteomic signatures developed in this study reflected the deficiency of key hematological functions in HBV-ACLF patients, and show potential for HBV-ACLF diagnosis and risk prediction in complementary to current clinical based parameters.
PXD005431	30869898	Identification of the Direct Substrates of the ABL Kinase via Kinase Assay Linked Phosphoproteomics with Multiple Drug Treatments. 	Identification of ABL Kinase Substrates by Kinase Assay Linked Phosphoproteomics and Multiple Drug Treatments	Phosphorylation, cancer signaling, kinase	Ableson tyrosine kinase (ABL) plays essential roles in cell differentiation, division, adhesion, and stress response. However, fusion of the breakpoint cluster region (BCR) to ABL produces constitutive kinase activity that causes chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as imatinib revolutionized the treatment of CML and other cancers, but acquired resistance to these inhibitors is rising. Thus, careful dissection of ABL signaling pathways is needed to find novel drug targets. Here we present a refined proteomic approach for elucidation of direct kinase substrates called kinase assay linked phosphoproteomics (KALIP). Our strategy integrates in vitro kinase assays at both the peptide and protein levels with quantitative tyrosine phosphoproteomics in response to treatment by multiple TKIs. Utilizing multiple TKIs permits elimination of off-target effects of these drugs, and overlapping the in vivo and in vitro data sets allows us to define a list of the most probable kinase substrates. Applying our approach produced a list of 60 ABL substrates, including novel and known proteins. We demonstrate that spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) is a novel direct substrate of ABL, and we predict our proteomic strategy may facilitate identification of substrates in other cancers that have disrupted kinase signaling.
PXD009249	30871073	Arsenic Trioxide and (-)-Gossypol Synergistically Target Glioma Stem-Like Cells via Inhibition of Hedgehog and Notch Signaling. 	ATO and Gossypol for GSC treatment	Chemotherapy, Gliablastoma	Glioblastoma is one of the deadliest malignancies and is virtually incurable. Accumulating evidence indicates that a small population of cells with a stem-like phenotype is the major culprit of tumor recurrence. Enhanced DNA repair capacity and expression of stemness marker genes are the main characteristics of these cells. Elimination of this population might delay or prevent tumor recurrence following radiochemotherapy. The aim of this study was to analyze whether interference with the Hedgehog signaling (Hh) pathway or combined Hh/Notch blockade using small-molecule inhibitors can efficiently target these cancer stem cells and sensitize them to therapy. Using tumor sphere lines and primary patient-derived glioma cultures we demonstrate that the Hh pathway inhibitor GANT61 (GANT) and the arsenic trioxide (ATO)-mediated Hh/Notch inhibition are capable to synergistically induce cell death in combination with the natural anticancer agent (-)-Gossypol (Gos). Only ATO in combination with Gos also strongly decreased stemness marker expression and prevented sphere formation and recovery. These synergistic effects were associated with distinct proteomic changes indicating diminished DNA repair and markedly reduced stemness. Finally, using an organotypic brain slice transplantation model, we show that combined ATO/Gos treatment elicits strong growth inhibition or even complete elimination of tumors. Collectively, our data show for the first time that ATO and Gos, two drugs that can be used in the clinic, represent a promising targeted therapy approach for the synergistic elimination of glioma stem-like cells.
PXD009693	30871482	Evaluation of linear models and missing value imputation for the analysis of peptide-centric proteomics. 	Analysis of reversibly oxidized cysteines from the Chlamydomonas proteome with yeast spike-in	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, label-free quantification, redox proteomics	BACKGROUND: Several methods to handle data generated from bottom-up proteomics via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, particularly for peptide-centric quantification dealing with post-translational modification (PTM) analysis like reversible cysteine oxidation are evaluated. The paper proposes a pipeline based on the R programming language to analyze PTMs from peptide-centric label-free quantitative proteomics data. RESULTS: Our methodology includes variance stabilization, normalization, and missing data imputation to account for the large dynamic range of PTM measurements. It also corrects biases from an enrichment protocol and reduces the random and systematic errors associated with label-free quantification. The performance of the methodology is tested by performing proteome-wide differential PTM quantitation using linear models analysis (limma). We objectively compare two imputation methods along with significance testing when using multiple-imputation for missing data. CONCLUSION: Identifying PTMs in large-scale datasets is a problem with distinct characteristics that require new methods for handling missing data imputation and differential proteome analysis. Linear models in combination with multiple-imputation could significantly outperform a t-test-based decision method.
PXD020493	30872628	Combined Tissue-Fluid Proteomics to Unravel Phenotypic Variability in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. 	Combined Tissue-Fluid Proteomics to Unravel Phenotypic Variability in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	ALS, PBMC, TMT, TMTcalibrator	The lack of biomarkers for early diagnosis, clinical stratification and to monitor treatment response has hampered the development of new therapies for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a clinically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder with a variable site of disease initiation and rate of progression. To identify new biomarkers and therapeutic targets, two separate proteomic workflows were applied to study the immunological response and the plasma/brain proteome in phenotypic variants of ALS. Conventional multiplex (TMT) proteomic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was performed alongside a recently introduced method to profile neuronal-derived proteins in plasma using brain tissue-enhanced isobaric tagging (TMTcalibrator). The combined proteomic analysis allowed the detection of regulated proteins linked to ALS pathogenesis (RNA-binding protein FUS, superoxide dismutase Cu-Zn and neurofilaments light polypeptide) alongside newly identified candidate biomarkers (myosin-9, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase and plectin). In line with the proteomic results, orthogonal immunodetection showed changes in neurofilaments and ApoE in bulbar versus limb onset fast progressing ALS. Functional analysis of significantly regulated features showed enrichment of pathways involved in regulation of the immune response, Rho family GTPases, semaphorin and integrin signalling. Our cross-phenotype investigation of PBMCs and plasma/brain proteins provides a more sensitive biomarker exploratory platform than conventional case-control studies in a single matrix. The reported regulated proteins may represent novel biomarker candidates and potentially druggable targets.
PXD010785	30875365	Analyzing bioactive effects of the minor hop compound xanthohumol C on human breast cancer cells using quantitative proteomics. 	Analyzing Bioactive Effects of the Minor Hop Compound Xanthohumol C on Human Breast Cancer Cells Using Quantitative Proteomics	ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), bioactivity, cancer, mcf-7, minor hop compounds, xanthohumol c	Minor prenylated hop compounds have been attracting increasing attention due to their promising anticarcinogenic properties. Even after intensive purification from natural raw extracts, allocating certain activities to single compounds or complex interactions of the main compound with remaining impurities in very low concentration is difficult. In this study, dose-dependent antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects of the promising xanthohumol (XN) analogue xanthohumol C (XNC) were evaluated and compared to XN and a XN-enriched hop extract (XF). It was demonstrated that the cell growth inhibition of human breast cancer cell line (MCF-7) significantly increases after being treated with XNC compared to XN and XF. Based on label-free data-dependent acquisition proteomics, physiological influences on the proteome of MCF-7 cells were analyzed. Different modes of action between XNC and XN treated MCF-7 cells could be postulated. XNC causes ER stress and seems to be involved in cell-cell adhesion, whereas XN influences cell cycles and DNA replication as well as type I interferon signaling pathway. The results demonstrate the utility of using quantitative proteomics for bioactivity screenings of minor hop compounds and underscore the importance of isolating highly pure compounds into their distinct forms to analyze their different and possibly synergistic activities and modes of action.
PXD008315	30875914	Molecular Responses of Maize Shoot to a Plant Derived Smoke Solution. 	Maize_Proteome_TK01	LFQ, maize	Plant-derived smoke has effects on plant growth. To find the molecular mechanism of plant-derived smoke on maize, a gel-free/label-free proteomic technique was used. The length of root and shoot were increased in maize by plant-derived smoke. Proteomic analysis revealed that 2000 ppm plant-derived smoke changed the abundance of 69 proteins in 4-days old maize shoot. Proteins in cytoplasm, chloroplast, and cell membrane were altered by plant-derived smoke. Catalytic, signaling, and nucleotide binding proteins were changed. Proteins related to sucrose synthase, nucleotides, signaling, and glutathione were significantly increased; however, cell wall, lipids, photosynthetic, and amino acid degradations related proteins were decreased. Based on proteomic and immunoblot analyses, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) was decreased; however, RuBisCO activase was not changed by plant-derived smoke in maize shoot. Ascorbate peroxidase was not affected; however, peroxiredoxin was decreased by plant-derived smoke. Furthermore, the results from enzyme-activity and mRNA-expression analyses confirmed regulation of ascorbate peroxidase and the peroxiredoxinin reactive oxygen scavenging system. These results suggest that increases in sucrose synthase, nucleotides, signaling, and glutathione related proteins combined with regulation of reactive oxygen species and their scavenging system in response to plant-derived smoke may improve maize growth.
PXD010989	30877195	Lysosomal targeting of the ABC transporter TAPL is determined by membrane-localized charged residues. 	TAPL interaction network -  Lysosomal targeting of the ABC transporter TAPL is determined by membrane localized charged residues	LC-MS	The human lysosomal polypeptide ABC transporter TAPL (ABC subfamily B member 9, ABCB9) transports 6-59-amino-acid-long polypeptides from the cytosol into lysosomes. The subcellular localization of TAPL depends solely on its N-terminal transmembrane domain, TMD0, which lacks conventional targeting sequences. However, the intracellular route and the molecular mechanisms that control TAPL localization remain unclear. Here, we delineated the route of TAPL to lysosomes and investigated the determinants of single trafficking steps. By synchronizing trafficking events by a retention using selective hooks (RUSH) assay and visualizing individual intermediate steps through immunostaining and confocal microscopy, we demonstrate that TAPL takes the direct route to lysosomes. We further identified conserved charged residues within TMD0 transmembrane helices that are essential for individual steps of lysosomal targeting. Substitutions of these residues retained TAPL in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) or Golgi. We also observed that for release from the ER, a salt bridge between Asp-17 and Arg-57 is essential. An interactome analysis revealed that Yip1-interacting factor homolog B membrane-trafficking protein (YIF1B) interacts with TAPL. We also found that YIF1B is involved in ER-to-Golgi trafficking and interacts with TMD0 of TAPL via its transmembrane domain and that this interaction strongly depends on the newly identified salt bridge within TMD0. These results expand our knowledge about lysosomal trafficking of TAPL and the general function of extra transmembrane domains of ABC transporters.
PXD012441	30877198	The chaperone ERp29 is required for tunneling nanotube formation by stabilizing MSec. 	MSec interactome -  The chaperone ERp29 is required for tunneling nanotube formationby stabilizingMSec	ESI-LC-MS, Human cellular interactome, SBP affinity purification	Tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) are membrane conduits that mediate long-distance intercellular cross-talk in several organisms and play vital roles during development, pathogenic transmission, and cancer metastasis. However, the molecular mechanisms of TNT formation and function remain poorly understood. The protein MSec (also known as TNFalpha-induced protein 2 (TNFAIP2) and B94) is essential for TNT formation in multiple cell types. Here, using affinity protein purification, mass spectrometric identification, and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy assays, we found that MSec interacts with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone ERp29. siRNA-mediated ERp29 depletion in mammalian cells significantly reduces TNT formation, whereas its overexpression induces TNT formation, but in a strictly MSec-dependent manner. ERp29 stabilized MSec protein levels, but not its mRNA levels, and the chaperone activity of ERp29 was required for maintaining MSec protein stability. Subcellular ER fractionation and subsequent limited proteolytic treatment suggested that MSec is associated with the outer surface of the ER. The ERp29-MSec interaction appeared to require the presence of other bridging protein(s), perhaps triggered by post-translational modification of ERp29. Our study implicates MSec as a target of ERp29 and reveals an indispensable role for the ER in TNT formation, suggesting new modalities for regulating TNT numbers in cells and tissues.
PXD012415	30879067	Heterogeneous clinical phenotypes and cerebral malformations reflected by rotatin cellular dynamics. 	Dynamic role of Rotatin in mitosis, ciliogenesis and nucleokinesis correlates with variable mutant cerebral phenotypes.	Rotatin, ciliogenesis, mitosis, nucleokinesis	Recessive mutations in RTTN, encoding the protein rotatin, were originally identified as cause of polymicrogyria, a cortical malformation. With time, a wide variety of other brain malformations has been ascribed to RTTN mutations, including primary microcephaly. Rotatin is a centrosomal protein possibly involved in centriolar elongation and ciliogenesis. However, the function of rotatin in brain development is largely unknown and the molecular disease mechanism underlying cortical malformations has not yet been elucidated. We performed both clinical and cell biological studies, aimed at clarifying rotatin function and pathogenesis. Review of the 23 published and five unpublished clinical cases and genomic mutations, including the effect of novel deep intronic pathogenic mutations on RTTN transcripts, allowed us to extrapolate the core phenotype, consisting of intellectual disability, short stature, microcephaly, lissencephaly, periventricular heterotopia, polymicrogyria and other malformations. We show that the severity of the phenotype is related to residual function of the protein, not only the level of mRNA expression. Skin fibroblasts from eight affected individuals were studied by high resolution immunomicroscopy and flow cytometry, in parallel with in vitro expression of RTTN in HEK293T cells. We demonstrate that rotatin regulates different phases of the cell cycle and is mislocalized in affected individuals. Mutant cells showed consistent and severe mitotic failure with centrosome amplification and multipolar spindle formation, leading to aneuploidy and apoptosis, which could relate to depletion of neuronal progenitors often observed in microcephaly. We confirmed the role of rotatin in functional and structural maintenance of primary cilia and determined that the protein localized not only to the basal body, but also to the axoneme, proving the functional interconnectivity between ciliogenesis and cell cycle progression. Proteomics analysis of both native and exogenous rotatin uncovered that rotatin interacts with the neuronal (non-muscle) myosin heavy chain subunits, motors of nucleokinesis during neuronal migration, and in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived bipolar mature neurons rotatin localizes at the centrosome in the leading edge. This illustrates the role of rotatin in neuronal migration. These different functions of rotatin explain why RTTN mutations can lead to heterogeneous cerebral malformations, both related to proliferation and migration defects.
PXD012671	30879985	Phosphoproteomics Reveals the GSK3-PDX1 Axis as a Key Pathogenic Signaling Node in Diabetic Islets. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals the GSK3-PDX1 axis as a key pathogenic signaling node in diabetic islets	Diabetes, GSK3, Islets, PDX1, insulin secretion, phosphoproteomics, signalling networks	Progressive decline of pancreatic beta cell function is central to the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. Protein phosphorylation regulates glucose-stimulated insulin secretion from beta cells, but how signaling networks are remodeled in diabetic islets in vivo remains unknown. Using high-sensitivity mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we quantified 6,500 proteins and 13,000 phosphopeptides in islets of obese diabetic mice and matched controls, revealing drastic remodeling of key kinase hubs and signaling pathways. Integration with a literature-derived signaling network implicated GSK3 kinase in the control of the beta cell-specific transcription factor PDX1. Deep phosphoproteomic analysis of human islets chronically treated with high glucose demonstrated a conserved glucotoxicity-dependent role of GSK3 kinase in regulating insulin secretion. Remarkably, the ability of beta cells to secrete insulin in response to glucose was rescued almost completely by pharmacological inhibition of GSK3. Thus, our resource enables investigation of mechanisms and drug targets in type 2 diabetes.
PXD011381	30880025	Ptpn21 Controls Hematopoietic Stem Cell Homeostasis and Biomechanics. 	The role of ptpn21 in hematopoietic stem cells	biomechanics, ptpn21, septin1	Hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) quiescence is a tightly regulated process crucial for hematopoietic regeneration, which requires a healthy and supportive microenvironmental niche within the bone marrow (BM). Here, we show that deletion of Ptpn21, a protein tyrosine phosphatase highly expressed in HSCs, induces stem cell egress from the niche due to impaired retention within the BM. Ptpn21(-/-) HSCs exhibit enhanced mobility, decreased quiescence, increased apoptosis, and defective reconstitution capacity. Ptpn21 deletion also decreased HSC stiffness and increased physical deformability, in part by dephosphorylating Spetin1 (Tyr(246)), a poorly described component of the cytoskeleton. Elevated phosphorylation of Spetin1 in Ptpn21(-/-) cells impaired cytoskeletal remodeling, contributed to cortical instability, and decreased cell rigidity. Collectively, these findings show that Ptpn21 maintains cellular mechanics, which is correlated with its important functions in HSC niche retention and preservation of hematopoietic regeneration capacity.
PXD010912	30880166	Label-free absolute protein quantification with data-independent acquisition. 	Label-Free Absolute Protein Quantification with Data-Independent Acquisition	Absolute Protein Quantification, DDA, DIA, Liver, Microsome, S9	Despite data-independent acquisition (DIA) has been increasingly used for relative protein quantification, DIA-based label-free absolute quantification method has not been fully established. Here we present a novel DIA method using the TPA algorithm (DIA-TPA) for the absolute quantification of protein expressions in human liver microsomal and S9 samples. To validate this method, both data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and DIA experiments were conducted on 36 individual human liver microsome and S9 samples. The MS2-based DIA-TPA was able to quantify approximately twice as many proteins as the MS1-based DDA-TPA method, whereas protein concentrations determined by the two approaches were comparable. To evaluate the accuracy of the DIA-TPA method, we absolutely quantified carboxylesterase 1 concentrations in human liver S9 fractions using an established SILAC internal standard-based proteomic assay; the SILAC results were consistent with those obtained from DIA-TPA analysis. Finally, we employed a unique algorithm in DIA-TPA to distribute the MS signals from shared peptides to individual proteins or isoforms and successfully applied the method to the absolute quantification of several drug-metabolizing enzymes in human liver microsomes. In sum, the DIA-TPA method not only can absolutely quantify entire proteomes and specific proteins, but also has the capability quantifying proteins with shared peptides. SIGNIFICANCE: Data independent acquisition (DIA) has emerged as a powerful approach for relative protein quantification at the whole proteome level. However, DIA-based label-free absolute protein quantification (APQ) method has not been fully established. In the present study, we present a novel DIA-based label-free APQ approach, named DIA-TPA, with the capability absolutely quantifying proteins with shared peptides. The method was validated by comparing the quantification results of DIA-TPA with that obtained from stable isotope-labeled internal standard-based proteomic assays.
PXD008261	30881868	ILF2 Directly Binds and Stabilizes CREB to Stimulate Malignant Phenotypes of Liver Cancer Cells. 	proteins pulled down by CREB, part 2	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cancer (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP)	Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB) is overexpressed and has an oncogenic role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Interleukin enhancer binding factor 2 (ILF2) has become research hotspot in liver cancer recently. However, it is still unclear whether and how CREB and ILF2 interact with each other. And how this interaction exerts its role in occurrence and development of liver cancer is still unclear. Here, we found that ILF2 directly bound with CREB, and this binding was essential for the malignant phenotypes of liver cancer cells. Moreover, we found that ILF2 acted as one of the upstream proteins of CREB and promoted CREB only in the protein level, whereas ILF2 expression was not regulated by CREB. Mechanistically, ILF2 bound to the pKID domain of CREB and stimulated its phosphorylation at Ser133. Taken together, our study finds a novel interaction between CREB and ILF2 in liver cancer, and this interaction might play a role in the diagnosis and remedy of liver cancer.
PXD012035	30882204	Isotopologue Multipoint Calibration for Proteomics Biomarker Quantification in Clinical Practice. 	Isotopologue multi-point calibration for proteomics biomarker quantification in clinical practice	HER2, SRM, clinical proteomics, internal calibration, isotopologues, targeted proteomics	Targeted proteomics has become the method of choice for biomarker validation in human biopsies due to its high sensitivity, reproducibility, accuracy, and precision. However, for targeted proteomics to be transferred to clinical routine there is the need to reduce its complexity, make its procedures simpler, increase its throughput, and improve its analytical performance. Here we present the Isotopologue Multipoint Calibration (ImCal) quantification strategy, which uses a mix of isotopologue peptides to generate internal multipoint calibration curves for each individual sample and to accurately quantify biomarker peptides in clinical applications without the need of expert supervision. ImCal relies on the use of five different isotopically-labelled peptides of different nominal mass mixed at different concentrations to be used as an internal calibration curve for each endogenous peptide. The use of internal multipoint calibration curves is well-suited for the generation of ready-to-use biomarker kits for clinical applications as it is compatible with both high- and low-resolution mass spectrometers and different levels of endogenous peptide, it eliminates the need for blank matrixes required in external curves, it allows the evaluation of matrix effects and the valid quantification range in each individual sample, and it does not require expert adjustment. We used the ImCal method to quantify HER2 in 35 breast cancer formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded patient samples, revealing a high degree of heterogeneity among patients, which contrasts with the homogeneous immunohistochemistry patient classification. Our work illustrates how an improvement of mass spectrometry methods for biomarker quantification can provide fine-grain patient stratification, and thus better disease diagnostic and prognosis.
PXD011927	30883543	Assembly of a heptameric STRIPAK complex is required for coordination of light-dependent multicellular fungal development with secondary metabolism in Aspergillus nidulans. 	A. nidulans STRIPAK -  Assembly of a heptameric STRIPAK complex is required for coordination of light-dependent multicellular fungal development with secondary metabolism in Aspergillus nidulans	A. nidulans	Eukaryotic striatin forms striatin-interacting phosphatase and kinase (STRIPAK) complexes that control many cellular processes including development, cellular transport, signal transduction, stem cell differentiation and cardiac functions. However, detailed knowledge of complex assembly and its roles in stress responses are currently poorly understood. Here, we discovered six striatin (StrA) interacting proteins (Sips), which form a heptameric complex in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. The complex consists of the striatin scaffold StrA, the Mob3-type kinase coactivator SipA, the SIKE-like protein SipB, the STRIP1/2 homolog SipC, the SLMAP-related protein SipD and the catalytic and regulatory phosphatase 2A subunits SipE (PpgA), and SipF, respectively. Single and double deletions of the complex components result in loss of multicellular light-dependent fungal development, secondary metabolite production (e.g. mycotoxin Sterigmatocystin) and reduced stress responses. sipA (Mob3) deletion is epistatic to strA deletion by supressing all the defects caused by the lack of striatin. The STRIPAK complex, which is established during vegetative growth and maintained during the early hours of light and dark development, is mainly formed on the nuclear envelope in the presence of the scaffold StrA. The loss of the scaffold revealed three STRIPAK subcomplexes: (I) SipA only interacts with StrA, (II) SipB-SipD is found as a heterodimer, (III) SipC, SipE and SipF exist as a heterotrimeric complex. The STRIPAK complex is required for proper expression of the heterotrimeric VeA-VelB-LaeA complex which coordinates fungal development and secondary metabolism. Furthermore, the STRIPAK complex modulates two important MAPK pathways by promoting phosphorylation of MpkB and restricting nuclear shuttling of MpkC in the absence of stress conditions. SipB in A. nidulans is similar to human suppressor of IKK-epsilon(SIKE) protein which supresses antiviral responses in mammals, while velvet family proteins show strong similarity to mammalian proinflammatory NF-KB proteins. The presence of these proteins in A. nidulans further strengthens the hypothesis that mammals and fungi use similar proteins for their immune response and secondary metabolite production, respectively.
PXD010471	30883802	Human chorionic gonadotrophin pharmaceutical formulations of urinary origin display high levels of contaminant proteins-A label-free quantitation proteomics study. 	Background Proteins in Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin Pharmaceutical Formulations of Different Origin	contaminants, gonadotrophin, in-vitro fertilization, urine	To determine whether there is a measurable protein background in different formulations of urinary and recombinant human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). Primary outcome measures: identification of contaminant proteins in urinary-derived formulations of hCG; secondary outcome measures: quantitative values of contaminant proteins in different batches of urinary -derived hCG formulations. It was found that urinary-derived batches have high presence of contaminant proteins beside the active substance. The relative amount of contaminant proteins and hCG differs strongly between different batches.
PXD009875	30884231	Evaluating Chromatographic Approaches for the Quantitative Analysis of a Human Proteome on Orbitrap-Based Mass Spectrometry Systems. 	Optimizing chromatographic conditions for orbitrap-based MS platforms	Chromatography, Data-Dependent Acquisition, Fusion Lumos, Pearson Product-Moment Correlation Coefficient, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, Q Exactive, Reproducibility, distr, machine learning	The Orbitrap is now a core component of several different instruments. However, evaluating the capabilities of each system is lacking in the field. Here, we compared the performance of multidimensional protein identification (MudPIT) on Velos Pro Orbitrap and Velos Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometers to reversed phase liquid chromatography (RPLC) on a Q-Exactive Plus and an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos. Using HeLa cell protein digests, we carried out triplicate analyses of 16 different chromatography conditions on four different instrumentation platforms. We first optimized RPLC conditions by varying column lengths, inner diameters, and particle sizes. We found that smaller particle sizes improve results but only with smaller inner diameter microcapillary columns. We then selected one chromatography condition on each system and varied gradient lengths. We used distributed normalized spectral abundance factor (dNSAF) values to determine quantitative reproducibility. With Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient r values routinely above 0.96, single RPLC on both the QE+ and Orbitrap Lumos outperformed MudPIT on the Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer. In addition, when comparing dNSAF values measured for the same proteins across the different platforms, RPLC on the Orbitrap Lumos had greater sensitivity than MudPIT, as demonstrated by the detection and quantification of histone deacetylase complex components. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier 10.6019/PXD009875.
PXD010820	30885991	O-GlcNAcylation Enhances Double-Strand Break Repair, Promotes Cancer Cell Proliferation, and Prevents Therapy-Induced Senescence in Irradiated Tumors. 	O-GlcNAcylation enhances double strand break repair, promotes cancer cell proliferation and prevents therapy-induced senescence in irradiated tumors	Chromatin Modification, DNA repair, HBP pathway, LFQ Quantification, O-GlcNAcylation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Q-Exactive, shOGA, shOGT	The metabolic reprogramming associated with characteristic increases in glucose and glutamine metabolism in advanced cancer is often ascribed to answering a higher demand for metabolic intermediates required for rapid tumor cell growth. Instead, recent discoveries have pointed to an alternative role for glucose and glutamine metabolites as cofactors for chromatin modifiers and other protein posttranslational modification enzymes in cancer cells. Beyond epigenetic mechanisms regulating gene expression, many chromatin modifiers also modulate DNA repair, raising the question whether cancer metabolic reprogramming may mediate resistance to genotoxic therapy and genomic instability. Our prior work had implicated N-acetyl-glucosamine (GlcNAc) formation by the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway (HBP) and resulting protein O-GlcNAcylation as a common means by which increased glucose and glutamine metabolism can drive double-strand break (DSB) repair and resistance to therapy-induced senescence in cancer cells. We have examined the effects of modulating O-GlcNAcylation on the DNA damage response (DDR) in MCF7 human mammary carcinoma in vitro and in xenograft tumors. Proteomic profiling revealed deregulated DDR pathways in cells with altered O-GlcNAcylation. Promoting protein O-GlcNAc modification by targeting O-GlcNAcase or simply treating animals with GlcNAc protected tumor xenografts against radiation. In turn, suppressing protein O-GlcNAcylation by blocking O-GlcNAc transferase activity led to delayed DSB repair, reduced cell proliferation, and increased cell senescence in vivo. Taken together, these findings confirm critical connections between cancer metabolic reprogramming, DDR, and senescence and provide a rationale to evaluate agents targeting O-GlcNAcylation in patients as a means to restore tumor sensitivity to radiotherapy. IMPLICATIONS: The finding that the HBP, via its impact on protein O-GlcNAcylation, is a key determinant of the DDR in cancer provides a mechanistic link between metabolic reprogramming, genomic instability, and therapeutic response and suggests novel therapeutic approaches for tumor radiosensitization.
PXD006922	30886083	Multiplex targeted mass spectrometry assay for one-shot flavivirus diagnosis. 	A multiplex targeted mass spectrometry assay for one-shot flavivirus diagnosis	Dengue, Targeted proteomics, flavivirus.	Targeted proteomic mass spectrometry is emerging as a salient clinical diagnostic tool to track protein biomarkers. However, its strong analytical properties have not been exploited in the diagnosis and typing of flaviviruses. Here, we report the development of a sensitive and specific single-shot robust assay for flavivirus typing and diagnosis using targeted mass spectrometry technology. Our flavivirus parallel reaction monitoring assay (fvPRM) has the ability to track secreted flaviviral nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) over a broad diagnostic and typing window with high sensitivity, specificity, extendibility, and multiplexing capability. These features, pivotal and pertinent to efficient response toward flavivirus outbreaks, including newly emerging flavivirus strains, circumvent the limitations of current diagnostic assays. fvPRM thus carries high potential in positioning itself as a forerunner in delivering early and accurate diagnosis for disease management.
PXD012729	30886146	UFL1 promotes histone H4 ufmylation and ATM activation. 	Identify UFM1 targeted protein	293t cell, ufm1	The ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase, an upstream kinase of the DNA damage response (DDR), is rapidly activated following DNA damage, and phosphorylates its downstream targets to launch DDR signaling. However, the mechanism of ATM activation is still not completely understood. Here we report that UFM1 specific ligase 1 (UFL1), an ufmylation E3 ligase, is important for ATM activation. UFL1 is recruited to double strand breaks by the MRE11/RAD50/NBS1 complex, and monoufmylates histone H4 following DNA damage. Monoufmylated histone H4 is important for Suv39h1 and Tip60 recruitment. Furthermore, ATM phosphorylates UFL1 at serine 462, enhancing UFL1 E3 ligase activity and promoting ATM activation in a positive feedback loop. These findings reveal that ufmylation of histone H4 by UFL1 is an important step for amplification of ATM activation and maintenance of genomic integrity.
PXD011763	30886150	Nitric oxide-dependent anaerobic ammonium oxidation. 	Nitric oxide-dependent anaerobic ammonium oxidation	Anammox, Kuenenia Stuttgartiensis	Nitric oxide (NO) has important functions in biology and atmospheric chemistry as a toxin, signaling molecule, ozone depleting agent and the precursor of the greenhouse gas nitrous oxide (N2O). Although NO is a potent oxidant, and was available on Earth earlier than oxygen, it is unclear whether NO can be used by microorganisms for growth. Anaerobic ammonium-oxidizing (anammox) bacteria couple nitrite reduction to ammonium oxidation with NO and hydrazine as intermediates, and produce N2 and nitrate. Here, we show that the anammox bacterium Kuenenia stuttgartiensis is able to grow in the absence of nitrite by coupling ammonium oxidation to NO reduction, and produce only N2. Under these growth conditions, the transcription of proteins necessary for NO generation is downregulated. Our work has potential implications in the control of N2O and NO emissions from natural and manmade ecosystems, where anammox bacteria contribute significantly to N2 release to the atmosphere. We hypothesize that microbial NO-dependent ammonium oxidation may have existed on early Earth.
PXD011789	30886345	Mitochondrial protein-induced stress triggers a global adaptive transcriptional programme. 	Mitoprotein-induced stress launches a global transcriptional fail-safe program	Chaperones, Mitochondria, Oxidative Phosphorylation, Proteasome, Protein Import, Stress Response	The cytosolic accumulation of mitochondrial precursors is hazardous to cellular fitness and is associated with a number of diseases. However, it is not observed under physiological conditions. Individual mechanisms that allow cells to avoid cytosolic accumulation of mitochondrial precursors have recently been discovered, but their interplay and regulation remain elusive. Here, we show that cells rapidly launch a global transcriptional programme to restore cellular proteostasis after induction of a 'clogger' protein that reduces the number of available mitochondrial import sites. Cells upregulate the protein folding and proteolytic systems in the cytosol and downregulate both the cytosolic translation machinery and many mitochondrial metabolic enzymes, presumably to relieve the workload of the overstrained mitochondrial import system. We show that this transcriptional remodelling is a combination of a 'wideband' core response regulated by the transcription factors Hsf1 and Rpn4 and a unique mitoprotein-induced downregulation of the oxidative phosphorylation components, mediated by an inactivation of the HAP complex.
PXD012560	30886426	A genome-wide algal mutant library and functional screen identifies genes required for eukaryotic photosynthesis. 	Chlamydomonas cpl3 mutant proteomics	Chlamydomonas, LC-MS, TMT labeling, algae, photosynthesis	Photosynthetic organisms provide food and energy for nearly all life on Earth, yet half of their protein-coding genes remain uncharacterized(1,2). Characterization of these genes could be greatly accelerated by new genetic resources for unicellular organisms. Here we generated a genome-wide, indexed library of mapped insertion mutants for the unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. The 62,389 mutants in the library, covering 83% of nuclear protein-coding genes, are available to the community. Each mutant contains unique DNA barcodes, allowing the collection to be screened as a pool. We performed a genome-wide survey of genes required for photosynthesis, which identified 303 candidate genes. Characterization of one of these genes, the conserved predicted phosphatase-encoding gene CPL3, showed that it is important for accumulation of multiple photosynthetic protein complexes. Notably, 21 of the 43 higher-confidence genes are novel, opening new opportunities for advances in understanding of this biogeochemically fundamental process. This library will accelerate the characterization of thousands of genes in algae, plants, and animals.
PXD013025	30889856	Comparative Transcriptome Combined with Proteome Analyses Revealed Key Factors Involved in Alfalfa (Medicago sativa) Response to Waterlogging Stress. 	Comparative Transcriptome Combined with Proteome Analyses Revealed Key Factors Involved in Alfalfa (Medicago sativa) Response to Waterlogging Stress	Alfalfa, Molecular mechanism, Transcriptome, Waterlogging	Alfalfa (Medicago sativa) is the most widely grown and most important forage crop in the world. However, alfalfa is susceptible to waterlogging stress, which is the major constraint for its cultivation area and crop production. So far, the molecular mechanism of alfalfa response to the waterlogging is largely unknown. Here, comparative transcriptome combined with proteomic analyses of two cultivars (M12, tolerant; M25, sensitive) of alfalfa showing contrasting tolerance to waterlogging were performed to understand the mechanism of alfalfa in response to waterlogging stress. Totally, 748 (581 up- and 167 down-regulated) genes were differentially expressed in leaves of waterlogging-stressed alfalfa compared with the control (M12_W vs. M12_CK), whereas 1193 (740 up- and 453 down-regulated) differentially abundant transcripts (DATs) were detected in the leaves of waterlogging-stressed plants in comparison with the control plants (M25_W vs. M25_CK). Furthermore, a total of 187 (122 up- and 65 down-regulated) and 190 (105 up- and 85 down-regulated) differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified via isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) method in M12_W vs. M12_CK and M25_W vs. M25_CK comparison, respectively. Compared dataset analysis of proteomics and transcriptomics revealed that 27 and eight genes displayed jointly up-regulated or down-regulated expression profiles at both mRNA and protein levels in M12_W vs. M12_CK comparison, whereas 30 and 27 genes were found to be co-up-regulated or co-down-regulated in M25_W vs. M25_CK comparison, respectively. The strongly enriched Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways for co-up-regulated genes at mRNA and protein levels in M12_W vs. M12_CK comparison were 'Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism', 'Arginine and proline metabolism' and 'Starch and sucrose metabolism', whereas co-up-regulated protein-related pathways including 'Arginine and proline metabolism' and 'Valine, leucine and isoleucine degradation' were largely enriched in M25_W vs. M25_CK comparison. Importantly, the identified genes related to beta-amylase, Ethylene response Factor (ERF), Calcineurin B-like (CBL) interacting protein kinases (CIPKs), Glutathione peroxidase (GPX), and Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) may play key roles in conferring alfalfa tolerance to waterlogging stress. The present study may contribute to our understanding the molecular mechanism underlying the responses of alfalfa to waterlogging stress, and also provide important clues for further study and in-depth characterization of waterlogging-resistance breeding candidate genes in alfalfa.
PXD010747	30890563	Reductive Stress Selectively Disrupts Collagen Homeostasis and Modifies Growth Factor-independent Signaling Through the MAPK/Akt Pathway in Human Dermal Fibroblasts. 	SWATH proteomics reveals that reductants selectively disrupt collagen homeostasis in human dermal fibroblasts and modify growth factor-independent signalling through the MAPK/Akt pathway	MAPK, PDGF, SWATH, collagen, redox signalling, skin fibroblasts	Redox stress is a well-known contributor to aging and diseases in skin. Reductants such as dithiothreitol (DTT) can trigger a stress response by disrupting disulfide bonds. However, the quantitative response of the cellular proteome to reductants has not been explored, particularly in cells such as fibroblasts that produce extracellular matrix proteins. Here, we have used a robust, unbiased, label-free SWATH-MS proteomic approach to quantitate the response of skin fibroblast cells to DTT in the presence or absence of the growth factor PDGF. Of the 4487 proteins identified, only 42 proteins showed a statistically significant change of 2-fold or more with reductive stress. Our proteomics data show that reductive stress results in the loss of a small subset of reductant-sensitive proteins (including the collagens COL1A1/2 and COL3A1, and the myopathy-associated collagens COL6A1/2/3), and the down-regulation of targets downstream of the MAPK pathway. We show that a reducing environment alters signaling through the PDGF-associated MAPK/Akt pathways, inducing chronic dephosphorylation of ERK1/2 at Thr202/Tyr204 and phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473 in a growth factor-independent manner. Our data highlights collagens as sentinel molecules for redox stress downstream of MAPK/Akt, and identifies intervention points to modulate the redox environment to target skin diseases and conditions associated with erroneous matrix deposition.
PXD010683	30890564	Quantitative Proteomics Links the Intermediate Filament Nestin to Resistance to Targeted BRAF Inhibition in Melanoma Cells. 	Quantitative proteomics links the intermediate filament nestin to vemurafenib resistance in melanoma cell lines	cytoskeletal proteins, drug resistance, melanoma	Targeted inhibition of mutated kinases using selective MAP kinase inhibitors in malignant melanoma often results in temporary improvement of clinical symptoms followed by rapid development of resistance. To gain insights in molecular processes that govern resistance, we performed SILAC-based quantitative proteomics profiling of vemurafenib-resistant and -sensitive melanoma cells. Among downregulated proteins in vemurafenib-resistant cell lines we detected multiple proteins involved in cytoskeletal organization and signaling, including the intermediate filament nestin, which was one of the most downregulated proteins. Previous studies showed that nestin is expressed in various types of solid tumors and its abundance correlates with malignant phenotype of transformed cells. However, the role of nestin in cancer cells regarding acquired resistance is still poorly understood. We performed CRISPR/Cas9 knockout of the nestin gene (NES) in vemurafenib-sensitive cells and showed that loss of nestin leads to increased cellular proliferation and colony formation upon treatment with BRAF(V600E) and MEK inhibitors. Moreover, nestin depletion led to increased invasiveness and metalloproteinase activity like the phenotype of melanoma cells with acquired resistance to the BRAF inhibitor. Finally, phosphoproteome analysis revealed that nestin depletion influenced signaling through integrin and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and led to increased focal adhesion kinase abundance and phosphorylation. Taken together, our results reveal that nestin is associated with acquired vemurafenib resistance in melanoma cells.
PXD008892	30890939	Biochemical Pathways Triggered by Antipsychotics in Human [corrected] Oligodendrocytes: Potential of Discovering New Treatment Targets. 	Biochemical Pathways Triggered by Antipsychotics in Human Oligodendrocytes: Potential of Discovering New Treatment Targets	Schizophrenia, biomarkers, chlorpromazine, haloperidol, mechanism of action, quetiapine, risperidone	Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder that affects more than 21 million people worldwide. It is an incurable disorder and the primary means of managing symptoms is through administration of pharmacological treatments, which consist heavily of antipsychotics. First-generation antipsychotics have the properties of D2 receptor antagonists. Second-generation antipsychotics are antagonists of both D2 and 5HT2 receptors. Recently, there has been increasing interest in the effects of antipsychotics beyond their neuronal targets and oligodendrocytes are one of the main candidates. Thus, our aim was to evaluate the molecular effects of typical and atypical drugs across the proteome of the human oligodendrocyte cell line, MO3.13. For this, we performed a mass spectrometry-based, bottom-up shotgun proteomic analysis to identify differences triggered by typical (chlorpromazine and haloperidol) and atypical (quetiapine and risperidone) antipsychotics. Proteins which showed changes in their expression levels were analyzed in silico using Ingenuity((R)) Pathway Analysis, which implicated dysregulation of canonical pathways for each treatment. Our results shed light on the biochemical pathways involved in the mechanisms of action of these drugs, which may guide the identification of novel biomarkers and the development of new and improved treatments.
PXD008613	30891005	The Selection of a Hepatocyte Cell Line Susceptible to Plasmodium falciparum Sporozoite Invasion That Is Associated With Expression of Glypican-3. 	Malaria Hepatocyte HC-04.J7 Project	Hepatocyte, Human Liver, Malaria, Plasmodium falciparum	In vitro studies of liver stage (LS) development of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum are technically challenging; therefore, fundamental questions about hepatocyte receptors for invasion that can be targeted to prevent infection remain unanswered. To identify novel receptors and to further understand human hepatocyte susceptibility to P. falciparum sporozoite invasion, we created an optimized in vitro system by mimicking in vivo liver conditions and using the subcloned HC-04.J7 cell line that supports mean infection rates of 3-5% and early development of P. falciparum exoerythrocytic forms-a 3- to 5-fold improvement on current in vitro hepatocarcinoma models for P. falciparum invasion. We juxtaposed this invasion-susceptible cell line with an invasion-resistant cell line (HepG2) and performed comparative proteomics and RNA-seq analyses to identify host cell surface molecules and pathways important for sporozoite invasion of host cells. We identified and investigated a hepatocyte cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycan, glypican-3, as a putative mediator of sporozoite invasion. We also noted the involvement of pathways that implicate the importance of the metabolic state of the hepatocyte in supporting LS development. Our study highlights important features of hepatocyte biology, and specifically the potential role of glypican-3, in mediating P. falciparum sporozoite invasion. Additionally, it establishes a simple in vitro system to study the LS with improved invasion efficiency. This work paves the way for the greater malaria and liver biology communities to explore fundamental questions of hepatocyte-pathogen interactions and extend the system to other human malaria parasite species, like P. vivax.
PXD012513	30891008	Proteomic Analysis of Lactobacillus nagelii in the Presence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Isolated From Water Kefir and Comparison With Lactobacillus hordei. 	Proteomic analysis of Lactobacillus nagelii in the presence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae isolated from water kefir and comparison with Lactobacilus hordei	Lactobacillus hordei, Lactobacillus nagelii, functional genome prediction, metabolism, proteomic analysis	Water kefir is a slightly alcoholic and traditionally fermented beverage, which is prepared from sucrose, water, kefir grains, and dried or fresh fruits (e.g., figs). Lactobacillus (L.) nagelii, L. hordei, and Saccharomyces (S.) cerevisiae are predominant and stable lactic acid bacteria and yeasts, respectively, isolated from water kefir consortia. The growth of L. nagelii and L. hordei are improved in the presence of S. cerevisiae. In this work we demonstrate that quantitative comparative proteomics enables the investigation of interactions between LAB and yeast to predict real-time metabolic exchange in water kefir. It revealed 73 differentially expressed (DE) in L. nagelii TMW 1.1827 in the presence of S. cerevisiae. The presence of the yeast induced changes in the changes in the carbohydrate metabolism of L. nagelii and affected reactions involved in NAD(+)/NADH homeostasis. Furthermore, the DE enzymes involved in amino acid biosynthesis or catabolism predict that S. cerevisiae releases glutamine, histidine, methionine, and arginine, which are subsequently used by L. nagelii to ensure its survival in the water kefir consortium. In co-culture with S. cerevisiae, L. nagelii profits from riboflavin, most likely secreted by the yeast. The reaction of L. nagelii to the presence of S. cerevisiae differs from that one of the previously studied L. hordei, which displays 233 differentially expressed proteins, changes in citrate metabolism and an antidromic strategy for NAD(+)/NADH homeostasis. So far, aggregation promotion factors, i.e., formation of a specific glucan and bifunctional enzymes were only detected in L. hordei.
PXD009324	30892045	Proteomic Analysis of Human Plasma during Intermittent Fasting. 	3D-Printed Device for Consistent and High-Throughput Peptide Sample Clean-up Using StageTips	3D-Printed, 96-well, StageTip	Intermittent fasting (IF) increases lifespan and decreases metabolic disease phenotypes and cancer risk in model organisms, but the health benefits of IF in humans are less clear. Human plasma derived from clinical trials is one of the most difficult sample sets to analyze using mass spectrometry-based proteomics due to the extensive sample preparation required and the need to process many samples to achieve statistical significance. Here, we describe an optimized and accessible device (Spin96) to accommodate up to 96 StageTips, a widely used sample preparation medium enabling efficient and consistent processing of samples prior to LC-MS/MS. We have applied this device to the analysis of human plasma from a clinical trial of IF. In this longitudinal study employing 8-weeks IF, we identified significant abundance differences induced by the IF intervention, including increased apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4) and decreased apolipoprotein C2 (APOC2) and C3 (APOC3). These changes correlated with a significant decrease in plasma triglycerides after the IF intervention. Given that these proteins have a role in regulating apolipoprotein particle metabolism, we propose that IF had a positive effect on lipid metabolism through modulation of HDL particle size and function. In addition, we applied a novel human protein variant database to detect common protein variants across the participants. We show that consistent detection of clinically relevant peptides derived from both alleles of many proteins is possible, including some that are associated with human metabolic phenotypes. Together, these findings illustrate the power of accessible workflows for proteomics analysis of clinical samples to yield significant biological insight.
PXD012935	30892048	Serum Metabolomics Study of Nonsmoking Female Patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Using Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry. 	Serum Metabolomics Study of Non-Smoking Female Patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Using a Gas ChromatographyMass Spectrometry	GC-MS, lung, metabolomics, serum	The incidence of nonsmoking female patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has increased in recent decades; however, the pathogenesis of patients is unclear, and early diagnosis biomarkers are in urgent need. In this study, 136 nonsmoking female subjects (65 patients with NSCLC, 6 patients with benign lung tumors, and 65 healthy controls) were enrolled, and their metabolic profiling was investigated by using pseudotargeted gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. A total of 56 annotated metabolites were found and verified to be significantly different in nonsmoking females with NSCLC compared with the control. The metabolic profiling was featured by disturbed energy metabolism, amino acid metabolism, oxidative stress, lipid metabolism, and so on. Cysteine, serine, and 1-monooleoylglycerol were defined as the biomarker panel for the diagnosis of NSCLC patients. 98.5 and 91.4% of subjects were correctly distinguished in the discovery and validation sets, respectively. The biomarker panel was also useful for the diagnosis of in situ malignancy patients, with an accuracy of 97.7 and 97.8% in the discovery and validation sets, respectively. The study provides a biomarker panel for the auxiliary diagnosis of nonsmoking females with NSCLC.
PXD012673	30893604	DBC1 Regulates p53 Stability via Inhibition of CBP-Dependent p53 Polyubiquitination. 	DBC1 regulates p53 stability via inhibition of CBP-dependent p53 polyubiquitination	CBP, DBC1, apoptosis, p53, ubiquitin	The control of p53 protein stability is critical to its tumor suppressor functions. The CREB binding protein (CBP) transcriptional co-activator co-operates with MDM2 to maintain normally low physiological p53 levels in cells via exclusively cytoplasmic E4 polyubiquitination activity. Using mass spectrometry to identify nuclear and cytoplasmic CBP-interacting proteins that regulate compartmentalized CBP E4 activity, we identified deleted in breast cancer 1 (DBC1) as a stoichiometric CBP-interacting protein that negatively regulates CBP-dependent p53 polyubiquitination, stabilizes p53, and augments p53-dependent apoptosis. TCGA analysis demonstrated that solid tumors often retain wild-type p53 alleles in conjunction with DBC1 loss, supporting the hypothesis that DBC1 is selected for disruption during carcinogenesis as a surrogate for p53 functional loss. Because DBC1 maintains p53 stability in the nucleus, where p53 exerts its tumor-suppressive transcriptional function, replacement of DBC1 functionality in DBC1-deleted tumors might enhance p53 function and chemosensitivity for therapeutic benefit.
PXD012886	30893800	The Dual Prey-Inactivation Strategy of Spiders-In-Depth Venomic Analysis of Cupiennius salei. 	The dual prey-inactivation strategy of spiders - In-depth venomic analysis of Cupiennius salei	Cupiennius salei spider venom	Most knowledge of spider venom concerns neurotoxins acting on ion channels, whereas proteins and their significance for the envenomation process are neglected. The here presented comprehensive analysis of the venom gland transcriptome and proteome of Cupiennius salei focusses on proteins and cysteine-containing peptides and offers new insight into the structure and function of spider venom, here described as the dual prey-inactivation strategy. After venom injection, many enzymes and proteins, dominated by alpha-amylase, angiotensin-converting enzyme, and cysteine-rich secretory proteins, interact with main metabolic pathways, leading to a major disturbance of the cellular homeostasis. Hyaluronidase and cytolytic peptides destroy tissue and membranes, thus supporting the spread of other venom compounds. We detected 81 transcripts of neurotoxins from 13 peptide families, whereof two families comprise 93.7% of all cysteine-containing peptides. This raises the question of the importance of the other low-expressed peptide families. The identification of a venom gland-specific defensin-like peptide and an aga-toxin-like peptide in the hemocytes offers an important clue on the recruitment and neofunctionalization of body proteins and peptides as the origin of toxins.
PXD012768	30893822	Effect of MSCs and MSC-Derived Extracellular Vesicles on Human Blood Coagulation. 	Effect of MSC and MSC-derived extracellular vesicles on human blood coagulation	Mesenchymal stem cells, vesicles	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have emerged as a potent therapeutic tool for the treatment of a number of pathologies, including immune pathologies. However, unwelcome effects of MSCs on blood coagulation have been reported, motivating us to explore the thrombotic properties of human MSCs from the umbilical cord. We revealed strong procoagulant effects of MSCs on human blood and platelet-free plasma using rotational thromboelastometry and thrombodynamic tests. A similar potentiation of clotting was demonstrated for MSC-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs). To offer approaches to avoid unwanted effects, we studied the impact of a heparin supplement on MSC procoagulative properties. However, MSCs still retained procoagulant activity toward blood from children receiving a therapeutic dose of unfractionated heparin. An analysis of the mechanisms responsible for the procoagulant effect of MSCs/EVs revealed the presence of tissue factor and other proteins involved in coagulation-associated pathways. Also, we found that some MSCs and EVs were positive for annexin V, which implies the presence of phosphatidylserine on their surfaces, which can potentiate clot formation. Thus, we revealed procoagulant activity of MSCs/EVs associated with the presence of phosphatidylserine and tissue factor, which requires further analysis to avoid adverse effects of MSC therapy in patients with a risk of thrombosis.
PXD011100	30895699	Syntrophus aciditrophicus uses the same enzymes in a reversible manner to degrade and synthesize aromatic and alicyclic acids. 	Analyze key proteins in Syntrophus aciditrophicus	environmental bacteria	Syntrophy is essential for the efficient conversion of organic carbon to methane in natural and constructed environments, but little is known about the enzymes involved in syntrophic carbon and electron flow. Syntrophus aciditrophicus strain SB syntrophically degrades benzoate and cyclohexane-1-carboxylate and catalyses the novel synthesis of benzoate and cyclohexane-1-carboxylate from crotonate. We used proteomic, biochemical and metabolomic approaches to determine what enzymes are used for fatty, aromatic and alicyclic acid degradation versus for benzoate and cyclohexane-1-carboxylate synthesis. Enzymes involved in the metabolism of cyclohex-1,5-diene carboxyl-CoA to acetyl-CoA were in high abundance in S. aciditrophicus cells grown in pure culture on crotonate and in coculture with Methanospirillum hungatei on crotonate, benzoate or cyclohexane-1-carboxylate. Incorporation of (13) C-atoms from 1-[(13) C]-acetate into crotonate, benzoate and cyclohexane-1-carboxylate during growth on these different substrates showed that the pathways are reversible. A protein conduit for syntrophic reverse electron transfer from acyl-CoA intermediates to formate was detected. Ligases and membrane-bound pyrophosphatases make pyrophosphate needed for the synthesis of ATP by an acetyl-CoA synthetase. Syntrophus aciditrophicus, thus, uses a core set of enzymes that operates close to thermodynamic equilibrium to conserve energy in a novel and highly efficient manner.
PXD011850	30898438	MDC1 Interacts with TOPBP1 to Maintain Chromosomal Stability during Mitosis. 	MDC1 interacts with TOPBP1 to maintain chromosomal stability during mitosis	MDC1 TOPBP1 Mitosis	In mitosis, cells inactivate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathways to preserve genome stability. However, some early signaling events still occur, such as recruitment of the scaffold protein MDC1 to phosphorylated histone H2AX at DSBs. Yet, it remains unclear whether these events are important for maintaining genome stability during mitosis. Here, we identify a highly conserved protein-interaction surface in MDC1 that is phosphorylated by CK2 and recognized by the DNA-damage response mediator protein TOPBP1. Disruption of MDC1-TOPBP1 binding causes a specific loss of TOPBP1 recruitment to DSBs in mitotic but not interphase cells, accompanied by mitotic radiosensitivity, increased micronuclei, and chromosomal instability. Mechanistically, we find that TOPBP1 forms filamentous structures capable of bridging MDC1 foci in mitosis, indicating that MDC1-TOPBP1 complexes tether DSBs until repair is reactivated in the following G1 phase. Thus, we reveal an important, hitherto-unnoticed cooperation between MDC1 and TOPBP1 in maintaining genome stability during cell division.
PXD010816	30898901	Damage on plants activates Ca(2+)-dependent metacaspases for release of immunomodulatory peptides. 	Release of the plant peptide hormone PEP1 from its precursor PROPEP1 in response to physical damage is due to Ca2+-dependent activation of METACASPASE4.	METACASPASE4, PROPEP, physical damage, protease, proteolysis	Physical damage to cells leads to the release of immunomodulatory peptides to elicit a wound defense response in the surrounding tissue. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the plant elicitor peptide 1 (Pep1) is processed from its protein precursor, PRECURSOR OF PEP1 (PROPEP1). We demonstrate that upon damage, both at the tissue and single-cell levels, the cysteine protease METACASPASE4 (MC4) is instantly and spatiotemporally activated by binding high levels of Ca(2+) and is necessary and sufficient for Pep1 maturation. Cytosol-localized PROPEP1 and MC4 react only after loss of plasma membrane integrity and prolonged extracellular Ca(2+) entry. Our results reveal that a robust mechanism consisting of conserved molecular components links the intracellular and Ca(2+)-dependent activation of a specific cysteine protease with the maturation of damage-induced wound defense signals.
PXD011914	30899001	A post-translational modification of human Norovirus capsid protein attenuates glycan binding. 	Interactions of human norovirus capsid P domain with histo-blood group antigens with Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry	GII.4 Saga, HDX MS, P domain, histo-blood group antigens, human norovirus	Attachment of human noroviruses to histo blood group antigens (HBGAs) is essential for infection, but how this binding event promotes the infection of host cells is unknown. Here, we employ protein NMR experiments supported by mass spectrometry and crystallography to study HBGA binding to the P-domain of a prevalent virus strain (GII.4). We report a highly selective transformation of asparagine 373, located in an antigenic loop adjoining the HBGA binding site, into an iso-aspartate residue. This spontaneous post-translational modification (PTM) proceeds with an estimated half-life of a few days at physiological temperatures, independent of the presence of HBGAs but dramatically affecting HBGA recognition. Sequence conservation and the surface-exposed position of this PTM suggest an important role in infection and immune recognition for many norovirus strains.
PXD011533	30899004	Capturing site-specific heterogeneity with large-scale N-glycoproteome analysis. 	Glycoproteomics with AI-ETD -  Capturing site-specific heterogeneity with large-scale N-glycoproteome analysis	electron transfer dissociation, glycopeptides, glycosylation	Protein glycosylation is a highly important, yet poorly understood protein post-translational modification. Thousands of possible glycan structures and compositions create potential for tremendous site heterogeneity. A lack of suitable analytical methods for large-scale analyses of intact glycopeptides has limited our abilities both to address the degree of heterogeneity across the glycoproteome and to understand how this contributes biologically to complex systems. Here we show that N-glycoproteome site-specific microheterogeneity can be captured via large-scale glycopeptide profiling methods enabled by activated ion electron transfer dissociation (AI-ETD), ultimately characterizing 1,545 N-glycosites (>5,600 unique N-glycopeptides) from mouse brain tissue. Our data reveal that N-glycosylation profiles can differ between subcellular regions and structural domains and that N-glycosite heterogeneity manifests in several different forms, including dramatic differences in glycosites on the same protein. Moreover, we use this large-scale glycoproteomic dataset to develop several visualizations that will prove useful for analyzing intact glycopeptides in future studies.
PXD011890	30901149	The Protein Phosphorylation Landscape of Mouse Spermatids during Spermiogenesis. 	Protein phosphorylation landscape of mouse spermatids during spermiogenesis	mouse spermatids, phosphorylation, spermiogenesis	The characteristic tadpole shape of sperm is formed from round spermatids via spermiogenesis, a process which results in dramatic morphological changes in the final stage of spermatogenesis in the testis. Protein phosphorylation, as one of the most important post-translational modifications, can regulate spermiogenesis; however, the phosphorylation events taking place during this process have not been systematically analyzed. In order to better understand the role of phosphorylation in spermiogenesis, large-scale phosphoproteome profiling is performed using IMAC and TiO2 enrichment. In total, 13 835 phosphorylation sites, in 4196 phosphoproteins, are identified in purified mouse spermatids undergoing spermiogenesis in two biological replicates. Overall, 735 testis-specific proteins are identified to be phosphorylated, and are expressed at high levels during spermiogenesis. Gene ontology analysis shows enrichment of the identified phosphoproteins in terms of histone modification, cilium organization, centrosome and the adherens junction. Further characterization of the kinase-substrate phosphorylation network demonstrates enrichment of phosphorylation substrates related to the regulation of spermiogenesis. This global protein phosphorylation landscape of spermiogenesis shows wide phosphoregulation across a diverse range of processes during spermiogenesis and can help to further characterize the process of sperm generation. All MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD011890.
PXD011952	30901150	Combining Rapid Data Independent Acquisition and CRISPR Gene Deletion for Studying Potential Protein Functions: A Case of HMGN1. 	Rapid Proteomic Screen of CRISPR Experiment Outcome by Data Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry: A Case Study for HMGN1	CRISPR, DIA, HMGN1	CRISPR-Cas gene editing holds substantial promise in many biomedical disciplines and basic research. Due to the important functional implications of non-histone chromosomal protein HMG-14 (HMGN1) in regulating chromatin structure and tumor immunity, gene knockout of HMGN1 is performed by CRISPR in cancer cells and the following proteomic regulation events are studied. In particular, DIA mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) is utilized, and more than 6200 proteins (protein- FDR 1%) and more than 82 000 peptide precursors are reproducibly measured in the single MS shots of 2 h. HMGN1 protein deletion is confidently verified by DIA-MS in all of the clone- and dish- replicates following CRISPR. Statistical analysis reveals 147 proteins change their expressions significantly after HMGN1 knockout. Functional annotation and enrichment analysis indicate the deletion of HMGN1 induces histone inactivation, various stress pathways, remodeling of extracellular proteomes, cell proliferation, as well as immune regulation processes such as complement and coagulation cascade and interferon alpha/ gamma response in cancer cells. These results shed new lights on the cellular functions of HMGN1. It is suggested that DIA-MS can be reliably used as a rapid, robust, and cost-effective proteomic-screening tool to assess the outcome of the CRISPR experiments.
PXD011719	30901187	Chemoproteomic Selectivity Profiling of PIKK and PI3K Kinase Inhibitors. 	Chemoproteomic selectivity profiling of PIKK and PI3K kinase inhibitors	"Kinobeads, chemoproteomics", drug profiling	Chemical proteomic approaches utilizing immobilized, broad-selective kinase inhibitors (Kinobeads) have proven valuable for the elucidation of a compound's target profile under close-to-physiological conditions and often revealed potentially synergistic or toxic off-targets. Current Kinobeads enrich more than 300 native protein kinases from cell line or tissue lysates but do not systematically cover phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-related kinases (PIKKs). Some PIKKs and PI3Ks show aberrant activation in many human diseases and are indeed validated drug targets. Here, we report the development of a novel version of Kinobeads that extends kinome coverage to these proteins. This is achieved by inclusion of two affinity probes derived from the clinical PI3K/MTOR inhibitors Omipalisib and BGT226. We demonstrate the utility of the new affinity matrix by the profiling of 13 clinical and preclinical PIKK/PI3K inhibitors. The large discrepancies between the PI3K affinity values obtained and reported results from recombinant assays led us to perform a phosphoproteomic experiment showing that the chemoproteomic assay is the better approximation of PI3K inhibitor action in cellulo. The results further show that NVP-BEZ235 is not a PI3K inhibitor. Surprisingly, the designated ATM inhibitor CP466722 was found to bind strongly to ALK2, identifying a new chemotype for drug discovery to treat fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva.
PXD011846	30901224	Significant Down-Regulation of Urea Cycle Generates Clinically Relevant Proteomic Signature in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients with Macrovascular Invasion. 	Clinically Relevant Proteomic Signature in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients with Macrovascular Invasion	HCC, iTRAQ, macorvascular invasion, molecular mechanisms., proteomic signature, urea cycle	Vascular invasion is considered as the critical risk factor of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). To reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying macrovascular invasion (MaVI) in HCC, we performed an iTRAQ based proteomic study to identify notably dysregulated proteins from eight HCC patients with differential vascular invasion and further confirmed them in the other 53 HCC patients. Forty-seven proteins were found significantly down-regulated in HCC with MaVI. More importantly, 30 of them were not changed in HCC without MaVI. Gene ontology analysis of these 47 proteins shows the top three enriched biological processes are urea cycle, gluconeogenesis, and arginine biosynthetic process. We validated nine remarkably dysregulated candidates in HCC patients with MaVI by Western blot including eight down-regulated proteins (CPS1, ASS1, ASL, ARG1, BHMT, DMGDH, Annexin A6, and CES1) and one up-regulated protein (CKAP4). Furthermore, dysregulation of CPS1, ASL, and ARG1, key enzymes involved in urea cycle, together with Annexin A6 and CES1, major proteins in regulating cholesterol homeostasis and fatty acid ester metabolism, was verified using immunohistochemical staining. The significant down-regulation of urea cycle generates clinically relevant proteomic signature in HCC patients with macrovascular invasion, which may provide possible insights into the molecular mechanisms of metastasis and new therapeutic targets of HCC.
PXD006033	30901843	Metaproteomic and 16S rRNA Gene Sequencing Analysis of the Infant Fecal Microbiome. 	Metaproteomic analysis of the infant fecal microbiome	Fecal, Microbiome	A metaproteomic analysis was conducted on the fecal microbiome of eight infants to characterize global protein and pathway expression. Although mass spectrometry-based proteomics is now a routine tool, analysis of the microbiome presents specific technical challenges, including the complexity and dynamic range of member taxa, the need for well-annotated metagenomic databases, and high inter-protein sequence redundancy and similarity. In this study, an approach was developed for assessment of biological phenotype and metabolic status, as a functional complement to DNA sequence analysis. Fecal samples were prepared and analysed by tandem mass spectrometry and a homology-based meta-clustering strategy was used to combine peptides from multiple species into representative proteins. In total, 15,250 unique peptides were sequenced and assigned to 2154 metaclusters, which were then assigned to pathways and functional groups. Differences were noted in several pathways, consistent with the dominant genera observed in different subjects. Although this study was not powered to draw conclusions from the comparisons, the results obtained demonstrate the applicability of this approach and provide the methods needed for performing semi-quantitative comparisons of human fecal microbiome composition, physiology and metabolism, as well as a more detailed assessment of microbial composition in comparison to 16S rRNA gene sequencing.
PXD012644	30902390	Proteomic investigations of human HERC2 mutants: Insights into the pathobiology of a neurodevelopmental disorder. 	Proteomic investigations of human HERC2 mutants: insights into the pathobiology of a neurodevelopmental disorder	HERC2, autism, lymphoblast, neurodvelopment	HERC2 is a giant protein with E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and other known and suspected functions. Mutations of HERC2 are implicated in the pathogenesis of various cancers and result in severe neurological conditions in Herc2-mutant mice. Recently, a pleotropic autosomal recessive HERC2-associated syndrome of intellectual disability, autism and variable neurological deficits was described; its pathogenetic basis is largely unknown. Using peripheral blood-derived lymphoblasts from 3 persons with homozygous HERC2 variants and 14 age- and gender-matched controls, we performed label-free unbiased HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry-based proteomic analyses to provide insights into HERC2-mediated pathobiology. We found that out of 3427 detected proteins, there were 812 differentially expressed proteins between HERC2-cases vs. controls. 184 canonical pathways were enriched after FDR adjustment, including mitochondrial function, energy metabolism, EIF2 signaling, immune functions, ubiquitination and DNA repair. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis((R)) identified 209 upstream regulators that could drive the differential expression, prominent amongst which were neurodegeneration-associated proteins. Differentially expressed protein interaction networks highlighted themes of immune function/dysfunction, regulation of cell cycle/cell death, and energy metabolism. Overall, the analysis of the HERC2-associated proteome revealed striking differential protein expression between cases and controls. The large number of differentially expressed proteins likely reflects HERC2's multiple domains and numerous interacting proteins. Our canonical pathway and protein interaction network findings suggest derangements of multiple pathways in HERC2-associated disease.
PXD010769	30902834	Salmonella Effectors SseK1 and SseK3 Target Death Domain Proteins in the TNF and TRAIL Signaling Pathways. 	identification of the endogenous host targets of the Salmonella effectors SSeK1 and 3	ProteomeXchange project tag: Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Salmonella, glycopeptide enrichment, glycosylation, infection	Strains of Salmonella utilize two distinct type three secretion systems to deliver effector proteins directly into host cells. The Salmonella effectors SseK1 and SseK3 are arginine glycosyltransferases that modify mammalian death domain containing proteins with N-acetyl glucosamine (GlcNAc) when overexpressed ectopically or as recombinant protein fusions. Here, we combined Arg-GlcNAc glycopeptide immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry to identify host proteins GlcNAcylated by endogenous levels of SseK1 and SseK3 during Salmonella infection. We observed that SseK1 modified the mammalian signaling protein TRADD, but not FADD as previously reported. Overexpression of SseK1 greatly broadened substrate specificity, whereas ectopic co-expression of SseK1 and TRADD increased the range of modified arginine residues within the death domain of TRADD. In contrast, endogenous levels of SseK3 resulted in modification of the death domains of receptors of the mammalian TNF superfamily, TNFR1 and TRAILR, at residues Arg(376) and Arg(293) respectively. Structural studies on SseK3 showed that the enzyme displays a classic GT-A glycosyltransferase fold and binds UDP-GlcNAc in a narrow and deep cleft with the GlcNAc facing the surface. Together our data suggest that salmonellae carrying sseK1 and sseK3 employ the glycosyltransferase effectors to antagonise different components of death receptor signaling.
PXD012487	30902970	Complex formation of APP with GABAB receptors links axonal trafficking to amyloidogenic processing. 	Complex formation of APP with GABAB receptors links axonal trafficking to amyloidogenic processing	Cellular neuroscience, GABAB receptors	GABAB receptors (GBRs) are key regulators of synaptic release but little is known about trafficking mechanisms that control their presynaptic abundance. We now show that sequence-related epitopes in APP, AJAP-1 and PIANP bind with nanomolar affinities to the N-terminal sushi-domain of presynaptic GBRs. Of the three interacting proteins, selectively the genetic loss of APP impaired GBR-mediated presynaptic inhibition and axonal GBR expression. Proteomic and functional analyses revealed that APP associates with JIP and calsyntenin proteins that link the APP/GBR complex in cargo vesicles to the axonal trafficking motor. Complex formation with GBRs stabilizes APP at the cell surface and reduces proteolysis of APP to Abeta, a component of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease patients. Thus, APP/GBR complex formation links presynaptic GBR trafficking to Abeta formation. Our findings support that dysfunctional axonal trafficking and reduced GBR expression in Alzheimer's disease increases Abeta formation.
PXD012894	30902995	Selective binding of a toxin and phosphatidylinositides to a mammalian potassium channel. 	Selective Binding of a Toxin and Phosphatidylinositides to a Mammalian Potassium Channel	GIRK2, Lipid Binding, Lipid Selectivity, PIP2, Phosphorylation, Potassium Channel	G-protein-gated inward rectifying potassium channels (GIRKs) require Gbetagamma subunits and phosphorylated phosphatidylinositides (PIPs) for gating. Although studies have provided insight into these interactions, the mechanism of how these events are modulated by Gbetagamma and the binding affinity between PIPs and GIRKs remains poorly understood. Here, native ion mobility mass spectrometry is employed to directly monitor small molecule binding events to mouse GIRK2. GIRK2 binds the toxin tertiapin Q and PIPs selectively and with significantly higher affinity than other phospholipids. A mutation in GIRK2 that causes a rotation in the cytoplasmic domain, similarly to Gbetagamma-binding to the wild-type channel, revealed differences in the selectivity towards PIPs. More specifically, PIP isoforms known to weakly activate GIRKs have decreased binding affinity. Taken together, our results reveal selective small molecule binding and uncover a mechanism by which rotation of the cytoplasmic domain can modulate GIRK*PIP interactions.
PXD027324	30905740	Exercise-Induced Activated Platelets Increase Adult Hippocampal Precursor Proliferation and Promote Neuronal Differentiation. 	Mouse Plasma TMT-MS3 Discovery Proteomics Profiling	Plasma, TMT	Physical activity is a strong positive physiological modulator of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Although the underlying regulatory mechanisms are still unknown, systemic processes must be involved. Here we show that platelets are activated after acute periods of running, and that activated platelets promote neurogenesis, an effect that is likely mediated by platelet factor 4. Ex vivo, the beneficial effects of activated platelets and platelet factor 4 on neural precursor cells were dentate gyrus specific and not observed in the subventricular zone. Moreover, the depletion of circulating platelets in mice abolished the running-induced increase in precursor cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus following exercise. These findings demonstrate that platelets and their released factors can modulate adult neural precursor cells under physiological conditions and provide an intriguing link between running-induced platelet activation and the modulation of neurogenesis after exercise.
PXD012910	30907085	A Large-Scale, Multi-Center Urine Biomarkers Identification of Coronary Heart Disease in TCM Syndrome Differentiation. 	Mass spectrometry data of human urine	ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), UPLC-Q/TOF-MS, Urine	Coronary heart disease (CHD) threatens human health. The discovery and assessment of potential biometabolic markers for different syndrome types of CHD may contribute to decipher pathophysiological mechanisms and identify new targets for diagnosis and treatment. On the basis of UPLC-Q-TOF/MS metabolomics technology, urine samples of 1072 participants from nine centers, including normal control, phlegm and blood stasis (PBS) syndrome and Qi and Yin deficiency (QYD) syndrome, and other syndromes of CHD, were conducted to find biomarkers. Among them, the discovery set ( n = 125) and the test set ( n = 337) were used to identify and validate biomarkers, and the validation set ( n = 610) was used for the application and evaluation of the support vector machine (SVM) prediction model. We discovered 15 CHD-PBS syndrome biomarkers and 12 CHD-QYD syndrome biomarkers, and the receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) area-under-the-curve (AUC) values of them were 0.963 and 0.990. The established SVM model has a good diagnostic ability and can well distinguish the two syndromes of CHD with a high predicted accuracy >98.0%. The discovery of biomarkers and metabolic pathways in different syndrome types of CHD provides a basis for the diagnosis and evaluation of CHD, thereby improving the accurate diagnosis and precise treatment level of Chinese medicine.
PXD012515	30907729	Targeted degradation of aberrant tau in frontotemporal dementia patient-derived neuronal cell models. 	Targeted Degradation of Aberrant Tau in Frontotemporal Dementia Patient-Derived Neuronal Cell Models	CRBN, Frontotemporal dementia, PROTAC, Tau, crl4, ubiquitin	Tauopathies are neurodegenerative diseases characterized by aberrant forms of tau protein accumulation leading to neuronal death in focal brain areas. Positron emission tomography (PET) tracers that bind to pathological tau are used in diagnosis, but there are no current therapies to eliminate these tau species. We employed targeted protein degradation technology to convert a tau PET-probe into a functional degrader of pathogenic tau. The hetero-bifunctional molecule QC-01-175 was designed to engage both tau and Cereblon (CRBN), a substrate-receptor for the E3-ubiquitin ligase CRL4(CRBN), to trigger tau ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. QC-01-175 effected clearance of tau in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) patient-derived neuronal cell models, with minimal effect on tau from neurons of healthy controls, indicating specificity for disease-relevant forms. QC-01-175 also rescued stress vulnerability in FTD neurons, phenocopying CRISPR-mediated MAPT-knockout. This work demonstrates that aberrant tau in FTD patient-derived neurons is amenable to targeted degradation, representing an important advance for therapeutics.
PXD012221	30908922	Alterations of Human Plasma Proteome Profile on Adaptation to High-Altitude Hypobaric Hypoxia. 	Alterations of human plasma proteome profile on adaptation to high-altitude hypobaric hypoxia	antioxidant, complement and coagulation cascades, glycolysis., high altitude, hypobaric hypoxia	For individuals migrating to or residing permanently in high-altitude regions, environmental hypobaric hypoxia is a primary challenge that induces several physiological or pathological responses. It is well documented that human beings adapt to hypobaric hypoxia via some protective mechanisms, such as erythropoiesis and overproduction of hemoglobin; however, little is known on the alterations of plasma proteome profiles in accommodation to high-altitude hypobaric hypoxia. In the present study, we investigated differential plasma proteomes of high altitude natives and lowland normal controls by a TMT-based proteomic approach. A total of 818 proteins were identified, of which 137 were differentially altered. Bioinformatics (including GO, KEGG, protein-protein interactions, etc.) analysis showed that the differentially altered proteins were basically involved in complement and coagulation cascades, antioxidative stress, and glycolysis. Validation results demonstrated that CCL18, C9, PF4, MPO, and S100A9 were notably up-regulated, and HRG and F11 were down-regulated in high altitude natives, which were consistent with TMT-based proteomic results. Our findings highlight the contributions of complement and coagulation cascades, antioxidative stress, and glycolysis in acclimatization to hypobaric hypoxia and provide a foundation for developing potential diagnostic or/and therapeutic biomarkers for high altitude hypobaric hypoxia-induced diseases.
PXD012528	30909561	Targeted Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Clostridium perfringens Toxins. 	Targeted Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Clostridium perfringens Toxins	Clostridium perfringens, PRM, epsilon toxin, protein toxin	Targeted proteomics recently proved to be a technique for the detection and absolute quantification of proteins not easily accessible to classical bottom-up approaches. Due to this, it has been considered as a high fidelity tool to detect potential warfare agents in wide spread kinds of biological and environmental matrices. Clostridium perfringens toxins are considered to be potential biological weapons, especially the epsilon toxin which belongs to a group of the most powerful bacterial toxins. Here, the development of a target mass spectrometry method for the detection of C. perfringens protein toxins (alpha, beta, beta2, epsilon, iota) is described. A high-resolution mass spectrometer with a quadrupole-Orbitrap system operating in target acquisition mode (parallel reaction monitoring) was utilized. Because of the lack of commercial protein toxin standards recombinant toxins were prepared within Escherichia coli. The analysis was performed using proteotypic peptides as the target compounds together with their isotopically labeled synthetic analogues as internal standards. Calibration curves were calculated for each peptide in concentrations ranging from 0.635 to 1101 fmol/muL. Limits of detection and quantification were determined for each peptide in blank matrices.
PXD011045	30910009	A conserved major facilitator superfamily member orchestrates a subset of O-glycosylation to aid macrophage tissue invasion. 	A conserved atypical MFS family member orchestrates a subset of O-glycosylation to facilitate macrophage dissemination and tissue invasion	ETD, O-glycosylation, dissemination, drosophila melanogaster, embryo, glycoproteomics, invasion, major facilitator superfamily, metastasis, migration	Aberrant display of the truncated core1 O-glycan T-antigen is a common feature of human cancer cells that correlates with metastasis. Here we show that T-antigen in Drosophila melanogaster macrophages is involved in their developmentally programmed tissue invasion. Higher macrophage T-antigen levels require an atypical major facilitator superfamily (MFS) member that we named Minerva which enables macrophage dissemination and invasion. We characterize for the first time the T and Tn glycoform O-glycoproteome of the Drosophila melanogaster embryo, and determine that Minerva increases the presence of T-antigen on proteins in pathways previously linked to cancer, most strongly on the sulfhydryl oxidase Qsox1 which we show is required for macrophage tissue entry. Minerva's vertebrate ortholog, MFSD1, rescues the minerva mutant's migration and T-antigen glycosylation defects. We thus identify a key conserved regulator that orchestrates O-glycosylation on a protein subset to activate a program governing migration steps important for both development and cancer metastasis.
PXD013446	30910828	Novel functions of the ubiquitin-independent proteasome system in regulating Xenopus germline development. 	Novel functions of the ubiquitin-independent proteasome system in regulating Xenopus germline development	Dnd1, Germline development, Oocyte-to-embryo transition, Ubiquitin-independent proteasome, Xenopus	In most species, early germline development occurs in the absence of transcription with germline determinants subject to complex translational and post-translational regulations. Here, we report for the first time that early germline development is influenced by dynamic regulation of the proteasome system, previously thought to be ubiquitously expressed and to serve 'housekeeping' roles in controlling protein homeostasis. We show that proteasomes are present in a gradient with the highest levels in the animal hemisphere and extending into the vegetal hemisphere of Xenopus oocytes. This distribution changes dramatically during the oocyte-to-embryo transition, with proteasomes becoming enriched in and restricted to the animal hemisphere and therefore separated from vegetally localized germline determinants. We identify Dead-end1 (Dnd1), a master regulator of vertebrate germline development, as a novel substrate of the ubiquitin-independent proteasomes. In the oocyte, ubiquitin-independent proteasomal degradation acts together with translational repression to prevent premature accumulation of Dnd1 protein. In the embryo, artificially increasing ubiquitin-independent proteasomal degradation in the vegetal pole interferes with germline development. Our work thus reveals novel inhibitory functions and spatial regulation of the ubiquitin-independent proteasome during vertebrate germline development.
PXD013060	30910981	Cellular senescence in progenitor cells contributes to diminished remyelination potential in progressive multiple sclerosis. 	Cellular Senescence in Progenitor Cells Contributes to Diminished Remyelination Potential in Progressive Multiple Sclerosis	aging, neural progenitor cells, oligodendrocyte, rapamycin	Cellular senescence is a form of adaptive cellular physiology associated with aging. Cellular senescence causes a proinflammatory cellular phenotype that impairs tissue regeneration, has been linked to stress, and is implicated in several human neurodegenerative diseases. We had previously determined that neural progenitor cells (NPCs) derived from induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines from patients with primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) failed to promote oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) maturation, whereas NPCs from age-matched control cell lines did so efficiently. Herein, we report that expression of hallmarks of cellular senescence were identified in SOX2(+) progenitor cells within white matter lesions of human progressive MS (PMS) autopsy brain tissues and iPS-derived NPCs from patients with PPMS. Expression of cellular senescence genes in PPMS NPCs was found to be reversible by treatment with rapamycin, which then enhanced PPMS NPC support for oligodendrocyte (OL) differentiation. A proteomic analysis of the PPMS NPC secretome identified high-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1), which was found to be a senescence-associated inhibitor of OL differentiation. Transcriptome analysis of OPCs revealed that senescent NPCs induced expression of epigenetic regulators mediated by extracellular HMGB1. Lastly, we determined that progenitor cells are a source of elevated HMGB1 in human white matter lesions. Based on these data, we conclude that cellular senescence contributes to altered progenitor cell functions in demyelinated lesions in MS. Moreover, these data implicate cellular aging and senescence as a process that contributes to remyelination failure in PMS, which may impact how this disease is modeled and inform development of future myelin regeneration strategies.
PXD009756	30911017	The cochaperone CHIP marks Hsp70- and Hsp90-bound substrates for degradation through a very flexible mechanism. 	The cochaperone CHIP marks Hsp70- and Hsp90-bound substrates for degradation through a very flexible mechanism	DSSO, crosslinking, shotgun	Some molecular chaperones are involved not only in assisting the folding of proteins but also, given appropriate conditions, in their degradation. This is the case for Hsp70 and Hsp90 which, in concert with the cochaperone CHIP, direct their bound substrate to degradation through ubiquitination. We generated complexes between the chaperones (Hsp70 or Hsp90), the cochaperone CHIP and, as substrate, a p53 variant containing the GST protein (p53-TMGST). Both ternary complexes (Hsp70:p53-TMGST:CHIP and Hsp90:p53-TMGST:CHIP) ubiquitinated the substrate at a higher efficiency than in the absence of the chaperones. The 3D structures of the two complexes, obtained using a combination of cryoelectron microscopy and crosslinking mass spectrometry, showed the substrate located between the chaperone and the cochaperone, suggesting a ubiquitination mechanism in which the chaperone-bound substrate is presented to CHIP. These complexes are inherently flexible, which is important for the ubiquitination process.
PXD011651	30912318	Increased growth rate and amikacin resistance of Salmonella enteritidis after one-month spaceflight on China's Shenzhou-11 spacecraft. 	Space of Salmonella enterica Proteomic		China launched the Tiangong-2 space laboratory in 2016 and will eventually build a basic space station by the early 2020s. These spaceflight missions require astronauts to stay on the space station for more than 6 months, and they inevitably carry microbes into the space environment. It is known that the space environment affects microbial behavior, including growth rate, biofilm formation, virulence, drug resistance, and metabolism. However, the mechanisms of these alternations have not been fully elucidated. Therefore, it is beneficial to monitor microorganisms for preventing infections among astronauts in a space environment. Salmonella enteritidis is a Gram-negative bacterial pathogen that commonly causes acute gastroenteritis in humans. In this study, to better understand the effects of the space environment on S. enteritidis, a S. enteritidis strain was taken into space by the Shenzhou-11 spacecraft from 17 October 2016 to 18 November 2016, and a ground simulation with similar temperature conditions was simultaneously performed as a control. It was found that the flight strain displayed an increased growth rate, enhanced amikacin resistance, and some metabolism alterations compared with the ground strain. Enrichment analysis of proteome revealed that the increased growth rate might be associated with differentially expressed proteins involved in transmembrane transport and energy production and conversion assembly. A combined transcriptome and proteome analysis showed that the amikacin resistance was due to the downregulation of the oppA gene and oligopeptide transporter protein OppA. In conclusion, this study is the first systematic analysis of the phenotypic, genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic variations in S. enteritidis during spaceflight and will provide beneficial insights for future studies on space microbiology.
PXD009040	30914427	SUMOylation promotes protective responses to DNA-protein crosslinks. 	A SUMO-mediated protective response to DNA-protein crosslinks	DNA damage, DNA repair, DNA-protein crosslink, DNMT1, Q Exactive HF, Q Exactive HF-X, SUMO, ubquitin	DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) are highly cytotoxic lesions that obstruct essential DNA transactions and whose resolution is critical for cell and organismal fitness. However, the mechanisms by which cells respond to and overcome DPCs remain incompletely understood. Recent studies unveiled a dedicated DPC repair pathway in higher eukaryotes involving the SprT-type metalloprotease SPRTN/DVC1, which proteolytically processes DPCs during DNA replication in a ubiquitin-regulated manner. Here, we show that chemically induced and defined enzymatic DPCs trigger potent chromatin SUMOylation responses targeting the crosslinked proteins and associated factors. Consequently, inhibiting SUMOylation compromises DPC clearance and cellular fitness. We demonstrate that ACRC/GCNA family SprT proteases interact with SUMO and establish important physiological roles of Caenorhabditis elegans GCNA-1 and SUMOylation in promoting germ cell and embryonic survival upon DPC formation. Our findings provide first global insights into signaling responses to DPCs and reveal an evolutionarily conserved function of SUMOylation in facilitating responses to these lesions in metazoans that may complement replication-coupled DPC resolution processes.
PXD012632	30914450	Structural weakening of the colonic mucus barrier is an early event in ulcerative colitis pathogenesis. 	STRUCTURAL WEAKENING OF THE COLONIC MUCUS BARRIER IS AN EARLY EVENT IN ULCERATIVE COLITIS PATHOGENESIS	COLON, ILEUM, LC-MS/MS AND IBD, MUCUS	OBJECTIVE: The colonic inner mucus layer protects us from pathogens and commensal-induced inflammation, and has been shown to be defective in active UC. The aim of this study was to determine the underlying compositional alterations, their molecular background and potential contribution to UC pathogenesis. DESIGN: In this single-centre case-control study, sigmoid colon biopsies were obtained from patients with UC with ongoing inflammation (n=36) or in remission (n=28), and from 47 patients without colonic disease. Mucus samples were collected from biopsies ex vivo, and their protein composition analysed by nanoliquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Mucus penetrability and goblet cell responses to microbial stimulus were assessed in a subset of patients. RESULTS: The core mucus proteome was found to consist of a small set of 29 secreted/transmembrane proteins. In active UC, major structural mucus components including the mucin MUC2 (p<0.0001) were reduced, also in non-inflamed segments. Active UC was associated with decreased numbers of sentinel goblet cells and attenuation of the goblet cell secretory response to microbial challenge. Abnormal penetrability of the inner mucus layer was observed in a subset of patients with UC (12/40; 30%). Proteomic alterations in penetrable mucus samples included a reduction of the SLC26A3 apical membrane anion exchanger, which supplies bicarbonate required for colonic mucin barrier formation. CONCLUSION: Core mucus structural components were reduced in active UC. These alterations were associated with attenuation of the goblet cell secretory response to microbial challenge, but occurred independent of local inflammation. Thus, mucus abnormalities are likely to contribute to UC pathogenesis.
PXD012908	30914485	Agonist-selective NOP receptor phosphorylation correlates in vitro and in vivo and reveals differential post-activation signaling by chemically diverse agonists. 	Agonist-selective NOP receptor phosphorylation correlates in vitro and in vivo and reveals differential post-activation signaling by chemically diverse agonists	Brain, NanoLC-MS/MS CID/ETD, Opioid receptor family, Pharmacology, Phosphorylation, Post-Translational Modification	Agonists of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ opioid peptide (NOP) receptor, a member of the opioid receptor family, are under active investigation as novel analgesics, but their modes of signaling are less well characterized than those of other members of the opioid receptor family. Therefore, we investigated whether different NOP receptor ligands showed differential signaling or functional selectivity at the NOP receptor. Using newly developed phosphosite-specific antibodies to the NOP receptor, we found that agonist-induced NOP receptor phosphorylation occurred primarily at four carboxyl-terminal serine (Ser) and threonine (Thr) residues, namely, Ser(346), Ser(351), Thr(362), and Ser(363), and proceeded with a temporal hierarchy, with Ser(346) as the first site of phosphorylation. G protein-coupled receptor kinases 2 and 3 (GRK2/3) cooperated during agonist-induced phosphorylation, which, in turn, facilitated NOP receptor desensitization and internalization. A comparison of structurally distinct NOP receptor agonists revealed dissociation in functional efficacies between G protein-dependent signaling and receptor phosphorylation. Furthermore, in NOP-eGFP and NOP-eYFP mice, NOP receptor agonists induced multisite phosphorylation and internalization in a dose-dependent and agonist-selective manner that could be blocked by specific antagonists. Our study provides new tools to study ligand-activated NOP receptor signaling in vitro and in vivo. Differential agonist-selective NOP receptor phosphorylation by chemically diverse NOP receptor agonists suggests that differential signaling by NOP receptor agonists may play a role in NOP receptor ligand pharmacology.
PXD007612	30914498	Glycome and Proteome Components of Golgi Membranes Are Common between Two Angiosperms with Distinct Cell-Wall Structures. 	Maize and Arabidopsis Golgi proteome	FFE, Free-Flow Electrophoresis, Golgi, Triple TOF, flotation centrifugation, maize	The plant endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi apparatus is the site of synthesis, assembly, and trafficking of all noncellulosic polysaccharides, proteoglycans, and proteins destined for the cell wall. As grass species make cell walls distinct from those of dicots and noncommelinid monocots, it has been assumed that the differences in cell-wall composition stem from differences in biosynthetic capacities of their respective Golgi. However, immunosorbence-based screens and carbohydrate linkage analysis of polysaccharides in Golgi membranes, enriched by flotation centrifugation from etiolated coleoptiles of maize (Zea mays) and leaves of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), showed that arabinogalactan-proteins and arabinans represent substantial portions of the Golgi-resident polysaccharides not typically found in high abundance in cell walls of either species. Further, hemicelluloses accumulated in Golgi at levels that contrasted with those found in their respective cell walls, with xyloglucans enriched in maize Golgi, and xylans enriched in Arabidopsis. Consistent with this finding, maize Golgi membranes isolated by flotation centrifugation and enriched further by free-flow electrophoresis, yielded >200 proteins known to function in the biosynthesis and metabolism of cell-wall polysaccharides common to all angiosperms, and not just those specific to cell-wall type. We propose that the distinctive compositions of grass primary cell walls compared with other angiosperms result from differential gating or metabolism of secreted polysaccharides post-Golgi by an as-yet unknown mechanism, and not necessarily by differential expression of genes encoding specific synthase complexes.
PXD009630	30914758	Improved survival prognostication of node-positive malignant melanoma patients utilizing shotgun proteomics guided by histopathological characterization and genomic data. 	Malignant Melanoma -  Improved survival prognostication of node-positive malignant melanoma patients utilizing shotgun proteomics guided by histopathological characterization and genomic data	Malignant Melanoma, clinical data, histopathology, tumor	Metastatic melanoma is one of the most common deadly cancers, and robust biomarkers are still needed, e.g. to predict survival and treatment efficiency. Here, protein expression analysis of one hundred eleven melanoma lymph node metastases using high resolution mass spectrometry is coupled with in-depth histopathology analysis, clinical data and genomics profiles. This broad view of protein expression allowed to identify novel candidate protein markers that improved prediction of survival in melanoma patients. Some of the prognostic proteins have not been reported in the context of melanoma before, and few of them exhibit unexpected relationship to survival, which likely reflects the limitations of current knowledge on melanoma and shows the potential of proteomics in clinical cancer research.
PXD011796	30915077	Caught in a Trap? Proteomic Analysis of Neutrophil Extracellular Traps in Rheumatoid Arthritis and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. 	Proteomic analysis of neutrophil extracellular traps (healthy control, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus)_C4PR_LIV	A23187, Neutrophil extracellular traps, PMA, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus	Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs) are implicated in the development of auto-immunity in diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) through the externalization of intracellular neoepitopes e.g., dsDNA and nuclear proteins in SLE and citrullinated peptides in RA. The aim of this work was to use quantitative proteomics to identify and measure NET proteins produced by neutrophils from healthy controls, and from patients with RA and SLE to determine if NETs can be differentially-generated to expose different sets of neoepitopes. Ultra-pure neutrophils (>99%) from healthy individuals (n = 3) and patients with RA or SLE (n = 6 each) were incubated +/- PMA (50 nM, PKC super-activator) or A23187 (3.8 muM, calcium ionophore) for 4 h. NETs were liberated by nuclease digestion and concentrated onto Strataclean beads prior to on-bead digestion with trypsin. Data-dependent LC-MS/MS analyses were conducted on a QExactive HF quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometer, and label-free protein quantification was carried out using Progenesis QI. PMA-induced NETs were decorated with annexins, azurocidin and histone H3, whereas A23187-induced NETs were decorated with granule proteins including CAMP/LL37, CRISP3, lipocalin and MMP8, histones H1.0, H1.4, and H1.5, interleukin-8, protein-arginine deiminase-4 (PADI4), and alpha-enolase. Four proteins were significantly different between PMA-NETs from RA and SLE neutrophils (p < 0.05): RNASE2 was higher in RA, whereas MPO, leukocyte elastase inhibitor and thymidine phosphorylase were higher in SLE. For A23187-NETs, six NET proteins were higher in RA (p < 0.05), including CAMP/LL37, CRISP3, interleukin-8, MMP8; Thirteen proteins were higher in SLE, including histones H1.0, H2B, and H4. This work provides the first, direct comparison of NOX2-dependent (PMA) and NOX2-independent (A23187) NETs using quantitative proteomics, and the first direct comparison of RA and SLE NETs using quantitative proteomics. We show that it is the nature of the stimulant rather than neutrophil physiology that determines NET protein profiles in disease, since stimulation of NETosis in either a NOX2-dependent or a NOX2-independent manner generates broadly similar NET proteins irrespective of the disease background. We also use our proteomics pipeline to identify an extensive range of post-translationally modified proteins in RA and SLE, including histones and granule proteins, many of which are known targets of auto-antibodies in each disease.
PXD012713	30916345	Differential role for phosphorylation in alternative polyadenylation function versus nuclear import of SR-like protein CPSF6. 	Phosphorylation of CPSF6 RS-like domain	APA, CFIm68, CPSF6, RS domain, RS-like domain	Cleavage factor I mammalian (CFIm) complex, composed of cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor 5 (CPSF5) and serine/arginine-like protein CPSF6, regulates alternative polyadenylation (APA). Loss of CFIm function results in proximal polyadenylation site usage, shortening mRNA 3' untranslated regions (UTRs). Although CPSF6 plays additional roles in human disease, its nuclear translocation mechanism remains unresolved. Two beta-karyopherins, transportin (TNPO) 1 and TNPO3, can bind CPSF6 in vitro, and we demonstrate here that while the TNPO1 binding site is dispensable for CPSF6 nuclear import, the arginine/serine (RS)-like domain (RSLD) that mediates TNPO3 binding is critical. The crystal structure of the RSLD-TNPO3 complex revealed potential CPSF6 interaction residues, which were confirmed to mediate TNPO3 binding and CPSF6 nuclear import. Both binding and nuclear import were independent of RSLD phosphorylation, though a hyperphosphorylated mimetic mutant failed to bind TNPO3 and mislocalized to the cell cytoplasm. Although hypophosphorylated CPSF6 largely supported normal polyadenylation site usage, a significant number of mRNAs harbored unnaturally extended 3' UTRs, similar to what is observed when other APA regulators, such as CFIIm component proteins, are depleted. Our results clarify the mechanism of CPSF6 nuclear import and highlight differential roles for RSLD phosphorylation in nuclear translocation versus regulation of APA.
PXD012058	30916644	Antigen receptor control of methionine metabolism in T cells. 	Defining the T cell proteome and the role of mTORC1 during differentiation using quantitative proteomics	fusion, mtor, mtorc1, rapamycin, t cell, tmt	Immune activated T lymphocytes modulate the activity of key metabolic pathways to support the transcriptional reprograming and reshaping of cell proteomes that permits effector T cell differentiation. The present study uses high resolution mass spectrometry and metabolic labelling to explore how murine T cells control the methionine cycle to produce methyl donors for protein and nucleotide methylations. We show that antigen receptor engagement controls flux through the methionine cycle and RNA and histone methylations. We establish that the main rate limiting step for protein synthesis and the methionine cycle is control of methionine transporter expression. Only T cells that respond to antigen to upregulate and sustain methionine transport are supplied with methyl donors that permit the dynamic nucleotide methylations and epigenetic reprogramming that drives T cell differentiation. These data highlight how the regulation of methionine transport licenses use of methionine for multiple fundamental processes that drive T lymphocyte proliferation and differentiation.
PXD011164	30917315	Nemo-like Kinase Drives Foxp3 Stability and Is Critical for Maintenance of Immune Tolerance by Regulatory T Cells. 	Nemo-like kinase drives Foxp3 stability and is critical for maintenance of immune tolerance by regulatory T cells	Foxp3, NLK, TCR, immune tolerance, phosphorylation, regulatory T cell, ubiquitination	The Foxp3 transcription factor is a crucial determinant of both regulatory T (TREG) cell development and their functional maintenance. Appropriate modulation of tolerogenic immune responses therefore requires the tight regulation of Foxp3 transcriptional output, and this involves both transcriptional and post-translational regulation. Here, we show that during T cell activation, phosphorylation of Foxp3 in TREG cells can be regulated by a TGF-beta activated kinase 1 (TAK1)-Nemo-like kinase (NLK) signaling pathway. NLK interacts and phosphorylates Foxp3 in TREG cells, resulting in the stabilization of protein levels by preventing association with the STUB1 E3-ubiquitin protein ligase. Conditional TREG cell NLK-knockout (NLK(DeltaTREG)) results in decreased TREG cell-mediated immunosuppression in vivo, and NLK-deficient TREG cell animals develop more severe experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our data suggest a molecular mechanism, in which stimulation of TCR-mediated signaling can induce a TAK1-NLK pathway to sustain Foxp3 transcriptional activity through the stabilization of protein levels, thereby maintaining TREG cell suppressive function.
PXD006457	30917324	Control of Drosophila Growth and Survival by the Lipid Droplet-Associated Protein CG9186/Sturkopf. 	Lipid droplet-associated Drosophila protein CG9186 interacting proteins	CGC9186, affinity purification, drosophila, lipid droplet, protein interaction, shotgun mass spectrometry	Lipid droplets (LDs) are the universal cellular storage organelles for esterified neutral lipids. The increasing number of characterized LD-associated proteins attained LDs with hitherto unexpected functions on top of their classical role as energy depot. Here, we characterize the LD-associated protein CG9186 of Drosophila by a CRISPR/Cas9-derived mutant fly line. While the mutant flies only showed a mild triacylglycerol storage phenotype, they were highly protected from desiccation stress, likely linked to a reduced locomotor activity and altered cuticular hydrocarbons. Both parameters depend on juvenile hormone (JH) signaling. Together with an observed interaction between CG9186 and JH-degrading enzymes, our results suggest that CG9186 participates in endocrine physiology regulation. In support of this hypothesis, CG9186 mutant flies show an altered expression of JH target genes and fail to adjust their developmental rate to dietary yeast-to-sugar ratio changes. Our results thus link LDs to organismic physiology regulation.
PXD012186	30918060	Combined Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis of Immortalized Human Keratinocytes Expressing Human Papillomavirus 16 (HPV16) Oncogenes Reveals Novel Key Factors and Networks in HPV-Induced Carcinogenesis. 	Impact of HPV16 E6 and E7 oncogenes together with Chlamydia trachomatis infection on proteome changes in immortalized oral keratinocytes	Chlamydia trachomatis, Human papillomavirus, cervical cancer	Although the role of high-risk human papillomaviruses (hrHPVs) as etiological agents in cancer development has been intensively studied during the last decades, there is still the necessity of understanding the impact of the HPV E6 and E7 oncogenes on host cells, ultimately leading to malignant transformation. Here, we used newly established immortalized human keratinocytes with a well-defined HPV16 E6E7 expression cassette to get a more complete and less biased overview of global changes induced by HPV16 by employing transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) and stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC). This is the first study combining transcriptome and proteome data to characterize the impact of HPV oncogenes in human keratinocytes in comparison with their virus-negative counterparts. To enhance the informative value and accuracy of the RNA-Seq data, four different bioinformatic workflows were used. We identified potential novel upstream regulators (e.g., CNOT7, SPDEF, MITF, and PAX5) controlling distinct clusters of genes within the HPV-host cell network as well as distinct factors (e.g., CPPED1, LCP1, and TAGLN) with essential functions in cancer. Validated results in this study were compared to data sets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), demonstrating that several identified factors were also differentially expressed in cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma (CESC) and HPV-positive head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCs). This highly integrative approach allows the identification of novel HPV-induced cellular changes that are also reflected in cancer patients, providing a promising omics data set for future studies in both basic and translational research.IMPORTANCE Human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated cancers still remain a big health problem, especially in developing countries, despite the availability of prophylactic vaccines. Although HPV oncogenes have been intensively investigated for decades, a study applying recent advances in RNA-Seq and quantitative proteomic approaches to a precancerous model system with well-defined HPV oncogene expression alongside HPV-negative parental cells has been missing until now. Here, combined omics analyses reveal global changes caused by the viral oncogenes in a less biased way and allow the identification of novel factors and key cellular networks potentially promoting malignant transformation. In addition, this system also provides a basis for mechanistic research on novel key factors regulated by HPV oncogenes, especially those that are confirmed in vivo in cervical cancer as well as in head and neck cancer patient samples from TCGA data sets.
PXD012689	30918259	Sulfisoxazole inhibits the secretion of small extracellular vesicles by targeting the endothelin receptor A. 	Sulfisoxazole inhibits exosome secretion for potential breast cancer treatment	Sulfisoxazole, breast cancer, exosome	Inhibitors of the secretion of cancer exosomes, which promote cancer progression and metastasis, may not only accelerate exosome biology research but also offer therapeutic benefits for cancer patients. Here we identify sulfisoxazole (SFX) as an inhibitor of small extracellular vesicles (sEV) secretion from breast cancer cells through interference with endothelin receptor A (ETA). SFX, an FDA-approved oral antibiotic, showed significant anti-tumor and anti-metastatic effects in mouse models of breast cancer xenografts, the reduced expression of proteins involved in biogenesis and secretion of sEV, and triggered co-localization of multivesicular endosomes with lysosomes for degradation. We demonstrate the important role of ETA, as target of SFX, by gain- and loss-of-function studies of the ETA protein, through a direct binding assay, and pharmacological and genetic approaches. These findings may provide a foundation for sEV-targeted cancer therapies and the mechanistic studies on sEV biology.
PXD012833	30918399	CAR T cell trogocytosis and cooperative killing regulate tumour antigen escape. 	Transfer of antigen target into CAR T cells via trogocytosis	CAR T cell, CD19, T cell, leukemia, trogocytosis	Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) are synthetic antigen receptors that reprogram T cell specificity, function and persistence(1). Patient-derived CAR T cells have demonstrated remarkable efficacy against a range of B-cell malignancies(1-3), and the results of early clinical trials suggest activity in multiple myeloma(4). Despite high complete response rates, relapses occur in a large fraction of patients; some of these are antigen-negative and others are antigen-low(1,2,4-9). Unlike the mechanisms that result in complete and permanent antigen loss(6,8,9), those that lead to escape of antigen-low tumours remain unclear. Here, using mouse models of leukaemia, we show that CARs provoke reversible antigen loss through trogocytosis, an active process in which the target antigen is transferred to T cells, thereby decreasing target density on tumour cells and abating T cell activity by promoting fratricide T cell killing and T cell exhaustion. These mechanisms affect both CD28- and 4-1BB-based CARs, albeit differentially, depending on antigen density. These dynamic features can be offset by cooperative killing and combinatorial targeting to augment tumour responses to immunotherapy.
PXD011597	30918404	Anaerobic oxidation of ethane by archaea from a marine hydrocarbon seep. 	Ethane-degrading enrichment culture	Ethane, anaerobic, archaea	Ethane is the second most abundant component of natural gas in addition to methane, and-similar to methane-is chemically unreactive. The biological consumption of ethane under anoxic conditions was suggested by geochemical profiles at marine hydrocarbon seeps(1-3), and through ethane-dependent sulfate reduction in slurries(4-7). Nevertheless, the microorganisms and reactions that catalyse this process have to date remained unknown(8). Here we describe ethane-oxidizing archaea that were obtained by specific enrichment over ten years, and analyse these archaea using phylogeny-based fluorescence analyses, proteogenomics and metabolite studies. The co-culture, which oxidized ethane completely while reducing sulfate to sulfide, was dominated by an archaeon that we name 'Candidatus Argoarchaeum ethanivorans'; other members were sulfate-reducing Deltaproteobacteria. The genome of Ca. Argoarchaeum contains all of the genes that are necessary for a functional methyl-coenzyme M reductase, and all subunits were detected in protein extracts. Accordingly, ethyl-coenzyme M (ethyl-CoM) was identified as an intermediate by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. This indicated that Ca. Argoarchaeum initiates ethane oxidation by ethyl-CoM formation, analogous to the recently described butane activation by 'Candidatus Syntrophoarchaeum'(9). Proteogenomics further suggests that oxidation of intermediary acetyl-CoA to CO2 occurs through the oxidative Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. The identification of an archaeon that uses ethane (C2H6) fills a gap in our knowledge of microorganisms that specifically oxidize members of the homologous alkane series (CnH2n+2) without oxygen. Detection of phylogenetic and functional gene markers related to those of Ca. Argoarchaeum at deep-sea gas seeps(10-12) suggests that archaea that are able to oxidize ethane through ethyl-CoM are widespread members of the local communities fostered by venting gaseous alkanes around these seeps.
PXD006429	30918483	The Interactome of Palmitoyl-Protein Thioesterase 1 (PPT1) Affects Neuronal Morphology and Function. 	PPT1 binding proteins -  The Interactome of Palmitoyl-Protein Thioesterase 1 (PPT1) Affects Neuronal Morphology and Function	GFP-PPT1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Bioinformatics Infrastructure for Life Sciences (BILS) network (Sweden), immunoprecipitation, mouse brain	Palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1) is a depalmitoylation enzyme that is mutated in cases of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL). The hallmarks of the disease include progressive neurodegeneration and blindness, as well as seizures. In the current study, we identified 62 high-confident PPT1-binding proteins. These proteins included a self-interaction of PPT1, two V-type ATPases, calcium voltage-gated channels, cytoskeletal proteins and others. Pathway analysis suggested their involvement in seizures and neuronal morphology. We then proceeded to demonstrate that hippocampal neurons from Ppt1-/- mice exhibit structural deficits, and further investigated electrophysiology parameters in the hippocampi of mutant mice, both in brain slices and dissociated postnatal primary cultures. Our studies reveal new mechanistic features involved in the pathophysiology of this devastating neurodegenerative disease.
PXD011591	30918498	The ABCB7-Like Transporter PexA in Rhodobacter capsulatus Is Involved in the Translocation of Reactive Sulfur Species. 	The ABCB7-like Transporter PexA in Rhodobacter capsulatus maintains proper Distribution of Reactive Sulfur Species	ABC transporter, ABCB7, Walker A motif, glutathione, persulfide, polysulfide, pyridoxal-5'-phosphate, reactive oxygen species, reactive sulfur species	The mitochondrial ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters ABCB7 in humans, Atm1 in yeast and ATM3 in plants, are highly conserved in their overall architecture and particularly in their glutathione binding pocket located within the transmembrane spanning domains. These transporters have attracted interest in the last two decades based on their proposed role in connecting the mitochondrial iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster assembly with its cytosolic Fe-S cluster assembly (CIA) counterpart. So far, the specific compound that is transported across the membrane remains unknown. In this report we characterized the ABCB7-like transporter Rcc02305 in Rhodobacter capsulatus, which shares 47% amino acid sequence identity with its mitochondrial counterpart. The constructed interposon mutant strain in R. capsulatus displayed increased levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species without a simultaneous accumulation of the cellular iron levels. The inhibition of endogenous glutathione biosynthesis resulted in an increase of total glutathione levels in the mutant strain. Bioinformatic analysis of the amino acid sequence motifs revealed a potential aminotransferase class-V pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP) binding site that overlaps with the Walker A motif within the nucleotide binding domains of the transporter. PLP is a well characterized cofactor of L-cysteine desulfurases like IscS and NFS1 which has a role in the formation of a protein-bound persulfide group within these proteins. We therefore suggest renaming the ABCB7-like transporter Rcc02305 in R. capsulatus to PexA for PLP binding exporter. We further suggest that this ABC-transporter in R. capsulatus is involved in the formation and export of polysulfide species to the periplasm.
PXD012924	30919622	Accurate Quantitative Proteomic Analyses Using Metabolic Labeling and High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS). 	Accurate quantitative proteomic analyses using metabolic labeling and High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS)	Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino acids in Culture (SILAC), high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS), phosphorylation, quantitative proteomics	Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) is routinely used to profile changes in protein and peptide abundance across different experimental paradigms. As with other quantitative proteomic approaches, the detection of peptide isotopomers can be limited by the presence of interference ions that ultimately affect the quality of quantitative measurements. Here, we evaluate high field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) to improve the accuracy and dynamic range of quantitative proteomic analyses using SILAC. We compared quantitative measurements for tryptic digests of isotopically labeled protein extracts mixed in different ratios using LC-MS/MS with and without FAIMS. To further reduce sample complexity, we also examined the improvement in quantitative measurements when combining strong cation exchange (SCX) fractionation prior to LC-MS/MS analyses. Using the same amount of sample consumed, analyses performed using FAIMS provided more than 30% and 200% increase in the number of quantifiable peptides compared to LC-MS/MS performed with and without SCX fractionation, respectively. Furthermore, FAIMS reduced the occurrence of interfering isobaric ions and improved the accuracy of quantitative measurements. We leveraged the application of FAIMS in phosphoproteomic analyses to profile dynamic changes in protein phosphorylation in HEK293 cells subjected to heat shock for periods up to 20 min. In addition to the enhanced phosphoproteomic coverage, FAIMS also provided the ability to separate phosphopeptide isomers that often coelute and can be misassigned in conventional LC-MS/MS experiments.
PXD009825	30922127	Ursodeoxycholic acid inhibits uptake and vasoconstrictor effects of taurocholate in human placenta. 	The effect of bile acids on human placental proteome	Elite, LC-MS, iTRAQ	Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) causes increased transfer of maternal bile acids to the fetus and an increased incidence of sudden fetal death. Treatment includes ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), but it is not clear if UDCA protects the fetus. This study explores the placental transport of the bile acid taurocholate (TC) by the organic anion-transporting polypeptide, (OATP)4A1, its effects on the placental proteome and vascular function, and how these are modified by UDCA. Various methodological approaches including placental villous fragments and Xenopus laevis oocytes were used to investigate UDCA transport. Placental perfusions and myography investigated the effect of TC on vasculature. The effects of acute TC exposure on placental tissue were investigated using quantitative proteomics. UDCA inhibited OATP4A1 activity in placental villous fragments and oocytes. TC induced vasoconstriction in placental and rat vasculature, which was attenuated by UDCA. Quantitative proteomic analysis of villous fragments showed direct effects of TC on multiple placental pathways, including oxidative stress and autophagy. The effects of TC on the placental proteome and vasculature demonstrate how bile acids may cause fetal distress in ICP. UDCA inhibition of OATP4A1 suggests it will protect the mother and fetus against the vascular effects of TC by inhibiting its cellular uptake. UDCA may protect the fetus in ICP by inhibiting OATP4A1-mediated bile acid transfer and TC-induced placental vasoconstriction. Understanding the physiologic mechanisms of UDCA may allow better therapeutic interventions to be designed specifically for the fetus in the future.-Lofthouse, E. M., Torrens, C., Manousopoulou, A., Nahar, M., Cleal, J. K., O'Kelly, I. M., Sengers, B. G., Garbis, S. D., Lewis, R. M. Ursodeoxycholic acid inhibits uptake and vasoconstrictor effects of taurocholate in human placenta.
PXD010449	30923110	Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) loss causes neurodegeneration by altering protein turnover in the first postnatal weeks. 	Analysis of UCHL1 knockout in brain	DUB, UCHL, brain	Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is one of the most abundant and enigmatic enzymes of the CNS. Based on existing UCH-L1 knockout models, UCH-L1 is thought to be required for the maintenance of axonal integrity, but not for neuronal development despite its high expression in neurons. Several lines of evidence suggest a role for UCH-L1 in mUB homeostasis, although the specific in vivo substrate remains elusive. Since the precise mechanisms underlying UCH-L1-deficient neurodegeneration remain unclear, we generated a transgenic mouse model of UCH-L1 deficiency. By performing biochemical and behavioral analyses we can show that UCH-L1 deficiency causes an acceleration of sensorimotor reflex development in the first postnatal week followed by a degeneration of motor function starting at periadolescence in the setting of normal cerebral mUB levels. In the first postnatal weeks, neuronal protein synthesis and proteasomal protein degradation are enhanced, with endoplasmic reticulum stress, and energy depletion, leading to proteasomal impairment and an accumulation of nondegraded ubiquitinated protein. Increased protein turnover is associated with enhanced mTORC1 activity restricted to the postnatal period in UCH-L1-deficient brains. Inhibition of mTORC1 with rapamycin decreases protein synthesis and ubiquitin accumulation in UCH-L1-deficient neurons. Strikingly, rapamycin treatment in the first 8 postnatal days ameliorates the neurological phenotype of UCH-L1-deficient mice up to 16 weeks, suggesting that early control of protein homeostasis is imperative for long-term neuronal survival. In summary, we identified a critical presymptomatic period during which UCH-L1-dependent enhanced protein synthesis results in neuronal strain and progressive loss of neuronal function.
PXD012318	30923826	EZHIP/CXorf67 mimics K27M mutated oncohistones and functions as an intrinsic inhibitor of PRC2 function in aggressive posterior fossa ependymoma. 	EZHIP / CXorf67 mimics K27M mutated oncohistones and functions as an intrinsic inhibitor of PRC2 function in aggressive posterior fossa ependymoma	CXorf67, EZHIP, Ependymoma, PRC2	BACKGROUND: Posterior fossa A (PFA) ependymomas are one of 9 molecular groups of ependymoma. PFA tumors are mainly diagnosed in infants and young children, show a poor prognosis, and are characterized by a lack of the repressive histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) mark. Recently, we reported overexpression of chromosome X open reading frame 67 (CXorf67) as a hallmark of PFA ependymoma and showed that CXorf67 can interact with enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), thereby inhibiting polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), but the mechanism of action remained unclear. METHODS: We performed mass spectrometry and peptide modeling analyses to identify the functional domain of CXorf67 responsible for binding and inhibition of EZH2. Our findings were validated by immunocytochemistry, western blot, and methyltransferase assays. RESULTS: We find that the inhibitory mechanism of CXorf67 is similar to diffuse midline gliomas harboring H3K27M mutations. A small, highly conserved peptide sequence located in the C-terminal region of CXorf67 mimics the sequence of K27M mutated histones and binds to the SET domain (Su(var)3-9/enhancer-of-zeste/trithorax) of EZH2. This interaction blocks EZH2 methyltransferase activity and inhibits PRC2 function, causing de-repression of PRC2 target genes, including genes involved in neurodevelopment. CONCLUSIONS: Expression of CXorf67 is an oncogenic mechanism that drives H3K27 hypomethylation in PFA tumors by mimicking K27M mutated histones. Disrupting the interaction between CXorf67 and EZH2 may serve as a novel targeted therapy for PFA tumors but also for other tumors that overexpress CXorf67. Based on its function, we have renamed CXorf67 as "EZH Inhibitory Protein" (EZHIP).
PXD013055	30924770	The homophilic receptor PTPRK selectively dephosphorylates multiple junctional regulators to promote cell-cell adhesion. 	The homophilic receptor PTPRK selectively dephosphorylates multiple junctional regulators to promote cell-cell adhesion	Phosphorylation, SILAC	Cell-cell communication in multicellular organisms depends on the dynamic and reversible phosphorylation of protein tyrosine residues. The receptor-linked protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) receive cues from the extracellular environment and are well placed to influence cell signaling. However, the direct events downstream of these receptors have been challenging to resolve. We report here that the homophilic receptor PTPRK is stabilized at cell-cell contacts in epithelial cells. By combining interaction studies, quantitative tyrosine phosphoproteomics, proximity labeling and dephosphorylation assays we identify high confidence PTPRK substrates. PTPRK directly and selectively dephosphorylates at least five substrates, including Afadin, PARD3 and delta-catenin family members, which are all important cell-cell adhesion regulators. In line with this, loss of PTPRK phosphatase activity leads to disrupted cell junctions and increased invasive characteristics. Thus, identifying PTPRK substrates provides insight into its downstream signaling and a potential molecular explanation for its proposed tumor suppressor function.
PXD011134	30926424	TGF-beta1/p65/MAT2A pathway regulates liver fibrogenesis via intracellular SAM. 	TGF-beta1/p65/MAT2A: a novel pathway involved in the regulation of intracellular SAM and liver fibrogenesis - Part1	MAT2A, liver fibrosis	BACKGROUND: Hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation induced by transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) plays a pivotal role in fibrogenesis, while the complex downstream mediators of TGF-beta1 in such process are largely unknown. METHODS: We performed pharmacoproteomic profiling of the mice liver tissues from control, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced fibrosis and NPLC0393 administrated groups. The target gene MAT2A was overexpressed or knocked down in vivo by tail vein injection of AAV vectors. We examined NF-kappaB transcriptional activity on MAT2A promoter via luciferase assay. Intracellular SAM contents were analyzed by LC-MS method. FINDINGS: We found that methionine adenosyltransferase 2A (MAT2A) is significantly upregulated in the CCl4-induced fibrosis mice, and application of NPLC0393, a known small molecule inhibitor of TGF-beta1 signaling pathway, inhibits the upregulation of MAT2A. Mechanistically, TGF-beta1 induces phosphorylation of p65, i.e., activation of NF-kappaB, thereby promoting mRNA transcription and protein expression of MAT2A and reduces S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) concentration in HSCs. Consistently, in vivo and in vitro knockdown of MAT2A alleviates CCl4- and TGF-beta1-induced HSC activation, whereas in vivo overexpression of MAT2A facilitates hepatic fibrosis and abolishes therapeutic effect of NPLC0393. INTERPRETATION: This study identifies TGF-beta1/p65/MAT2A pathway that is involved in the regulation of intracellular SAM concentration and liver fibrogenesis, suggesting that this pathway is a potential therapeutic target for hepatic fibrosis. FUND: This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 81500469, 81573873, 81774196 and 31800693), Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (No. Y15H030004), the National Key Research and Development Program from the Ministry of Science and Technology of China (No. 2017YFC1700200) and the Key Program of National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 8153000502).
PXD010946	30926672	Hypoxia-induced Changes in SUMO Conjugation Affect Transcriptional Regulation Under Low Oxygen. 	Hypoxia-induced changes in SUMO conjugation affect transcriptional regulation under low oxygen	Hypoxia, SILAC, SUMO	Hypoxia occurs in pathological conditions, such as cancer, as a result of the imbalance between oxygen supply and consumption by proliferating cells. HIFs are critical molecular mediators of the physiological response to hypoxia but also regulate multiple steps of carcinogenesis including tumor progression and metastasis. Recent data support that sumoylation, the covalent attachment of the Small Ubiquitin-related MOdifier (SUMO) to proteins, is involved in the activation of the hypoxic response and the ensuing signaling cascade. To gain insights into differences of the SUMO1 and SUMO2/3 proteome of HeLa cells under normoxia and cells grown for 48 h under hypoxic conditions, we employed endogenous SUMO-immunoprecipitation in combination with quantitative mass spectrometry (SILAC). The group of proteins whose abundance was increased both in the total proteome and in the SUMO IPs from hypoxic conditions was enriched in enzymes linked to the hypoxic response. In contrast, proteins whose SUMOylation status changed without concomitant change in abundance were predominantly transcriptions factors or transcription regulators. Particularly interesting was transcription factor TFAP2A (Activating enhancer binding Protein 2 alpha), whose sumoylation decreased on hypoxia. TFAP2A is known to interact with HIF-1 and we provide evidence that deSUMOylation of TFAP2A enhances the transcriptional activity of HIF-1 under hypoxic conditions. Overall, these results support the notion that SUMO-regulated signaling pathways contribute at many distinct levels to the cellular response to low oxygen.
PXD010594	30926673	Quantitative Microproteomics Based Characterization of the Central and Peripheral Nervous System of a Mouse Model of Krabbe Disease. 	Quantitative Microproteomics Based Characterization of the Central and Peripheral Nervous System of a Mouse Model of Krabbe Disease	Krabbe, TMT, Twitcher mouse, corpus callosum, motor cortex, sciatic nerves	Krabbe disease is a rare, childhood lysosomal storage disorder caused by a deficiency of galactosylceramide beta-galactosidase (GALC). The major effect of GALC deficiency is the accumulation of psychosine in the nervous system and widespread degeneration of oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells, causing rapid demyelination. The molecular mechanisms of Krabbe disease are not yet fully elucidated and a definite cure is still missing. Here we report the first in-depth characterization of the proteome of the Twitcher mouse, a spontaneous mouse model of Krabbe disease, to investigate the proteome changes in the Central and Peripheral Nervous System. We applied a TMT-based workflow to compare the proteomes of the corpus callosum, motor cortex and sciatic nerves of littermate homozygous Twitcher and wild-type mice. More than 400 protein groups exhibited differences in expression and included proteins involved in pathways that can be linked to Krabbe disease, such as inflammatory and defense response, lysosomal proteins accumulation, demyelination, reduced nervous system development and cell adhesion. These findings provide new insights on the molecular mechanisms of Krabbe disease, representing a starting point for future functional experiments to study the molecular pathogenesis of Krabbe disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010594.
PXD009073	30926779	Nucleoside analogue activators of cyclic AMP-independent protein kinase A of Trypanosoma. 	Label-free quantitative analysis of PKA-dependent proteome changes in Trypanosoma brucei	7-Cyano-7-deazainosine, PKA, Protein kinase A, Trypanosoma, label-free quantitative proteome analysis	Protein kinase A (PKA), the main effector of cAMP in eukaryotes, is a paradigm for the mechanisms of ligand-dependent and allosteric regulation in signalling. Here we report the orthologous but cAMP-independent PKA of the protozoan Trypanosoma and identify 7-deaza-nucleosides as potent activators (EC50 >= 6.5 nM) and high affinity ligands (KD >= 8 nM). A co-crystal structure of trypanosome PKA with 7-cyano-7-deazainosine and molecular docking show how substitution of key amino acids in both CNB domains of the regulatory subunit and its unique C-terminal alphaD helix account for this ligand swap between trypanosome PKA and canonical cAMP-dependent PKAs. We propose nucleoside-related endogenous activators of Trypanosoma brucei PKA (TbPKA). The existence of eukaryotic CNB domains not associated with binding of cyclic nucleotides suggests that orphan CNB domains in other eukaryotes may bind undiscovered signalling molecules. Phosphoproteome analysis validates 7-cyano-7-deazainosine as powerful cell-permeable inducer to explore cAMP-independent PKA signalling in medically important neglected pathogens.
PXD011899	30926795	USP32 regulates late endosomal transport and recycling through deubiquitylation of Rab7. 	USP32 regulates late endosomal transport and recycling through deubiquitylation of Rab7	Rab GTPase, USP32, endosomal trafficking, ubiquitin, ubiquitin specific protease	The endosomal system is a highly dynamic multifunctional organelle, whose complexity is regulated in part by reversible ubiquitylation. Despite the wide-ranging influence of ubiquitin in endosomal processes, relatively few enzymes utilizing ubiquitin have been described to control endosome integrity and function. Here we reveal the deubiquitylating enzyme (DUB) ubiquitin-specific protease 32 (USP32) as a powerful player in this context. Loss of USP32 inhibits late endosome (LE) transport and recycling of LE cargos, resulting in dispersion and swelling of the late compartment. Using SILAC-based ubiquitome profiling we identify the small GTPase Rab7-the logistical centerpiece of LE biology-as a substrate of USP32. Mechanistic studies reveal that LE transport effector RILP prefers ubiquitylation-deficient Rab7, while retromer-mediated LE recycling benefits from an intact cycle of Rab7 ubiquitylation. Collectively, our observations suggest that reversible ubiquitylation helps switch Rab7 between its various functions, thereby maintaining global spatiotemporal order in the endosomal system.
PXD011869	30926862	HDAC1 and HDAC2 independently regulate common and specific intrinsic responses in murine enteroids. 	Quantitative proteomic SILAC analysis of enteroids deleted for Hdac1 or Hdac2	HDAC1, HDAC2, Intestin, SILAC, enteroid	Both HDAC1 and HDAC2 are class I deacetylases acting as erasers of lysine-acetyl marks on histones and non-histone proteins. Several histone deacetylase inhibitors, either endogenous to the cell, such as the ketogenic beta-hydroxybutyrate metabolite, or exogenous, such as butyrate, a microbial-derived metabolite, regulate HDAC activity. Different combinations of intestinal epithelial cell (IEC)-specific Hdac1 and/or Hdac2 deletion differentially alter mucosal homeostasis in mice. Thus, HDAC1 and HDAC2 could act as sensors and transmitters of environmental signals to the mucosa. In this study, enteroid culture models deleted for Hdac1 or Hdac2 were established to determine IEC-specific function as assessed by global transcriptomic and proteomic approaches. Results show that Hdac1 or Hdac2 deficiency altered differentiation of Paneth and goblet secretory cells, which sustain physical and chemical protection barriers, and increased intermediate secretory cell precursor numbers. Furthermore, IEC Hdac1- and Hdac2-dependent common and specific biological processes were identified, including oxidation-reduction, inflammatory responses, and lipid-related metabolic processes, as well as canonical pathways and upstream regulators related to environment-dependent signaling through steroid receptor pathways, among others. These findings uncover unrecognized regulatory similarities and differences between Hdac1 and Hdac2 in IEC, and demonstrate how HDAC1 and HDAC2 may complement each other to regulate the intrinsic IEC phenotype.
PXD003310	30927234	Effect of disease-associated SLC9A9 mutations on protein-protein interaction networks: implications for molecular mechanisms for ADHD and autism. 	NHE9 interactome(HEK293) -  Effect of disease-associated SLC9A9 mutations on protein-protein interaction networks: implications for molecular mechanisms for ADHD and autism	ADHD, NHE9, autism, protein interactions	Na(+)/H(+) Exchanger 9 (NHE9) is an endosomal membrane protein encoded by the Solute Carrier 9A, member 9 gene (SLC9A9). SLC9A9 has been implicated in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), epilepsy, multiple sclerosis and cancers. To better understand the function of NHE9 and the effects of disease-associated variants on protein-protein interactions, we conducted a quantitative analysis of the NHE9 interactome using co-immunoprecipitation and isobaric labeling-based quantitative mass spectrometry. We identified 100 proteins that interact with NHE9. These proteins were enriched in known functional pathways for NHE9: the endocytosis, protein ubiquitination and phagosome pathways, as well as some novel pathways including oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, mTOR signaling, cell death and RNA processing pathways. An ADHD-associated mutation (A409P) significantly altered NHE9's interactions with a subset of proteins involved in caveolae-mediated endocytosis and MAP2K2-mediated downstream signaling. An ASD nonsense mutation in SLC9A9, R423X, produced no-detectable amount of NHE9, suggesting the overall loss of NHE9 functional networks. In addition, seven of the NHE9 interactors are products of known autism candidate genes (Simons Foundation Autism Research Initiative, SFARI Gene) and 90% of the NHE9 interactome overlap with SFARI protein interaction network PIN (p < 0.0001), supporting the role of NHE9 interactome in ASDs molecular mechanisms. Our results provide a detailed understanding of the functions of protein NHE9 and its disrupted interactions, possibly underlying ADHD and ASDs. Furthermore, our methodological framework proved useful for functional characterization of disease-associated genetic variants and suggestion of druggable targets.
PXD010468	30930119	CHD1 Loss Alters AR Binding at Lineage-Specific Enhancers and Modulates Distinct Transcriptional Programs to Drive Prostate Tumorigenesis. 	CHD1_RIME	chromatin, prostate cancer, rime	Deletion of the gene encoding the chromatin remodeler CHD1 is among the most common alterations in prostate cancer (PCa); however, the tumor-suppressive functions of CHD1 and reasons for its tissue-specific loss remain undefined. We demonstrated that CHD1 occupied prostate-specific enhancers enriched for the androgen receptor (AR) and lineage-specific cofactors. Upon CHD1 loss, the AR cistrome was redistributed in patterns consistent with the oncogenic AR cistrome in PCa samples and drove tumor formation in the murine prostate. Notably, this cistrome shift was associated with a unique AR transcriptional signature enriched for pro-oncogenic pathways unique to this tumor subclass. Collectively, these data credential CHD1 as a tumor suppressor in the prostate that constrains AR binding/function to limit tumor progression.
PXD012692	30930164	Discovery of Covalent CDK14 Inhibitors with Pan-TAIRE Family Specificity. 	Discovery of covalent CDK14 inhibitors with pan-TAIRE family specificity	CDK14, TAIRE kinase, cell-cycle, covalent inhibitor, druggable genome, mitosis	Cyclin-dependent kinase 14 (CDK14) and other TAIRE family kinases (CDKs 15-18) are proteins that lack functional annotation but are frequent off-targets of clinical kinase inhibitors. In this study we develop and characterize FMF-04-159-2, a tool compound that specifically targets CDK14 covalently and possesses a TAIRE kinase-biased selectivity profile. This tool compound and its reversible analog were used to characterize the cellular consequences of covalent CDK14 inhibition, including an unbiased investigation using phospho-proteomics. To reduce confounding off-target activity, washout conditions were used to deconvolute CDK14-specific effects. This investigation suggested that CDK14 plays a supporting role in cell-cycle regulation, particularly mitotic progression, and identified putative CDK14 substrates. Together, these results represent an important step forward in understanding the cellular consequences of inhibiting CDK14 kinase activity.
PXD012227	30930919	PhDHS Is Involved in Chloroplast Development in Petunia. 	PhDHS is involved in chloroplast development in petunia	Chloroplast development, Deoxyhypusine synthase, Petunia, Photosynthesis, sectored chlorotic leaf	Deoxyhypusine synthase (DHS) is encoded by a nuclear gene and is the key enzyme involved in the post-translational activation of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF5A. DHS plays important roles in plant growth and development. To gain a better understanding of DHS, the petunia (Petunia hybrida) PhDHS gene was isolated, and the role of PhDHS in plant growth was analyzed. PhDHS protein was localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm. Virus-mediated PhDHS silencing caused a sectored chlorotic leaf phenotype. Chlorophyll levels and photosystem II activity were reduced, and chloroplast development was abnormal in PhDHS-silenced leaves. In addition, PhDHS silencing resulted in extended leaf longevity and thick leaves. A proteome assay revealed that 308 proteins are upregulated and 266 proteins are downregulated in PhDHS-silenced plants compared with control, among the latter, 21 proteins of photosystem I and photosystem II and 12 thylakoid (thylakoid lumen and thylakoid membrane) proteins. In addition, the mRNA level of PheIF5A-1 significantly decreased in PhDHS-silenced plants, while that of another three PheIF5As were not significantly affected in PhDHS-silenced plants. Thus, silencing of PhDHS affects photosynthesis presumably as an indirect effect due to reduced expression of PheIF5A-1 in petunia. Significance: PhDHS-silenced plants develop yellow leaves and exhibit a reduced level of photosynthetic pigment in mesophyll cells. In addition, arrested development of chloroplasts is observed in the yellow leaves.
PXD009086	30931934	Fasting differentially alters the hypothalamic proteome of chickens from lines with the propensity to be anorexic or obese. 	Fasting differentially alters the hypothalamic proteome of chickens from lines selected for low or high body weight	chicken, gallus, hypothalamus, weight	BACKGROUND: The hypothalamus is the ultimate modulator of appetite and energy balance and therefore sensitive to changes in nutritional state. Chicks from lines selected for low (LWS) and high (HWS) body weight are hypophagic and compulsive eaters, respectively, and differ in their propensity to become obese and in their hypothalamic mRNA response to fasting. METHODS: As fasting-induced changes in hypothalamic proteins are unknown, we investigated the hypothalamic proteomes of 5-day old LWS and HWS chicks in the fed and fasted states using a label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approach. RESULTS: A total of 744 proteins were identified in the chicken hypothalamus, and 268 differentially abundant proteins were identified among four pairwise comparisons. Ninety-five proteins were associated with the response to fasting in HWS chicks, and 23 proteins were associated with the response to fasting in LWS chicks. Fasting-responsive proteins in HWS chicks were significantly enriched in ATP metabolic processes, glyoxylate/dicarboxylate metabolism, and ribosome function. There was no enrichment for any pathways in LWS chicks in response to fasting. In the fasted and fed states, 159 and 119 proteins differed between HWS and LWS, respectively. Oxidative phosphorylation, citric acid cycle, and carbon metabolism were the main pathways associated with differences between the two lines of chicks. Enzymes associated with metabolic pathways differed between HWS and LWS in both nutritional states, including fumarase, aspartate aminotransferase, mitochondrial GOT2, 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase, chondrogenesis associated lipocalin, sialic acid synthase, arylamine N-acetyltransferase, pineal gland isozyme NAT-3, and succinate dehydrogenase [ubiquinone] flavoprotein subunit, mitochondrial. CONCLUSIONS: These results provide insights into the hypothalamic metabolic pathways that are affected by nutritional status and the regulation of appetite and eating behavior.
PXD012563	30931944	USP8 maintains embryonic stem cell stemness via deubiquitination of EPG5. 	USP8 maintains ESC stemness via deubiquitination of EPG5	ProteomeXchange project tag: Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), i.e.mouse.escs.epg5.usp8.LC-MSMS	Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can propagate in an undifferentiated state indefinitely in culture and retain the potential to differentiate into any somatic lineage as well as germ cells. The catabolic process autophagy has been reported to be involved in ESC identity regulation, but the underlying mechanism is still largely unknown. Here we show that EPG5, a eukaryotic-specific autophagy regulator which mediates autophagosome/lysosome fusion, is highly expressed in ESCs and contributes to ESC identity maintenance. We identify that the deubiquitinating enzyme USP8 binds to the Coiled-coil domain of EPG5. Mechanistically, USP8 directly removes non-classical K63-linked ubiquitin chains from EPG5 at Lysine 252, leading to enhanced interaction between EPG5 and LC3. We propose that deubiquitination of EPG5 by USP8 guards the autophagic flux in ESCs to maintain their stemness. This work uncovers a novel crosstalk pathway between ubiquitination and autophagy through USP8-EPG5 interaction to regulate the stemness of ESCs.
PXD012046	30935261	Ozone-induced damage of fibrinogen molecules: identification of oxidation sites by high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Oxidized fibrinogen HPLC-MS/MS	HPLC-MS/MS, fibrinogen, oxidation, oxidative post-translational modifications	Fibrinogen is highly susceptible to oxidation compared to other plasma proteins. Fibrinogen oxidation damages its structure and affects the protein function. Ozone-induced oxidative modifications of the fibrinogen Aalpha, Bbeta, and gamma polypeptide chains upon addition of various amounts of the oxidiser were studied by mass spectrometry. Amino acid residues located on all three chains and main structural parts of the protein were revealed to be involved in oxidation. The alphaC-connector was shown to be most vulnerable to oxidation as compared to other structural parts while the E region turned out to be the most protected area of the protein. For the first time, it was established that numerous amino acid residues responsible for the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin remain unaffected upon fibrinogen oxidation. The data obtained in this study indicate that none of the identified residues, which are considered crucial for the binding of both hole "a" and hole "b" to knob "A" and knob "B", respectively, as well as those responsible for the thrombin binding to fibrinogen E region, have been subjected to chemical alterations under moderate oxidation. The data on fibrinogen oxidation acquired in the current study enable one to assume that some of the structural fibrinogen parts and easily oxidisable residues could be endowed with antioxidant properties. New findings presented here could be essential for the detection of adaptive molecular mechanisms capable of mitigating the detrimental action of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on the functioning of oxidatively damaged fibrinogen. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012046. Highlights Various oxidative modifications were detected in fibrinogen by mass spectrometry alphaC-connector has been shown to be most susceptible to oxidation E region proved to be least vulnerable to the action of the oxidising agent Some of the Met residues in the fibrinogen structure could operate as ROS scavengers.
PXD012701	30936209	Phytoplasma-induced Changes in the Acetylome and Succinylome of Paulownia tomentosa Provide Evidence for Involvement of Acetylated Proteins in Witches' Broom Disease. 	Phytoplasma induced changes in acetylatome and succinylatome provide evidence for involvement of acetylated proteins in Paulownia witches' broom	Acetylation, Paulownia, succinylation	Lysine acetylation and succinylation are post-translational modifications of proteins that have been shown to play roles in plants response to pathogen infection. Phytoplasma infection can directly alter multiple metabolic processes in the deciduous plant Paulownia and lead to Paulownia witches' broom (PaWB) disease, the major cause of Paulownia mortality worldwide. However, the extent and function of lysine aceylation and succinylation during phytoplasma infection have yet to be explored. Here, we investigated the changes in the proteome, acetylome, and succinylome of phytoplasma-infected Paulownia tomentosa seedlings using quantitative mass spectrometry. In total, we identified 8963 proteins, 2893 acetylated proteins (5558 acetylation sites), and 1271 succinylated proteins (1970 succinylation sites), with 425 (533 sites) simultaneously acetylated and succinylated. Comparative analysis revealed that 276 proteins, 546 acetylated proteins (741 acetylation sites) and 5 succinylated proteins (5 succinylation sites) were regulated in response to phytoplasma infection, suggesting that acetylation may be more important than succinylation in PaWB. Enzymatic assays showed that acetylation of specific sites in protochlorophyllide reductase and RuBisCO, key enzymes in chlorophyll and starch biosynthesis, respectively, modifies their activity in phytoplasma-infected seedlings. On the basis of these results, we propose a model to elucidate the molecular mechanism of responses to PaWB and offer a resource for functional studies on the effects of acetylation on protein function.
PXD009155	30936521	Dual chemical probes enable quantitative system-wide analysis of protein prenylation and prenylation dynamics. 	A Quantitative Chemical Proteomics Approach Using a Novel Two-Probe System Enables System-Wide Analysis of Protein Prenylation	chemical proteomics, prenylation	Post-translational farnesylation or geranylgeranylation at a C-terminal cysteine residue regulates the localization and function of over 100 proteins, including the Ras isoforms, and is a therapeutic target in diseases including cancer and infection. Here, we report global and selective profiling of prenylated proteins in living cells enabled by the development of isoprenoid analogues YnF and YnGG in combination with quantitative chemical proteomics. Eighty prenylated proteins were identified in a single human cell line, 64 for the first time at endogenous abundance without metabolic perturbation. We further demonstrate that YnF and YnGG enable direct identification of post-translationally processed prenylated peptides, proteome-wide quantitative analysis of prenylation dynamics and alternative prenylation in response to four different prenyltransferase inhibitors, and quantification of defective Rab prenylation in a model of the retinal degenerative disease choroideremia.
PXD008899	30936560	TagGraph reveals vast protein modification landscapes from large tandem mass spectrometry datasets. 	Re-analysis of Hela phosphoproteome (PXD000612) with TagGraph	Hela, PTM, Posphorylation, TagGraph	Although mass spectrometry is well suited to identifying thousands of potential protein post-translational modifications (PTMs), it has historically been biased towards just a few. To measure the entire set of PTMs across diverse proteomes, software must overcome the dual challenges of covering enormous search spaces and distinguishing correct from incorrect spectrum interpretations. Here, we describe TagGraph, a computational tool that overcomes both challenges with an unrestricted string-based search method that is as much as 350-fold faster than existing approaches, and a probabilistic validation model that we optimized for PTM assignments. We applied TagGraph to a published human proteomic dataset of 25 million mass spectra and tripled confident spectrum identifications compared to its original analysis. We identified thousands of modification types on almost 1 million sites in the proteome. We show alternative contexts for highly abundant yet understudied PTMs such as proline hydroxylation, and its unexpected association with cancer mutations. By enabling broad characterization of PTMs, TagGraph informs as to how their functions and regulation intersect.
PXD012520	30938160	Evosep One Enables Robust Deep Proteome Coverage Using Tandem Mass Tags while Significantly Reducing Instrument Time. 	Evosep One Enables Robust Quantitative Deep Proteome Coverage using Tandem Mass Tags while Significantly Reducing Machine Time	Evosep, TMT, mass analysis time, nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patient-derived xenografts (PDX)	The balance between comprehensively analyzing the proteome and using valuable mass spectrometry time is a genuine challenge in the field of proteomics. Multidimensional fractionation strategies have significantly increased proteome coverage, but often at the cost of increased mass analysis time, despite advances in mass spectrometer acquisition rates. Recently, the Evosep One liquid chromatography system was shown to analyze peptide samples in a high-throughput manner without sacrificing in-depth proteomics coverage. We demonstrate the incorporation of Evosep One technology into our multiplexing workflow for analysis of tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeled nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patient-derived xenografts (PDXs). By the use of a 30 samples per day Evosep workflow, >12 000 proteins were identified in 48 h of mass spectrometry time, which is comparable to the number of proteins identified by our conventional concatenated EASY-nLC workflow in 60 h. Shorter Evosep gradient lengths reduced the number of protein identifications by 10% while decreasing the mass analysis time by 50%. This Evosep workflow will enable quantitative analysis of multiplexed samples in less time without conceding depth of proteome coverage.
PXD010071	30938447	The unique photosynthetic apparatus of Pinaceae: analysis of photosynthetic complexes in Picea abies. 	Thylakoids of Picea abies -  The unique photosynthetic apparatus of Pinaceae - Analysis of photosynthetic complexes in Norway spruce (Piceaabies)	2D lpBN-SDS-PAGE, Photosynthesis, Picea abies, Spruce, Thylakoids	Pinaceae are the predominant photosynthetic species in boreal forests, but so far no detailed description of the protein components of the photosynthetic apparatus of these gymnosperms has been available. In this study we report a detailed characterization of the thylakoid photosynthetic machinery of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst). We first customized a spruce thylakoid protein database from translated transcript sequences combined with existing protein sequences derived from gene models, which enabled reliable tandem mass spectrometry identification of P. abies thylakoid proteins from two-dimensional large pore blue-native/SDS-PAGE. This allowed a direct comparison of the two-dimensional protein map of thylakoid protein complexes from P. abies with the model angiosperm Arabidopsis thaliana. Although the subunit composition of P. abies core PSI and PSII complexes is largely similar to that of Arabidopsis, there was a high abundance of a smaller PSI subcomplex, closely resembling the assembly intermediate PSI* complex. In addition, the evolutionary distribution of light-harvesting complex (LHC) family members of Pinaceae was compared in silico with other land plants, revealing that P. abies and other Pinaceae (also Gnetaceae and Welwitschiaceae) have lost LHCB4, but retained LHCB8 (formerly called LHCB4.3). The findings reported here show the composition of the photosynthetic apparatus of P. abies and other Pinaceae members to be unique among land plants.
PXD010610	30938511	Benzo[ a]pyrene Induction of Glutathione S-Transferases: An Activity-Based Protein Profiling Investigation. 	Glutathione S-transferase induction after exposure to benzo[a]pyrene	B[a]P, GSH, GST, Glutathione, PAH, benzo[a]pyrene, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are ubiquitous environmental contaminants generated from combustion of carbon-based matter. Upon ingestion, these molecules can be bioactivated by cytochrome P450 monooxygenases to oxidized toxic metabolites. Some of these metabolites are potent carcinogens that can form irreversible adducts with DNA and other biological macromolecules. Conjugative enzymes, such as glutathione S-transferases or UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, are responsible for the detoxification and/or facilitate the elimination of these carcinogens. While responses to PAH exposures have been extensively studied for the bioactivating cytochrome P450 enzymes, much less is known regarding the response of glutathione S-transferases in mammalian systems. In this study, we investigated the expression and activity responses of murine hepatic glutathione S-transferases to benzo[ a]pyrene exposure using global proteomics and activity-based protein profiling for chemoproteomics, respectively. Using this approach, we identified several enzymes exhibiting increased activity including GSTA2, M1, M2, M4, M6, and P1. The activity of one GST enzyme, GSTA4, was found to be downregulated with increasing B[ a]P dose. Activity responses of several of these enzymes were identified as being expression-independent when comparing global and activity-based data sets, possibly alluding to as of yet unknown regulatory post-translational mechanisms.
PXD012582	30940651	Indoxyl Sulfate and p-Cresyl Sulfate Promote Vascular Calcification and Associate with Glucose Intolerance. 	Indoxyl sulfate and p-cresyl sulfate directly promote vascular calcification via activation of inflammation and coagulation pathways	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Kidney Urine (B/D-HPP), chronic kidney disease, indoxyl sulfate, inflamm, vascular calcification	BACKGROUND: Protein-bound uremic toxins indoxyl sulfate (IS) and p-cresyl sulfate (PCS) have been associated with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with CKD. However, direct evidence for a role of these toxins in CKD-related vascular calcification has not been reported. METHODS: To study early and late vascular alterations by toxin exposure, we exposed CKD rats to vehicle, IS (150 mg/kg per day), or PCS (150 mg/kg per day) for either 4 days (short-term exposure) or 7 weeks (long-term exposure). We also performed unbiased proteomic analyses of arterial samples coupled to functional bioinformatic annotation analyses to investigate molecular signaling events associated with toxin-mediated arterial calcification. RESULTS: Long-term exposure to either toxin at serum levels similar to those experienced by patients with CKD significantly increased calcification in the aorta and peripheral arteries. Our analyses revealed an association between calcification events, acute-phase response signaling, and coagulation and glucometabolic signaling pathways, whereas escape from toxin-induced calcification was linked with liver X receptors and farnesoid X/liver X receptor signaling pathways. Additional metabolic linkage to these pathways revealed that IS and PCS exposure engendered a prodiabetic state evidenced by elevated resting glucose and reduced GLUT1 expression. Short-term exposure to IS and PCS (before calcification had been established) showed activation of inflammation and coagulation signaling pathways in the aorta, demonstrating that these signaling pathways are causally implicated in toxin-induced arterial calcification. CONCLUSIONS: In CKD, both IS and PCS directly promote vascular calcification via activation of inflammation and coagulation pathways and were strongly associated with impaired glucose homeostasis.
PXD012031	30940698	Intestinal Epithelial Cells and the Microbiome Undergo Swift Reprogramming at the Inception of Colonic Citrobacter rodentium Infection. 	Intestinal crypt cells and the microbiome undergo abrupt reprogramming at the onset of colonic infection	Colon, Infection, citrobacter, tmt	We used the mouse attaching and effacing (A/E) pathogen Citrobacter rodentium, which models the human A/E pathogens enteropathogenic Escherichia coli and enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EPEC and EHEC), to temporally resolve intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) responses and changes to the microbiome during in vivo infection. We found the host to be unresponsive during the first 3 days postinfection (DPI), when C. rodentium resides in the caecum. In contrast, at 4 DPI, the day of colonic colonization, despite only sporadic adhesion to the apex of the crypt, we observed robust upregulation of cell cycle and DNA repair processes, which were associated with expansion of the crypt Ki67-positive replicative zone, and downregulation of multiple metabolic processes (including the tricarboxylic acid [TCA] cycle and oxidative phosphorylation). Moreover, we observed dramatic depletion of goblet and deep crypt secretory cells and an atypical regulation of cholesterol homeostasis in IECs during early infection, with simultaneous upregulation of cholesterol biogenesis (e.g., 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase [Hmgcr]), import (e.g., low-density lipoprotein receptor [Ldlr]), and efflux (e.g., AbcA1). We also detected interleukin 22 (IL-22) responses in IECs (e.g., Reg3gamma) on the day of colonic colonization, which occurred concomitantly with a bloom of commensal Enterobacteriaceae on the mucosal surface. These results unravel a new paradigm in host-pathogen-microbiome interactions, showing for the first time that sensing a small number of pathogenic bacteria triggers swift intrinsic changes to the IEC composition and function, in tandem with significant changes to the mucosa-associated microbiome, which parallel innate immune responses.IMPORTANCE The mouse pathogen C. rodentium is a widely used model for colonic infection and has been a major tool in fundamental discoveries in the fields of bacterial pathogenesis and mucosal immunology. Despite extensive studies probing acute C. rodentium infection, our understanding of the early stages preceding the infection climax remains relatively undetailed. To this end, we apply a multiomics approach to resolve temporal changes to the host and microbiome during early infection. Unexpectedly, we found immediate and dramatic responses occurring on the day of colonic infection, both in the host intestinal epithelial cells and in the microbiome. Our study suggests changes in cholesterol and carbon metabolism in epithelial cells are instantly induced upon pathogen detection in the colon, corresponding with a shift to primarily facultative anaerobes constituting the microbiome. This study contributes to our knowledge of disease pathogenesis and mechanisms of barrier regulation, which is required for development of novel therapeutics targeting the intestinal epithelium.
PXD009070	30940768	Proteomics profiling of arginine methylation defines PRMT5 substrate specificity. 	Proteomics Profiling of Arginine Methylation Defines PRMT5 Substarate Specificity	Arginine methylation, LC-MS, PRMT5	Protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) catalyze arginine methylation on both chromatin-bound and cytoplasmic proteins. Accumulating evidence supports the involvement of PRMT5, the major type II PRMT, in cell survival and differentiation pathways that are important during development and in tumorigenesis. PRMT5 is an attractive drug target in various cancers, and inhibitors are currently in oncological clinical trials. Nonetheless, given the complex biology of PRMT5 and its multiple nonhistone substrates, it is paramount to fully characterize these dynamic changes in methylation and to link them to the observed anticancer effects to fully understand the functions of PRMT5 and the consequences of its inhibition. Here, we used a newly established pipeline coupling stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) with immunoenriched methyl peptides to globally profile arginine monomethylation and symmetric dimethylation after PRMT5 inhibition by a selective inhibitor. We adopted heavy methyl SILAC as an orthogonal validation method to reduce the false discovery rate. Through in vitro methylation assays, we validated a set of PRMT5 targets identified by mass spectrometry and provided previously unknown mechanistic insights into the preference of the enzyme to methylate arginine sandwiched between two neighboring glycines (a Gly-Arg-Gly, or "GRG," sequence). Our analysis led to the identification of previously unknown PRMT5 substrates, thus both providing insight into the global effects of PRMT5 and its inhibition in live cells, beyond chromatin, and refining our knowledge of its substrate specificity.
PXD011918	30940800	WNT5A is transported via lipoprotein particles in the cerebrospinal fluid to regulate hindbrain morphogenesis. 	WNT5A is transported via lipoprotein particles in the cerebrospinal fluid to regulate hindbrain morphogenesis	WNT5A, co-immunoprecipitation	WNTs are lipid-modified proteins that control multiple functions in development and disease via short- and long-range signaling. However, it is unclear how these hydrophobic molecules spread over long distances in the mammalian brain. Here we show that WNT5A is produced by the choroid plexus (ChP) of the developing hindbrain, but not the telencephalon, in both mouse and human. Since the ChP produces and secretes the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), we examine the presence of WNT5A in the CSF and find that it is associated with lipoprotein particles rather than exosomes. Moreover, since the CSF flows along the apical surface of hindbrain progenitors not expressing Wnt5a, we examined whether deletion of Wnt5a in the ChP controls their function and find that cerebellar morphogenesis is impaired. Our study thus identifies the CSF as a route and lipoprotein particles as a vehicle for long-range transport of biologically active WNT in the central nervous system.
PXD012941	30940825	Lysine-specific demethylase 2A enhances binding of various nuclear factors to CpG-rich genomic DNAs by action of its CXXC-PHD domain. 	Lysine-specific demethylase 2A enhances binding of various nuclear factors to CpG-rich genomic DNAs by action of its CXXC-PHD domain	GeLC-MS/MS, Tandem mass tag	The lysine-specific demethylase 2A gene (KDM2A) is ubiquitously expressed and its transcripts consist of several alternatively spliced forms, including KDM2A and the shorter form N782 that lacks the 3' end encoding F-box and LRR. KDM2A binds to numerous CpG-rich genomic loci and regulates various cellular activities; however, the mechanism of the pleiotropic function is unknown. Here, we identify the mechanism of KDM2A played by its CXXC-PHD domain. KDM2A is necessary for a rapid proliferation of post-natal keratinocytes while its 3' end eclipses the stimulatory effect. EGFP-N782 binds to chromatin together with the XRCC5/6 complex, and the CXXC-PHD domain regulates the CpG-rich IGFBPL1 promoter. In vitro, CXXC-PHD enhances binding of nuclear extract ORC3 to the CpG-rich promoter, but not to the AT-rich DIP2B promoter to which ORC3 binds constitutively. Furthermore, CXXC-PHD recruits 94 nuclear factors involved in replication, ribosome synthesis, and mitosis, including POLR1A to the IGFBPL1 promoter. This recruitment is unprecedented; however, the result suggests that these nuclear factors bind to their cognate loci, as substantiated by the result that CXXC-PHD recruits POLR1A to the rDNA promoter. We propose that CXXC-PHD promotes permissiveness for nuclear factors to interact, but involvement of the XRCC5/6 complex in the recruitment is undetermined.
PXD012175	30941001	Cx43-Associated Secretome and Interactome Reveal Synergistic Mechanisms for Glioma Migration and MMP3 Activation. 	Secretome analysis of Cx43 expressing cells	Glioma, connexin, connexin43, secretome	Extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, degradation and glioma cell motility are critical aspects of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Despite being a rich source of potential biomarkers and targets for therapeutic advance, the dynamic changes occurring within the extracellular environment that are specific to GBM motility have yet to be fully resolved. The gap junction protein connexin43 (Cx43) increases glioma migration and invasion in a variety of in vitro and in vivo models. In this study, the upregulation of Cx43 in C6 glioma cells induced morphological changes and the secretion of proteins associated with cell motility. Demonstrating the selective engagement of ECM remodeling networks, secretome analysis revealed the near-binary increase of osteopontin and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3), with gelatinase and NFF-3 assays confirming the proteolytic activities. Informatic analysis of interactome and secretome downstream of Cx43 identifies networks of glioma motility that appear to be synergistically engaged. The data presented here implicate ECM remodeling and matrikine signals downstream of Cx43/MMP3/osteopontin and ARK1B10 inhibition as possible avenues to inhibit GBM.
PXD012494	30943267	Proximity-dependent proteomics of the Chlamydia trachomatis inclusion membrane reveals functional interactions with endoplasmic reticulum exit sites. 	Proximity-dependent proteomics of the Chlamydia trachomatis inclusion membrane (revised)	APEX, Chlamydia, endoplasmic reticulum	Chlamydia trachomatis is the most common cause of bacterial sexually transmitted infection, responsible for millions of infections each year. Despite this high prevalence, the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms of Chlamydia pathogenesis has been difficult due to limitations in genetic tools and its intracellular developmental cycle. Within a host epithelial cell, chlamydiae replicate within a vacuole called the inclusion. Many Chlamydia-host interactions are thought to be mediated by the Inc family of type III secreted proteins that are anchored in the inclusion membrane, but their array of host targets are largely unknown. To investigate how the inclusion membrane proteome changes over the course of an infected cell, we have adapted the APEX2 system of proximity-dependent biotinylation. APEX2 is capable of specifically labeling proteins within a 20 nm radius in living cells. We transformed C. trachomatis to express the enzyme APEX2 fused to known inclusion membrane proteins, allowing biotinylation and purification of inclusion-associated proteins. Using quantitative mass spectrometry against APEX2 labeled samples, we identified over 400 proteins associated with the inclusion membrane at early, middle, and late stages of epithelial cell infection. This system was sensitive enough to detect inclusion interacting proteins early in the developmental cycle, at 8 hours post infection, a previously intractable time point. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed a novel, early association between C. trachomatis inclusions and endoplasmic reticulum exit sites (ERES), functional regions of the ER where COPII-coated vesicles originate. Pharmacological and genetic disruption of ERES function severely restricted early chlamydial growth and the development of infectious progeny. APEX2 is therefore a powerful in situ approach for identifying critical protein interactions on the membranes of pathogen-containing vacuoles. Furthermore, the data derived from proteomic mapping of Chlamydia inclusions has illuminated an important functional role for ERES in promoting chlamydial developmental growth.
PXD010175	30944321	Proteogenomics and Hi-C reveal transcriptional dysregulation in high hyperdiploid childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 	Proteogenomics of High hyperdiploid childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia	Leukemia, Proteogenomics	Hyperdiploidy, i.e. gain of whole chromosomes, is one of the most common genetic features of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but its pathogenetic impact is poorly understood. Here, we report a proteogenomic analysis on matched datasets from genomic profiling, RNA-sequencing, and mass spectrometry-based analysis of >8,000 genes and proteins as well as Hi-C of primary patient samples from hyperdiploid and ETV6/RUNX1-positive pediatric ALL. We show that CTCF and cohesin, which are master regulators of chromatin architecture, display low expression in hyperdiploid ALL. In line with this, a general genome-wide dysregulation of gene expression in relation to topologically associating domain (TAD) borders were seen in the hyperdiploid group. Furthermore, Hi-C of a limited number of hyperdiploid childhood ALL cases revealed that 2/4 cases displayed a clear loss of TAD boundary strength and 3/4 showed reduced insulation at TAD borders, with putative leukemogenic effects.
PXD011784	30945869	Identification of 4-Hydroxyproline at the Xaa Position in Collagen by Mass Spectrometry. 	Identification of 4-Hydroxyproline at the Xaa Position in Collagen by Mass Spectrometry	Ab initio, Collagen, ETD, Orbitrap Fusion, PTM, colorectal liver metastasis, hydroxyproline, liver, posttranslational modification	Collagen has a triple helix form, structured by a [-Gly-Xaa-Yaa-] repetition, where Xaa and Yaa are amino acids. This repeating unit can be post-translationally modified by enzymes, where proline is often hydroxylated into hydroxyproline (Hyp). Two Hyp isomers occur in collagen: 4-hydroxyproline (4Hyp, Gly-Xaa-Pro, substrate for 4-prolyl hydroxylase) and 3-hydroxyproline (3Hyp, Gly-Pro-4Hyp, substrate for 3-prolyl hydroxylase). If 4Hyp is lacking at the Yaa position, then Pro at the Xaa position should remain unmodified. Nevertheless, in literature 41 positions have been described where Hyp occurs at the Xaa position (?xHyp) lacking an adjacent 4Hyp. We report four additional positions in liver and colorectal liver metastasis tissue (CRLM). We studied the sequence commonalities between the 45 known positions of ?xHyp. Alanine and glutamine were frequently present adjacent to ?xHyp. We showed that proline, position 584 in COL1A2, had a lower rate of modification in CRLM than in healthy liver. The isomeric identity of ?xHyp, that is, 3- and/or 4Hyp, remains unknown. We present a proof of principle identification of ?xHyp. This identification is based on liquid chromatography retention time differences and mass spectrometry using ETD-HCD fragmentation, complemented by ab initio calculations. Both techniques identify ?xHyp at position 584 in COL1A2 as 4-hydroxyproline (4xHyp).
PXD011105	30946644	Insertion sequences drive the emergence of a highly adapted human pathogen. 	Proteomic characterization of a hyper-virulent isolate of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, adaptation, antibiotic resistance, nanoLC-MS/MS, virulence	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a highly adaptive opportunistic pathogen that can have serious health consequences in patients with lung disorders. Taxonomic outliers of P. aeruginosa of environmental origin have recently emerged as infectious for humans. Here, we present the first genome-wide analysis of an isolate that caused fatal haemorrhagic pneumonia. In two clones, CLJ1 and CLJ3, sequentially recovered from a patient with chronic pulmonary disease, insertion of a mobile genetic element into the P. aeruginosa chromosome affected major virulence-associated phenotypes and led to increased resistance to the antibiotics used to combat the infection. Comparative genome, proteome and transcriptome analyses revealed that this ISL3-family insertion sequence disrupted the genes for flagellar components, type IV pili, O-specific antigens, translesion polymerase and enzymes producing hydrogen cyanide. Seven-fold more insertions were detected in the later isolate, CLJ3, than in CLJ1, some of which modified strain susceptibility to antibiotics by disrupting the genes for the outer-membrane porin OprD and the regulator of beta-lactamase expression AmpD. In the Galleria mellonella larvae model, the two strains displayed different levels of virulence, with CLJ1 being highly pathogenic. This study revealed insertion sequences to be major players in enhancing the pathogenic potential of a P. aeruginosa taxonomic outlier by modulating both its virulence and its resistance to antimicrobials, and explains how this bacterium adapts from the environment to a human host.
PXD011340	30948621	The mRNA-bound Proteome of Leishmania mexicana: Novel Genetic Insight into an Ancient Parasite. 	The mRNA-bound proteome of Leishmania mexicana is stage-regulated with distinct transcript target pools	mRBPome, mRBPs, mRNA binding proteins, mRNA-bound proteome, parasite lifecycle	Leishmania parasite infections, termed the leishmaniases, cause significant global infectious disease burden. The lifecycle of the parasite embodies three main stages that require precise coordination of gene regulation to survive environmental shifts between sandfly and mammalian hosts. Constitutive transcription in kinetoplastid parasites means that gene regulation is overwhelmingly reliant on post-transcriptional mechanisms, yet strikingly few Leishmania trans-regulators are known. Using optimized crosslinking and deep, quantified mass spectrometry, we present a comprehensive analysis of 1400 mRNA binding proteins (mRBPs) and whole cell proteomes from the three main Leishmania lifecycle stages. Supporting the validity, although the crosslinked RBPome is magnitudes more enriched, the protein identities of the crosslinked and non-crosslinked RBPomes were nearly identical. Moreover, multiple candidate RBPs were endogenously tagged and found to associate with discrete mRNA target pools in a stage-specific manner. Results indicate that in L. mexicana parasites, mRNA levels are not a strong predictor of the whole cell expression or RNA binding potential of encoded proteins. Evidence includes a low correlation between transcript and corresponding protein expression and stage-specific variation in protein expression versus RNA binding potential. Unsurprisingly, RNA binding protein enrichment correlates strongly with relative replication efficiency of the specific lifecycle stage. Our study is the first to quantitatively define and compare the mRBPome of multiple stages in kinetoplastid parasites. It provides novel, in-depth insight into the trans-regulatory mRNA:Protein (mRNP) complexes that drive Leishmania parasite lifecycle progression.
PXD013389	30948631	Biosynthesis and secretion of the microbial sulfated peptide RaxX and binding to the rice XA21 immune receptor. 	Biosynthesis and secretion of the microbial sulfated peptide RaxX and binding to the rice XA21 immune receptor	RaxX, RiPPs, Tyrosine sulfation, X. oryzae, XA21 immune receptor	The rice immune receptor XA21 is activated by the sulfated microbial peptide required for activation of XA21-mediated immunity X (RaxX) produced by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Mutational studies and targeted proteomics revealed that the RaxX precursor peptide (proRaxX) is processed and secreted by the protease/transporter RaxB, the function of which can be partially fulfilled by a noncognate peptidase-containing transporter component B (PctB). proRaxX is cleaved at a Gly-Gly motif, yielding a mature peptide that retains the necessary elements for RaxX function as an immunogen and host peptide hormone mimic. These results indicate that RaxX is a prokaryotic member of a previously unclassified and understudied group of eukaryotic tyrosine sulfated ribosomally synthesized, posttranslationally modified peptides (RiPPs). We further demonstrate that sulfated RaxX directly binds XA21 with high affinity. This work reveals a complete, previously uncharacterized biological process: bacterial RiPP biosynthesis, secretion, binding to a eukaryotic receptor, and triggering of a robust host immune response.
PXD012800	30948724	Miniaturised interaction proteomics on a microfluidic platform with ultra-low input requirements. 	On-chip AP-MS: Interaction proteomics on a microfluidics platform	AP-MS, interaction proteomics, low input	Essentially all cellular processes are orchestrated by protein-protein interactions (PPIs). In recent years, affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry (AP-MS) has been the preferred method to identify cellular PPIs. Here we present a microfluidic-based AP-MS workflow, called on-chip AP-MS, to identify PPIs using minute amounts of input material. By using this automated platform we purify the human Cohesin, CCC and Mediator complexes from as little as 4 micrograms of input lysate, representing a 50-100-fold downscaling compared to regular microcentrifuge tube-based protocols. We show that our platform can be used to affinity purify tagged baits as well as native cellular proteins and their interaction partners. As such, our method holds great promise for future biological and clinical AP-MS applications in which sample amounts are limited.
PXD010624	30951247	Heterotrophic carbon metabolism and energy acquisition in Candidatus Thioglobus singularis strain PS1, a member of the SUP05 clade of marine Gammaproteobacteria. 	Heterotrophic carbon metabolism and energy acquisition in Candidatus Thioglobus singularis strain PS1, a member of the SUP05 clade of marine Gammaproteobacteria	Arctic96BD-19, Candidatus Thioglobus singularis strain PS1, Marine Gammaproteobacteria, SUP05	A hallmark of the SUP05 clade of marine Gammaproteobacteria is the ability to use energy obtained from reduced inorganic sulfur to fuel autotrophic fixation of carbon using RuBisCo. However, some SUP05 also have the genetic potential for heterotrophic growth, raising questions about the roles of SUP05 in the marine carbon cycle. We used genomic reconstructions, physiological growth experiments and proteomics to characterize central carbon and energy metabolism in Candidatus Thioglobus singularis strain PS1, a representative from the SUP05 clade that has the genetic potential for autotrophy and heterotrophy. Here, we show that the addition of individual organic compounds and 0.2 mum filtered diatom lysate significantly enhanced the growth of this bacterium. This positive growth response to organic substrates, combined with expression of a complete TCA cycle, heterotrophic pathways for carbon assimilation, and methylotrophic pathways for energy conversion demonstrate strain PS1's capacity for heterotrophic growth. Further, our inability to verify the expression of RuBisCO suggests that carbon fixation was not critical for growth. These results highlight the metabolic diversity of the SUP05 clade that harbours both primary producers and consumers of organic carbon in the oceans and expand our understanding of specific pathways of organic matter oxidation by the heterotrophic SUP05.
PXD007562	30951861	The effects of IFITM1 and IFITM3 gene deletion on IFNgamma stimulated protein synthesis. 	Genetic ablation of ifitm1 and ifitm3 attenuates IFN- mediated induction of ISG15 and MHC class I molecules	IFN, SILAC, SWATH, cancer, cell lines	Interferon-induced transmembrane proteins IFITM1 and IFITM3 (IFITM1/3) play a role in both RNA viral restriction and in human cancer progression. Using immunohistochemical staining of FFPE tissue, we identified subgroups of cervical cancer patients where IFITM1/3 protein expression is inversely related to metastasis. Guide RNA-CAS9 methods were used to develop an isogenic IFITM1/IFITM3 double null cervical cancer model in order to define dominant pathways triggered by presence or absence of IFITM1/3 signalling. A pulse SILAC methodology identified IRF1, HLA-B, and ISG15 as the most dominating IFNgamma inducible proteins whose synthesis was attenuated in the IFITM1/IFITM3 double-null cells. Conversely, SWATH-IP mass spectrometry of ectopically expressed SBP-tagged IFITM1 identified ISG15 and HLA-B as dominant co-associated proteins. ISG15ylation was attenuated in IFNgamma treated IFITM1/IFITM3 double-null cells. Proximity ligation assays indicated that HLA-B can interact with IFITM1/3 proteins in parental SiHa cells. Cell surface expression of HLA-B was attenuated in IFNgamma treated IFITM1/IFITM3 double-null cells. SWATH-MS proteomic screens in cells treated with IFITM1-targeted siRNA cells resulted in the attenuation of an interferon regulated protein subpopulation including MHC Class I molecules as well as IFITM3, STAT1, B2M, and ISG15. These data have implications for the function of IFITM1/3 in mediating IFNgamma stimulated protein synthesis including ISG15ylation and MHC Class I production in cancer cells. The data together suggest that pro-metastatic growth associated with IFITM1/3 negative cervical cancers relates to attenuated expression of MHC Class I molecules that would support tumor immune escape.
PXD010582	30952847	A fungal substrate mimicking molecule suppresses plant immunity via an inter-kingdom conserved motif. 	Maize AF F24 Shotgun Proteomics	Maize Proteomics F24 PLCPs Apoplastic Fluid	Ustilago maydis is a biotrophic fungus causing corn smut disease in maize. The secreted effector protein Pit2 is an inhibitor of papain-like cysteine proteases (PLCPs) essential for virulence. Pit2 inhibitory function relies on a conserved 14 amino acids motif (PID14). Here we show that synthetic PID14 peptides act more efficiently as PLCP inhibitors than the full-length Pit2 effector. Mass spectrometry shows processing of Pit2 by maize PLCPs, which releases an inhibitory core motif from the PID14 sequence. Mutational analysis demonstrates that two conserved residues are essential for Pit2 function. We propose that the Pit2 effector functions as a substrate mimicking molecule: Pit2 is a suitable substrate for apoplastic PLCPs and its processing releases the embedded inhibitor peptide, which in turn blocks PLCPs to modulate host immunity. Remarkably, the PID14 core motif is present in several plant associated fungi and bacteria, indicating the existence of a conserved microbial inhibitor of proteases (cMIP).
PXD012427	30956132	Altered Domain Structure of the Prion Protein Caused by Cu(2+) Binding and Functionally Relevant Mutations: Analysis by Cross-Linking, MS/MS, and NMR. 	Altered Domain Structure of the Prion Protein Caused by Cu2+ Binding and Functionally Relevant Mutations: Analysis by CrossLinking, MS/MS, and NMR	Prion, cross-linking, inter-domain protein interaction	The cellular isoform of the prion protein (PrP(C)) serves as precursor to the infectious isoform (PrP(Sc)), and as a cell-surface receptor, which binds misfolded protein oligomers as well as physiological ligands such as Cu(2+) ions. PrP(C) consists of two domains: a flexible N-terminal domain and a structured C-terminal domain. Both the physiological and pathological functions of PrP depend on intramolecular interactions between these two domains, but the specific amino acid residues involved have proven challenging to define. Here, we employ a combination of chemical cross-linking, mass spectrometry, NMR, molecular dynamics simulations, and functional assays to identify residue-level contacts between the N- and C-terminal domains of PrP(C). We also determine how these interdomain contacts are altered by binding of Cu(2+) ions and by functionally relevant mutations. Our results provide a structural basis for interpreting both the normal and toxic activities of PrP.
PXD012661	30957850	Proteomic and transcriptomic experiments reveal an essential role of RNA degradosome complexes in shaping the transcriptome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 	RNA-bound proteome of Mycobacterium bovis	RNA bound proteome, RNA degradosome, tuberculosis	The phenotypic adjustments of Mycobacterium tuberculosis are commonly inferred from the analysis of transcript abundance. While mechanisms of transcriptional regulation have been extensively analysed in mycobacteria, little is known about mechanisms that shape the transcriptome by regulating RNA decay rates. The aim of the present study is to identify the core components of the RNA degradosome of M. tuberculosis and to analyse their function in RNA metabolism. Using an approach involving cross-linking to 4-thiouridine-labelled RNA, we mapped the mycobacterial RNA-bound proteome and identified degradosome-related enzymes polynucleotide phosphorylase (PNPase), ATP-dependent RNA helicase (RhlE), ribonuclease E (RNase E) and ribonuclease J (RNase J) as major components. We then carried out affinity purification of eGFP-tagged recombinant constructs to identify protein-protein interactions. This identified further interactions with cold-shock proteins and novel KH-domain proteins. Engineering and transcriptional profiling of strains with a reduced level of expression of core degradosome ribonucleases provided evidence of important pleiotropic roles of the enzymes in mycobacterial RNA metabolism highlighting their potential vulnerability as drug targets.
PXD011853	30961929	Human dihydrofolate reductase is a substrate of protein kinase CK2alpha. 	Human dihydrofolate reductase is a substrate of protein kinase CK2alpha	: dihydrofolate reductase, CK2, phosphoproteomics, protein mutants, protein phosphorylation	Dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) is a prominent molecular target in antitumor, antibacterial, antiprotozoan, and immunosuppressive chemotherapies, and CK2 protein kinase is an ubiquitous enzyme involved in many processes, such as tRNA and rRNA synthesis, apoptosis, cell cycle or oncogenic transformation. We show for the first time that CK2alpha subunit strongly interacted with and phosphorylated DHFR in vitro. Using quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D) we determined DHFR-CK2alpha binding kinetic parameters (Kd below 0.5 muM, kon = 10.31 x 10(4) M(-1)s(-1) and koff = 1.40 x 10(-3)s(-1)) and calculated Gibbs free energy (-36.4 kJ/mol). In order to identify phosphorylation site(s) we used site-directed mutagenesis to obtain several DHFR mutants with predicted CK2-phosphorylable serine or threonine residues substituted with alanines. All enzyme forms were subjected to CK2alpha subunit catalytic activity and the results pointed to serine 168 as a phosphorylation site. Mass spectrometry analyses confirmed the presence of phosphoserine 168 and revealed additionally the presence of phosphoserine 145, although the latter phosphorylation was on a very low level.
PXD012680	30962207	FET family fusion oncoproteins target the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex. 	Identification of FET-oncoprotein-interacting proteins by immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry analysis in sarcoma cell lines	FT ICR, LC-MS, Orbitrap, Sarcoma, immunoprecipitation	Members of the human FET family of RNA-binding proteins, comprising FUS, EWSR1, and TAF15, are ubiquitously expressed and engage at several levels of gene regulation. Many sarcomas and leukemias are characterized by the expression of fusion oncogenes with FET genes as 5' partners and alternative transcription factor-coding genes as 3' partners. Here, we report that the N terminus of normal FET proteins and their oncogenic fusion counterparts interact with the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex. In contrast to normal FET proteins, increased fractions of FET oncoproteins bind SWI/SNF, indicating a deregulated and enhanced interaction in cancer. Forced expression of FET oncogenes caused changes of global H3K27 trimethylation levels, accompanied by altered gene expression patterns suggesting a shift in the antagonistic balance between SWI/SNF and repressive polycomb group complexes. Thus, deregulation of SWI/SNF activity could provide a unifying pathogenic mechanism for the large group of tumors caused by FET fusion oncoproteins. These results may help to develop common strategies for therapy.
PXD010545	30962257	Unraveling Hidden Components of the Chloroplast Envelope Proteome: Opportunities and Limits of Better MS Sensitivity. 	Unravelling hidden components of the chloroplast envelope proteome	Chloroplast, Envelope	The chloroplast is a major plant cell organelle that fulfills essential metabolic and biosynthetic functions. Located at the interface between the chloroplast and other cell compartments, the chloroplast envelope system is a strategic barrier controlling the exchange of ions, metabolites and proteins, thus regulating essential metabolic functions (synthesis of hormones precursors, amino acids, pigments, sugars, vitamins, lipids, nucleotides etc.) of the plant cell. However, unraveling the contents of the chloroplast envelope proteome remains a difficult challenge; many proteins constituting this functional double membrane system remain to be identified. Indeed, the envelope contains only 1% of the chloroplast proteins (i.e. 0.4% of the whole cell proteome). In other words, most envelope proteins are so rare at the cell, chloroplast, or even envelope level, that they remained undetectable using targeted MS studies. Cross-contamination of chloroplast subcompartments by each other and by other cell compartments during cell fractionation, impedes accurate localization of many envelope proteins. The aim of the present study was to take advantage of technologically improved MS sensitivity to better define the proteome of the chloroplast envelope (differentiate genuine envelope proteins from contaminants). This MS-based analysis relied on an enrichment factor that was calculated for each protein identified in purified envelope fractions as compared with the value obtained for the same protein in crude cell extracts. Using this approach, a total of 1269 proteins were detected in purified envelope fractions, of which, 462 could be assigned an envelope localization by combining MS-based spectral count analyses with manual annotation using data from the literature and prediction tools. Many of such proteins being previously unknown envelope components, these data constitute a new resource of significant value to the broader plant science community aiming to define principles and molecular mechanisms controlling fundamental aspects of plastid biogenesis and functions.
PXD011071	30962360	Defining the RNA interactome by total RNA-associated protein purification. 	Defining the RNA Interactome by Total RNA-Associated Protein Purification	TRAPP RNA-Protein UV	The RNA binding proteome (RBPome) was previously investigated using UV crosslinking and purification of poly(A)-associated proteins. However, most cellular transcripts are not polyadenylated. We therefore developed total RNA-associated protein purification (TRAPP) based on 254 nm UV crosslinking and purification of all RNA-protein complexes using silica beads. In a variant approach (PAR-TRAPP), RNAs were labelled with 4-thiouracil prior to 350 nm crosslinking. PAR-TRAPP in yeast identified hundreds of RNA binding proteins, strongly enriched for canonical RBPs. In comparison, TRAPP identified many more proteins not expected to bind RNA, and this correlated strongly with protein abundance. Comparing TRAPP in yeast and E. coli showed apparent conservation of RNA binding by metabolic enzymes. Illustrating the value of total RBP purification, we discovered that the glycolytic enzyme enolase interacts with tRNAs. Exploiting PAR-TRAPP to determine the effects of brief exposure to weak acid stress revealed specific changes in late 60S ribosome biogenesis. Furthermore, we identified the precise sites of crosslinking for hundreds of RNA-peptide conjugates, using iTRAPP, providing insights into potential regulation. We conclude that TRAPP is a widely applicable tool for RBPome characterization.
PXD009856	30962361	Chemosynthetic symbiont with a drastically reduced genome serves as primary energy storage in the marine flatworm Paracatenula. 	Proteomics of Ca. Riegeria standrea - the chemosynthetic symbionts of the marine flatworm Paracatenula from the Bay of SantAndrea (Elba, Italy)	1D-LC, Metaproteomics, alphaproteobacteria, chemosynthetic symbiosis, comparative genomics, convergent evolution, ecophysiology, metaproteome, metaproteomics, thiotrophic endosymbionts, vertical transmission	Hosts of chemoautotrophic bacteria typically have much higher biomass than their symbionts and consume symbiont cells for nutrition. In contrast to this, chemoautotrophic Candidatus Riegeria symbionts in mouthless Paracatenula flatworms comprise up to half of the biomass of the consortium. Each species of Paracatenula harbors a specific Ca Riegeria, and the endosymbionts have been vertically transmitted for at least 500 million years. Such prolonged strict vertical transmission leads to streamlining of symbiont genomes, and the retained physiological capacities reveal the functions the symbionts provide to their hosts. Here, we studied a species of Paracatenula from Sant'Andrea, Elba, Italy, using genomics, gene expression, imaging analyses, as well as targeted and untargeted MS. We show that its symbiont, Ca R. santandreae has a drastically smaller genome (1.34 Mb) than the symbiont's free-living relatives (4.29-4.97 Mb) but retains a versatile and energy-efficient metabolism. It encodes and expresses a complete intermediary carbon metabolism and enhanced carbon fixation through anaplerosis and accumulates massive intracellular inclusions such as sulfur, polyhydroxyalkanoates, and carbohydrates. Compared with symbiotic and free-living chemoautotrophs, Ca R. santandreae's versatility in energy storage is unparalleled in chemoautotrophs with such compact genomes. Transmission EM as well as host and symbiont expression data suggest that Ca R. santandreae largely provisions its host via outer-membrane vesicle secretion. With its high share of biomass in the symbiosis and large standing stocks of carbon and energy reserves, it has a unique role for bacterial symbionts-serving as the primary energy storage for its animal host.
PXD013325	30962391	An RNA Chaperone-Like Protein Plays Critical Roles in Chloroplast mRNA Stability and Translation in Arabidopsis and Maize. 	Mass Spectrometry analysis of a Arabidopsis protein	Chloroplast, MS	A key characteristic of chloroplast gene expression is the predominance of posttranscriptional control via numerous nucleus-encoded RNA binding factors. Here, we explored the essential roles of the S1-domain-containing protein photosynthetic electron transfer B (petB)/ petD Stabilizing Factor (BSF) in the stabilization and translation of chloroplast mRNAs. BSF binds to the intergenic region of petB-petD, thereby stabilizing 3' processed petB transcripts and stimulating petD translation. BSF also binds to the 5' untranslated region of petA and activates its translation. BSF displayed nucleic-acid-melting activity in vitro, and its absence induces structural changes to target RNAs in vivo, suggesting that BSF functions as an RNA chaperone to remodel RNA structure. BSF physically interacts with the pentatricopeptide repeat protein Chloroplast RNA Processing 1 (AtCRP1) and the ribosomal release factor-like protein Peptide chain Release Factor 3 (PrfB3), whose established RNA ligands overlap with those of BSF. In addition, PrfB3 stimulated the RNA binding ability of BSF in vitro. We propose that BSF and PrfB3 cooperatively reduce the formation of secondary RNA structures within target mRNAs and facilitate AtCRP1 binding. The translation activation function of BSF for petD is conserved in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and maize (Zea mays), but that for petA operates specifically in Arabidopsis. Our study sheds light on the mechanisms by which RNA binding proteins cooperatively regulate mRNA stability and translation in chloroplasts.
PXD012564	30962446	Specific inhibition of splicing factor activity by decoy RNA oligonucleotides. 	Specific inhibition of splicing factor activity by decoy RNA oligonucleotides	Alternative Splicing, Cancer, Decoy oligonucleotides, PTBP1, RBFOX2, SRSF1, Splicing factors, lc-ms	Alternative splicing, a fundamental step in gene expression, is deregulated in many diseases. Splicing factors (SFs), which regulate this process, are up- or down regulated or mutated in several diseases including cancer. To date, there are no inhibitors that directly inhibit the activity of SFs. We designed decoy oligonucleotides, composed of several repeats of a RNA motif, which is recognized by a single SF. Here we show that decoy oligonucleotides targeting splicing factors RBFOX1/2, SRSF1 and PTBP1, can specifically bind to their respective SFs and inhibit their splicing and biological activities both in vitro and in vivo. These decoy oligonucleotides present an approach to specifically downregulate SF activity in conditions where SFs are either up-regulated or hyperactive.
PXD010180	30964684	Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy to Identify Metabolite Biomarkers of Nonresponsiveness to Targeted Therapy in Glioblastoma Tumor Stem Cells. 	Glioblastoma cells response to a cancer drug	Glioblastoma, Q-Exactive, nano LC-MS	Glioblastoma is the most common and malignant brain tumor, and current therapies confer only modest survival benefits. A major obstacle is our ability to monitor treatment effect on tumors. Current imaging modalities are ambiguous, and repeated biopsies are not encouraged. To scout for markers of treatment response, we used NMR spectroscopy to study the effects of a survivin inhibitor on the metabolome of primary glioblastoma cancer stem cells. Applying high resolution NMR spectroscopy ((1)H resonance frequency: 800.03 MHz) to just 3 million cells per sample, we achieved sensitive and high resolving determinations of, e.g., amino acids, nucleosides, and constituents of the citric acid cycle. For control samples that were cultured, prepared, and measured at varying dates, peak area relative standard deviations were 15-20%. Analyses of unfractionated lysates were performed for straightforward compound identification with COLMAR and HMDB databases. Principal component analysis revealed that citrate levels were clearly upregulated in nonresponsive cells, while lactate levels substantially decreased following treatment for both responsive and nonresponsive cells. Hence, lactate and citrate may be potential markers of successful drug uptake and poor response to survivin inhibitors, respectively. Our metabolomics approach provided alternative biomarker candidates compared to spectrometry-based proteomics, underlining benefits of complementary methodologies. These initial findings make a foundation for exploring in vivo MR spectroscopy (MRS) of brain tumors, as citrate and lactate are MRS-visible. In sum, NMR metabolomics is a tool for addressing glioblastoma.
PXD013048	30966751	Integrated Tear Proteome and Metabolome Reveal Panels of Inflammatory-Related Molecules via Key Regulatory Pathways in Dry Eye Syndrome. 	cassava Proteomic  in response to mite  infestation	cassava	Dry eye syndrome (DES) is a growing public health concern with a high global prevalence; however, the fundamental processes involved in its pathogenic mechanisms remain poorly understood. In the present study, we applied nanoscale liquid chromatography and quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (nanoLC/Q-TOF-MS/MS) and ultraperformance LC/Q-TOF-MS/MS technologies on tear samples obtained from 18 dry eye patients and 19 healthy controls for integrated proteomic and metabolomic analyses. Overall, 1031 tear proteins were detected, while 190 proteins were determined to be significantly expressed in dry eye patients. Further functional analysis suggested that various biological processes were highly expressed and involved in the pathogenesis of DES, especially immune and inflammatory processes. In total, 156 named metabolites were identified, among which 34 were found to be significantly changed in dry eye patients. The results highlighted the key elements, especially inflammatory-related proteins and metabolites that played important roles in the development of DES. Further, the regulatory roles of primary pathways, including complement and coagulation cascades, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and amino acid metabolism, were also identified as processes involved in DES. Collectively, our work not only provided insight into the potential biomarkers of DES for diagnostic and prognostic purposes but extended our knowledge of the physiopathology of this syndrome.
PXD012703	30967486	TMT Labeling for the Masses: A Robust and Cost-efficient, In-solution Labeling Approach. 	TMT labeling for the masses: A robust and cost-efficient, in-solution labeling strategy	NHS ester chemistry, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Tandem Mass Tags, benchmarking, immunopeptidomics, labeling efficiency, machine learning, stable isotope labeling	Isobaric stable isotope labeling using, for example, tandem mass tags (TMTs) is increasingly being applied for large-scale proteomic studies. Experiments focusing on proteoform analysis in drug time course or perturbation studies or in large patient cohorts greatly benefit from the reproducible quantification of single peptides across samples. However, such studies often require labeling of hundreds of micrograms of peptides such that the cost for labeling reagents represents a major contribution to the overall cost of an experiment. Here, we describe and evaluate a robust and cost-effective protocol for TMT labeling that reduces the quantity of required labeling reagent by a factor of eight and achieves complete labeling. Under- and overlabeling of peptides derived from complex digests of tissues and cell lines were systematically evaluated using peptide quantities of between 12.5 and 800 mug and TMT-to-peptide ratios (wt/wt) ranging from 8:1 to 1:2 at different TMT and peptide concentrations. When reaction volumes were reduced to maintain TMT and peptide concentrations of at least 10 mm and 2 g/l, respectively, TMT-to-peptide ratios as low as 1:1 (wt/wt) resulted in labeling efficiencies of > 99% and excellent intra- and interlaboratory reproducibility. The utility of the optimized protocol was further demonstrated in a deep-scale proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of patient-derived xenograft tumor tissue benchmarked against the labeling procedure recommended by the TMT vendor. Finally, we discuss the impact of labeling reaction parameters for N-hydroxysuccinimide ester-based chemistry and provide guidance on adopting efficient labeling protocols for different peptide quantities.
PXD009311	30967555	Phospho serine and threonine analysis of normal and mutated granulocyte colony stimulating factor receptors. 	Phosphoproteomics analysis of normal and mutated granulocyte colony stimulating factor receptors	G-CSFR signaling, Phosphoproteomics, SILAC	Granulocyte colony stimulating factor receptor (G-CSFR) plays an important role in the production of neutrophil granulocytes. Mutated G-CSFRs have been directly associated with two distinct malignant phenotypes in patients, e.g. acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL). However, the signaling mechanism of the mutated G-CSFRs is not well understood. Here, we present a comprehensive SILAC-based quantitative phosphoserine and phosphothreonine dataset of the normal and mutated G-CSFRs signaling using the BaF3 cell-line-based in vitro model system. High pH reversed phase concatenation and Titanium Dioxide Spin Tip column were utilized to increase the dynamic range and detection of the phosphoproteome of G-CSFRs. The dataset was further analyzed using several computational tools to validate the quality of the dataset. Overall, this dataset is the first global phosphoproteomics analysis of both normal and disease-associated-mutant G-CSFRs. We anticipate that this dataset will have a strong potential to decipher the phospho-signaling differences between the normal and malignant G-CSFR biology with therapeutic implications. The phosphoproteomic dataset is available via the PRIDE partner repository.
PXD012430	30967557	KIBRA controls exosome secretion via inhibiting the proteasomal degradation of Rab27a. 	Mouse brain LC-MS -  KIBRA controls exosome secretion via inhibiting the proteasomal degradation of Rab27a	Brain, KIBRA, LC-MS	Exosomes are nanosized membrane vesicles released from cells after fusion of multivesicular bodies (MVBs) with the plasma membrane (PM) and play important roles in intercellular communication and numerous biological processes. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating exosome secretion remain poorly understood. Here we identify KIBRA as an adaptor-like protein that stabilizes Rab27a, which in turn controls exosome secretion both in vitro and in vivo. Knockdown or overexpression of KIBRA in neuronal and podocyte cell lines leads to a decrease or increase of exosome secretion, respectively, and KIBRA depletion increases MVB size and number. Comparing protein profiles between KIBRA knockout and wild-type mouse brain showed significantly decreased Rab27a, a small GTPase that regulates MVB-PM docking. Rab27a is stabilized by interacting with KIBRA, which prevents ubiquitination and degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. In conclusion, we show that KIBRA controls exosome secretion via inhibiting the proteasomal degradation of Rab27a.
PXD010476	30969469	The Natural Product Elegaphenone Potentiates Antibiotic Effects against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	The natural product elegaphenone potentiates antibiotic effects against Pseudomonas aeruginosa	antimicrobials, antivirulence, chemical proteomics, natural products	Natural products represent a rich source of antibiotics that address versatile cellular targets. The deconvolution of their targets via chemical proteomics is often challenged by the introduction of large photocrosslinkers. Here we applied elegaphenone, a largely uncharacterized natural product antibiotic bearing a native benzophenone core scaffold, for affinity-based protein profiling (AfBPP) in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. This study utilizes the alkynylated natural product scaffold as a probe to uncover intriguing biological interactions with the transcriptional regulator AlgP. Furthermore, proteome profiling of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa AlgP transposon mutant provided unique insights into the mode of action. Elegaphenone enhanced the elimination of intracellular P. aeruginosa in macrophages exposed to sub-inhibitory concentrations of the fluoroquinolone antibiotic norfloxacin.
PXD008790	30969995	Comparative analysis of homologous aminopeptidase PepN from pathogenic and non-pathogenic mycobacteria reveals divergent traits. 	A conserved aminopeptidase PepN, exhibits divergent traits in pathogenic and non- pathogenic mycobacteria	aminopeptidase PepN, mycobacteria	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) secretes proteases and peptidases to subjugate its host. Out of its sixty plus proteases, atleast three are reported to reach host macrophages. In this study, we show that Mtb also delivers a lysyl alanine aminopeptidase, PepN (Rv2467) into host macrophage cytosol. Our comparative in silico analysis shows PepNMtb highly conserved across all pathogenic mycobacteria. Non-pathogenic mycobacteria including M. smegmatis (Msm) also encode pepN. PepN protein levels in both Mtb (pathogenic) and Msm (non-pathogenic) remain uniform across all in vitro growth phases. Despite such tight maintenance of PepNs' steady state levels, upon supplementation, Mtb alone allows accumulation of any excessive PepN. In contrast, Msm does not. It not only proteolyzes, but also secretes out the excessive PepN, be it native or foreign. Interestingly, while PepNMtb is required for modulating virulence in vivo, PepNMsm is essential for Msm growth in vitro. Despite such essentiality difference, both PepNMtb and PepNMsm harbor almost identical N-terminal M1-type peptidase domains that significantly align in their amino acid sequences and overlap in their secondary structures. Their C-terminal ERAP1_C-like domains however align much more moderately. Our in vitro macrophage-based infection experiments with MtbDeltapepN-expressing pepNMsm reveals PepNMsm also retaining the ability to reach host cytosol. Lastly, but notably, we determined the PepNMtb and PepNMsm interactomes and found them to barely coincide. While PepNMtb chiefly interacts with Mtb's secreted proteins, PepNMsm primarily coimmunoprecipitates with Msm's housekeeping proteins. Thus, despite high sequence homology and several common properties, our comparative analytical study reveals host-centric traits of pathogenic and bacterial-centric traits of non-pathogenic PepNs.
PXD012930	30970003	Identification of ChIP-seq and RIME grade antibodies for Estrogen Receptor alpha. 	Identification of ChIP-seq and RIME grade antibodies for Estrogen Receptor alpha	ChIP-seq, RIME, estrogen receptor alpha	Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha) plays a major role in most breast cancers, and it is the target of endocrine therapies used in the clinic as standard of care for women with breast cancer expressing this receptor. The two methods ChIP-seq (chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with deep sequencing) and RIME (Rapid Immunoprecipitation of Endogenous Proteins) have greatly improved our understanding of ERalpha function during breast cancer progression and in response to anti-estrogens. A critical component of both ChIP-seq and RIME protocols is the antibody that is used against the bait protein. To date, most of the ChIP-seq and RIME experiments for the study of ERalpha have been performed using the sc-543 antibody from Santa Cruz Biotechnology. However, this antibody has been discontinued, thereby severely impacting the study of ERalpha in normal physiology as well as diseases such as breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Here, we compare the sc-543 antibody with other commercially available antibodies, and we show that 06-935 (EMD Millipore) and ab3575 (Abcam) antibodies can successfully replace the sc-543 antibody for ChIP-seq and RIME experiments.
PXD010995	30970176	Scavenging organic nitrogen and remodelling lipid metabolism are key survival strategies adopted by the endophytic fungi, Serendipita vermifera and Serendipita bescii to alleviate nitrogen and phosphorous starvation in vitro. 	Protein-level regulation of nitrogen and phosphorous metabolism in two endomycorrhizal fungi, Serendipita vermifera and Serendipita bescii	Mycorrhiza, Nitrogen, Phosphate, Protoemics, Serendipita bescii, Serendipita vermifera	Serendipitaceae represents a diverse fungal group in the Basidiomycota that includes endophytes and lineages that repeatedly evolved ericoid, orchid and ectomycorrhizal lifestyle. Plants rely upon both nitrogen and phosphorous, for essential growth processes, and are often provided by mycorrhizal fungi. In this study, we investigated the cellular proteome of Serendipita vermifera MAFF305830 and closely related Serendipita vermifera subsp. bescii NFPB0129 grown in vitro under (N) ammonium and (P) phosphate starvation conditions. Mycelial growth pattern was documented under these conditions to correlate growth-specific responses to nutrient starvation. We found that N-starvation accelerated hyphal radial growth, whereas P-starvation accelerated hyphal branching. Additionally, P-starvation triggers an integrated starvation response leading to remodelling of lipid metabolism. Higher abundance of an ammonium transporter known to serve as both an ammonium sensor and stimulator of hyphal growth was detected under N-starvation. Additionally, N-starvation led to strong up-regulation of nitrate, amino acid, peptide, and urea transporters, along with several proteins predicted to have peptidase activity. Taken together, our finding suggests S. bescii and S. vermifera have the metabolic capacity for nitrogen assimilation from organic forms of N compounds. We hypothesize that the nitrogen metabolite repression is a key regulator of such organic N assimilation.
PXD011546	30971685	Neutrophil extracellular traps in the central nervous system hinder bacterial clearance during pneumococcal meningitis. 	Neutrophil extracellular traps in the central nervous system: a novel therapeutic target in pneumococcal meningitis.	NETs Neutrophil Pneumococci Meningitis DDA SWATH	Neutrophils are crucial mediators of host defense that are recruited to the central nervous system (CNS) in large numbers during acute bacterial meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Neutrophils release neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) during infections to trap and kill bacteria. Intact NETs are fibrous structures composed of decondensed DNA and neutrophil-derived antimicrobial proteins. Here we show NETs in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with pneumococcal meningitis, and their absence in other forms of meningitis with neutrophil influx into the CSF caused by viruses, Borrelia and subarachnoid hemorrhage. In a rat model of meningitis, a clinical strain of pneumococci induced NET formation in the CSF. Disrupting NETs using DNase I significantly reduces bacterial load, demonstrating that NETs contribute to pneumococcal meningitis pathogenesis in vivo. We conclude that NETs in the CNS reduce bacterial clearance and degrading NETs using DNase I may have significant therapeutic implications.
PXD010214	30971704	Female novelty and male status dynamically modulate ejaculate expenditure and seminal fluid proteome over successive matings in red junglefowl. 	Dynamic variation in ejaculate expenditure and seminal fluid proteome over a mating sequence: the signature of female novelty and male social status in red junglefowl	Coolidge asdf, Gallus, red jungle fowl, seminal fluid	Theory predicts that males will strategically invest in ejaculates according to the value of mating opportunities. While strategic sperm allocation has been studied extensively, little is known about concomitant changes in seminal fluid (SF) and its molecular composition, despite increasing evidence that SF proteins (SFPs) are fundamental in fertility and sperm competition. Here, we show that in male red junglefowl, Gallus gallus, along with changes in sperm numbers and SF investment, SF composition changed dynamically over successive matings with a first female, immediately followed by mating with a second, sexually novel female. The SF proteome exhibited a pattern of both protein depletion and enrichment over successive matings, including progressive increases in immunity and plasma proteins. Ejaculates allocated to the second female had distinct proteomic profiles, where depletion of many SFPs was compensated by increased investment in others. This response was partly modulated by male social status: when mating with the second, novel female, subdominants (but not dominants) preferentially invested in SFPs associated with sperm composition, which may reflect status-specific differences in mating rates, sperm maturation and sperm competition. Global proteomic SF analysis thus reveals that successive matings trigger rapid, dynamic SFP changes driven by a combination of depletion and strategic allocation.
PXD003784	30971775	ECT2 associated to PRICKLE1 are poor-prognosis markers in triple-negative breast cancer. 	PRICKLE1                      .	MINK1, PRICKLE1, RICTOR	BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC) are poor-prognosis tumours candidate to chemotherapy as only systemic treatment. We previously found that PRICKLE1, a prometastatic protein involved in planar cell polarity, is upregulated in TNBC. We investigated the protein complex associated with PRICKLE1 in TNBC to identify proteins possibly involved in metastatic dissemination, which might provide new prognostic and/or therapeutic targets. METHODS: We used a proteomic approach to identify protein complexes associated with PRICKLE1. The mRNA expression levels of the corresponding genes were assessed in 8982 patients with invasive primary breast cancer. We then characterised the molecular interaction between PRICKLE1 and the guanine nucleotide exchange factor ECT2. Finally, experiments in Xenopus were carried out to determine their evolutionarily conserved interaction. RESULTS: Among the PRICKLE1 proteins network, we identified several small G-protein regulators. Combined analysis of the expression of PRICKLE1 and small G-protein regulators had a strong prognostic value in TNBC. Notably, the combined expression of ECT2 and PRICKLE1 provided a worst prognosis than PRICKLE1 expression alone in TNBC. PRICKLE1 regulated ECT2 activity and this interaction was evolutionary conserved. CONCLUSIONS: This work supports the idea that an evolutionarily conserved signalling pathway required for embryogenesis and activated in cancer may represent a suitable therapeutic target.
PXD012535	30972393	USP7: combining tools towards selectivity. 	USP7: combing tools towards selectivity	DUBs, USP7, Ubiquitin	Active-site directed probes based on the ubiquitin scaffold have been successfully applied as tools to determine the levels of active deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs). Here, we show the development of a Ub-based reagent selective for the DUB USP7. This concept can be applied for the generation of other new selective reagents.
PXD008904	30972847	Comparative proteomics combined with analyses of transgenic plants reveal ZmREM1.3 mediates maize resistance to southern corn rust. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of susceptible and resistance maize lines to southern corn rust	Southern corn rust, maize	Southern corn rust (SCR), which is a destructive disease caused by Puccinia polysora Underw. (P. polysora), commonly occurs in warm-temperate and tropical regions. To identify candidate proteins related to SCR resistance and characterize the molecular mechanisms underlying the maize-P. polysora interaction, a comparative proteomic analysis of susceptible and resistant maize lines was performed. Statistical analyses revealed 1489 differentially abundant proteins in the resistant line, as well as 1035 differentially abundant proteins in the susceptible line. After the P. polysora infection, the abundance of one remorin protein (ZmREM1.3) increased in the resistant genotype, but decreased in the susceptible genotype. Plant-specific remorins are important for responses to microbial infections as well as plant signalling processes. In this study, transgenic maize plants overexpressing ZmREM1.3 exhibited enhanced resistance to the biotrophic P. polysora. In contrast, homozygous ZmREM1.3 UniformMu mutant plants were significantly more susceptible to P. polysora than wild-type plants. Additionally, the ZmREM1.3-overexpressing plants accumulated more salicylic acid (SA) and jasmonic acid (JA). Moreover, the expression levels of defence-related genes were higher in ZmREM1.3-overexpressing maize plants than in non-transgenic control plants in response to the P. polysora infection. Overall, our results provide evidence that ZmREM1.3 positively regulates maize defences against P. polysora likely via SA/JA-mediated defence signalling pathways. This study represents the first large-scale proteomic analysis of the molecular mechanisms underlying the maize-P. polysora interaction. This is also the first report confirming the remorin protein family affects plant resistance to SCR.
PXD012517	30975097	An improved protein extraction method applied to cotton leaves is compatible with 2-DE and LC-MS. 	An improved protein extraction method	cotton protein, extraction method	BACKGROUND: Two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) are widely used in plant proteomics research. However, these two techniques cannot be simultaneously satisfied by traditional protein extraction methods when investigate cotton leaf proteome. RESULTS: Here, we evaluated the efficiency of three different protein extraction methods for 2-DE and LC-MS/MS analyses of total proteins obtained from cotton leaves. The protein yield of the borax/PVPP/phenol (BPP) method (0.14%) was significantly lower than the yields of the trichloroacetic acid/acetone (TCA) precipitation method (1.42%) and optimized TCA combined with BPP (TCA-B) method (0.47%). The BPP method was failed to get a clear 2-DE electrophoretogram. Fifty pairs of protein spots were randomly selected from the 2-DE gels of TCA- and TCA-B-extracted proteins for identification by MALDI TOF/TOF, and the results of 42 pairs were consistent. High-throughput proteomic analysis showed that 6339, 9282 and 9697 unique proteins were identified from the total cotton leaf proteins extracted by the TCA, BPP and TCA-B methods, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis revealed that the proteins specifically identified by TCA method were primarily distributed in the plasma membrane, while BPP and TCA-B methods specific proteins distributed in the cytosol, indicating the sub-cellular preference of different protein extraction methods. Further, ATP-dependent zinc metalloprotease FTSH 8 could be observed in the 2-DE gels of TCA and TCA-B methods, and could only be detected in the LC-MS/MS results of the BPP and TCA-B methods, showing that TCA-B method might be the optimized choice for both 2-DE and LC-MS/MS. CONCLUSION: Our data provided an improved TCA-B method for protein extraction that is compatible with 2-DE and LC-MS/MS for cotton leaves and similar plant tissues which is rich in polysaccharides and polyphenols.
PXD008244	30975602	Spheroid glioblastoma culture conditions as antigen source for dendritic cell-based immunotherapy: spheroid proteins are survival-relevant targets but can impair immunogenic interferon gamma production. 	Adherent and Spheroid Glioblastoma Proteomics	Glioblastoma multiforme, antigen source, dendritic cell, gliomasphere, immunotherapy, quantitative proteomics	BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma is the most aggressive type of brain cancer. Dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy against glioblastoma depends on the effectiveness of loaded antigens. Sphere-inducing culture conditions are being studied by many as a potential antigen source. Here, we investigated two different in vitro conditions (spheroid culture versus adherent culture) in relation to DC immunotherapy: (1) We studied the specific spheroid-culture proteome and assessed the clinical importance of spheroid proteins. (2) We evaluated the immunogenicity of spheroid lysate - both compared to adherent conditions. METHODS: We used seven spheroid culture systems, three of them patient-derived. Stemness-related markers were studied in those three via immunofluorescence. Spheroid-specific protein expression was measured via quantitative proteomics. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) survival data was used to investigate the clinical impact of spheroid proteins. Immunogenicity of spheroid versus adherent cell lysate was explored in autologous ELISPOT systems (DCs and T cells from the three patients). RESULTS: (1) The differential proteome of spheroid versus adherent glioblastoma culture conditions could successfully be established. The top 10 identified spheroid-specific proteins were associated with significantly decreased overall survival (TCGA MIT/Harvard cohort; n = 350, P = 0.014). (2) In exploratory experiments, immunogenicity of spheroid lysate vis-a-vis interferon (IFN)gamma production was lower than that of adherent cell lysate (IFNgamma ELISPOT; P = 0.034). CONCLUSIONS: Spheroid culture proteins seem to represent survival-relevant targets, supporting the use of spheroid culture conditions as an antigen source for DC immunotherapy. However, immunogenicity enhancement should be considered for future research. Transferability of our findings in terms of clinical impact and regarding different spheroid-generation techniques needs further validation.
PXD010773	30975701	An Interaction Network of the Human SEPT9 Established by Quantitative Mass Spectrometry. 	An interaction network of the human SEPT9 established by quantitative mass spectrometry reveals an interplay with myosin motors	AP-MS, Myosin, Septin	Septins regulate the organization of the actin cytoskeleton, vesicle transport and fusion, chromosome alignment and segregation, and cytokinesis in mammalian cells. SEPT9 is part of the core septin hetero-octamer in human cells which is composed of SEPT2, SEPT6, SEPT7, and SEPT9. SEPT9 has been linked to a variety of intracellular functions as well as to diseases and diverse types of cancer. A targeted high-throughput approach to systematically identify the interaction partners of SEPT9 has not yet been performed. We applied a quantitative proteomics approach to establish an interactome of SEPT9 in human fibroblast cells. Among the newly identified interaction partners were members of the myosin family and LIM domain containing proteins. Fluorescence microscopy of SEPT9 and its interaction partners provides additional evidence that SEPT9 might participate in vesicle transport from and to the plasma membrane as well as in the attachment of actin stress fibers to cellular adhesions.
PXD012669	30975723	The histone chaperone CAF-1 cooperates with the DNA methyltransferases to maintain Cd4 silencing in cytotoxic T cells. 	The histone chaperone CAF-1 cooperates with the DNA methyltransferases to maintain Cd4 silencing in cytotoxic T cells	CAF-1, CD4, DNA Methylation, Heritability	The transcriptional repression of alternative lineage genes is critical for cell fate commitment. Mechanisms by which locus-specific gene silencing is initiated and heritably maintained during cell division are not clearly understood. To study the maintenance of silent gene states, we investigated how the Cd4 gene is stably repressed in CD8(+) T cells. Through CRISPR and shRNA screening, we identified the histone chaperone CAF-1 as a critical component for Cd4 repression. We found that the large subunit of CAF-1, Chaf1a, requires the N-terminal KER domain to associate with the histone deacetylases HDAC1/2 and the histone demethylase LSD1, enzymes that also participate in Cd4 silencing. When CAF-1 was lacking, Cd4 derepression was markedly enhanced in the absence of the de novo DNA methyltransferase Dnmt3a but not the maintenance DNA methyltransferase Dnmt1. In contrast to Dnmt1, Dnmt3a deficiency did not significantly alter levels of DNA methylation at the Cd4 locus. Instead, Dnmt3a deficiency sensitized CD8(+) T cells to Cd4 derepression mediated by compromised functions of histone-modifying factors, including the enzymes associated with CAF-1. Thus, we propose that the heritable silencing of the Cd4 gene in CD8(+) T cells exploits cooperative functions among the DNA methyltransferases, CAF-1, and histone-modifying enzymes.
PXD013153	30975751	A diecast mineralization process forms the tough mantis shrimp dactyl club. 	A Diecast Mineralization Process Forms the Tough Mantis Shrimp Dactyl Club	Mantis Shrimp, cuticle, molt	Biomineralization, the process by which mineralized tissues grow and harden via biogenic mineral deposition, is a relatively lengthy process in many mineral-producing organisms, resulting in challenges to study the growth and biomineralization of complex hard mineralized tissues. Arthropods are ideal model organisms to study biomineralization because they regularly molt their exoskeletons and grow new ones in a relatively fast timescale, providing opportunities to track mineralization of entire tissues. Here, we monitored the biomineralization of the mantis shrimp dactyl club-a model bioapatite-based mineralized structure with exceptional mechanical properties-immediately after ecdysis until the formation of the fully functional club and unveil an unusual development mechanism. A flexible membrane initially folded within the club cavity expands to form the new club's envelope. Mineralization proceeds inwards by mineral deposition from this membrane, which contains proteins regulating mineralization. Building a transcriptome of the club tissue and probing it with proteomic data, we identified and sequenced Club Mineralization Protein 1 (CMP-1), an abundant mildly phosphorylated protein from the flexible membrane suggested to be involved in calcium phosphate mineralization of the club, as indicated by in vitro studies using recombinant CMP-1. This work provides a comprehensive picture of the development of a complex hard tissue, from the secretion of its organic macromolecular template to the formation of the fully functional club.
PXD011823	30975858	Glycosidase and glycan polymorphism control hydrolytic release of immunogenic flagellin peptides. 	Identification of flagellin peptides in N. benthamiana apoplastic fluid	Pseudomonas, Pta6605, beta-Galactosidase, flagellin	Plants and animals recognize conserved flagellin fragments as a signature of bacterial invasion. These immunogenic elicitor peptides are embedded in the flagellin polymer and require hydrolytic release before they can activate cell surface receptors. Although much of flagellin signaling is understood, little is known about the release of immunogenic fragments. We discovered that plant-secreted beta-galactosidase 1 (BGAL1) of Nicotiana benthamiana promotes hydrolytic elicitor release and acts in immunity against pathogenic Pseudomonas syringae strains only when they carry a terminal modified viosamine (mVio) in the flagellin O-glycan. In counter defense, P. syringae pathovars evade host immunity by using BGAL1-resistant O-glycans or by producing a BGAL1 inhibitor. Polymorphic glycans on flagella are common to plant and animal pathogenic bacteria and represent an important determinant of host immunity to bacterial pathogens.
PXD009505	30975894	Use of extracellular vesicles from lymphatic drainage as surrogate markers of melanoma progression and BRAF V600E mutation. 	Use of lymph-circulating extracellular vesicles as surrogates of melanoma progression markers and BRAFV600E mutation.	BRAF, Exosomes, Lymphatic fluid, Melanoma, Metastasis	Liquid biopsies from cancer patients have the potential to improve diagnosis and prognosis. The assessment of surrogate markers of tumor progression in circulating extracellular vesicles could be a powerful non-invasive approach in this setting. We have characterized extracellular vesicles purified from the lymphatic drainage also known as exudative seroma (ES) of stage III melanoma patients obtained after lymphadenectomy. Proteomic analysis showed that seroma-derived exosomes are enriched in proteins resembling melanoma progression. In addition, we found that the BRAF(V600E) mutation can be detected in ES-derived extracellular vesicles and its detection correlated with patients at risk of relapse.
PXD011092	30975984	Microtubule end conversion mediated by motors and diffusing proteins with no intrinsic microtubule end-binding activity. 	Crosslinking Mapping of yeast Komagataella phaffii TFIID complex	K. phaffii TFIID CXMS BS3	Accurate chromosome segregation relies on microtubule end conversion, the ill-understood ability of kinetochores to transit from lateral microtubule attachment to durable association with dynamic microtubule plus-ends. The molecular requirements for this conversion and the underlying biophysical mechanisms are elusive. We reconstituted end conversion in vitro using two kinetochore components: the plus end-directed kinesin CENP-E and microtubule-binding Ndc80 complex, combined on the surface of a microbead. The primary role of CENP-E is to ensure close proximity between Ndc80 complexes and the microtubule plus-end, whereas Ndc80 complexes provide lasting microtubule association by diffusing on the microtubule wall near its tip. Together, these proteins mediate robust plus-end coupling during several rounds of microtubule dynamics, in the absence of any specialized tip-binding or regulatory proteins. Using a Brownian dynamics model, we show that end conversion is an emergent property of multimolecular ensembles of microtubule wall-binding proteins with finely tuned force-dependent motility characteristics.
PXD013750	30976000	Conformational dynamics of the human serotonin transporter during substrate and drug binding. 	Conformational dynamics of the human serotonin transporter during substrate and drug binding	HDX-MS, Membrane proteins, Protein-ligand interactions, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS)	The serotonin transporter (SERT), a member of the neurotransmitter:sodium symporter family, is responsible for termination of serotonergic signaling by re-uptake of serotonin (5-HT) into the presynaptic neuron. Its key role in synaptic transmission makes it a major drug target, e.g. for the treatment of depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress. Here, we apply hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry to probe the conformational dynamics of human SERT in the absence and presence of known substrates and targeted drugs. Our results reveal significant changes in dynamics in regions TM1, EL3, EL4, and TM12 upon binding co-transported ions (Na(+)/K(+)) and ligand-mediated changes in TM1, EL3 and EL4 upon binding 5-HT, the drugs S-citalopram, cocaine and ibogaine. Our results provide a comprehensive direct view of the conformational response of SERT upon binding both biologically relevant substrate/ions and ligands of pharmaceutical interest, thus advancing our understanding of the structure-function relationship in SERT.
PXD012217	30977292	Identification, Quantification, and System Analysis of Protein N-epsilon Lysine Methylation in Anucleate Blood Platelets. 	Mass spectrometry identification and systems analysis of cytosolic protein N- lysine methylation in anucleate blood platelets	isobaric labeling, lysine methylation, methylation, methyllysine, platelets, post-translational modifications, tandem mass tags	Protein posttranslational modifications critically regulate a range of physiological and disease processes. In addition to tyrosine, serine, and threonine phosphorylation, reversible N-epsilon acylation and alkylation of protein lysine residues also modulate diverse aspects of cellular function. Studies of lysine acyl and alkyl modifications have focused on nuclear proteins in epigenetic regulation; however, lysine modifications are also prevalent on cytosolic proteins to serve increasingly apparent, although less understood roles in cell regulation. Here, the methyl-lysine (meK) proteome of anucleate blood platelets is characterized. With high-resolution, multiplex MS methods, 190 mono-, di-, and tri-meK modifications are identified on 150 different platelet proteins-including 28 meK modifications quantified by tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling. In addition to identifying meK modifications on calmodulin (CaM), GRP78 (HSPA5, BiP), and EF1A1 that have been previously characterized in other cell types, more novel modifications are also uncovered on cofilin, drebin-like protein (DBNL, Hip-55), DOCK8, TRIM25, and numerous other cytoplasmic proteins. Together, the results and analyses support roles for lysine methylation in mediating cytoskeletal, translational, secretory, and other cellular processes. MS data for this study have been deposited into the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD012217.
PXD012828	30978004	Rapid and Reversible Knockdown of Endogenously Tagged Endosomal Proteins via an Optimized HaloPROTAC Degrader. 	Rapid and reversible knockdown of endogenously tagged endosomal proteins via an optimized HaloPROTAC degrader	Degradation, HaloPROTAC, VPS34	Inducing post-translational protein knockdown is an important approach to probe biology and validate drug targets. An efficient strategy to achieve this involves expression of a protein of interest fused to an exogenous tag, allowing tag-directed chemical degraders to mediate protein ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation. Here, we combine improved HaloPROTAC degrader probes with CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing technology to trigger rapid degradation of endogenous target proteins. Our optimized probe, HaloPROTAC-E, a chloroalkane conjugate of high-affinity VHL binder VH298, induced reversible degradation of two endosomally localized proteins, SGK3 and VPS34, with a DC50 of 3-10 nM. HaloPROTAC-E induced rapid (~50% degradation after 30 min) and complete ( Dmax of ~95% at 48 h) depletion of Halo-tagged SGK3, blocking downstream phosphorylation of the SGK3 substrate NDRG1. HaloPROTAC-E more potently induced greater steady state degradation of Halo tagged endogenous VPS34 than the previously reported HaloPROTAC3 compound. Quantitative global proteomics revealed that HaloPROTAC-E is remarkably selective inducing only degradation of the Halo tagged endogenous VPS34 complex (VPS34, VPS15, Beclin1, and ATG14) and no other proteins were significantly degraded. This study exemplifies the combination of HaloPROTACs with CRISPR/Cas9 endogenous protein tagging as a useful method to induce rapid and reversible degradation of endogenous proteins to interrogate their function.
PXD012998	30979743	Proteomics-Derived Biomarker Panel Improves Diagnostic Precision to Classify Endometrioid and High-grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of endometrioid and high-grade serous ovarian tumour samples	biomarker, endometrioid ovarian cancer, high grade serous ovarian cancer, immunohistochemistry, label-free quantification	PURPOSE: Ovarian carcinomas are a group of distinct diseases classified by histotypes. As histotype-specific treatment evolves, accurate classification will become critical for optimal precision medicine approaches. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To uncover differences between the two most common histotypes, high-grade serous (HGSC) and endometrioid carcinoma, we performed label-free quantitative proteomics on freshly frozen tumor tissues (HGSC, n = 10; endometrioid carcinoma, n = 10). Eight candidate protein biomarkers specific to endometrioid carcinoma were validated by IHC using tissue microarrays representing 361 cases of either endometrioid carcinoma or HGSC. RESULTS: More than 500 proteins were differentially expressed (P < 0.05) between endometrioid carcinoma and HGSC tumor proteomes. A ranked set of 106 proteins was sufficient to correctly discriminate 90% of samples. IHC validated KIAA1324 as the most discriminatory novel biomarker for endometrioid carcinoma. An 8-marker panel was found to exhibit superior performance for discriminating endometrioid carcinoma from HGSC compared with the current standard of WT1 plus TP53 alone, improving the classification rate for HGSC from 90.7% to 99.2%. Endometrioid carcinoma-specific diagnostic markers such as PLCB1, KIAA1324, and SCGB2A1 were also significantly associated with favorable prognosis within endometrioid carcinoma suggesting biological heterogeneity within this histotype. Pathway analysis of proteomic data revealed differences between endometrioid carcinoma and HGSC pertaining to estrogen and interferon signalling. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, these findings support the use of multi-marker panels for the differential diagnosis of difficult cases resembling endometrioid carcinoma and HGSC.
PXD008032	30979792	INKA, an integrative data analysis pipeline for phosphoproteomic inference of active kinases. 	Differential activity of treatment with protein kinase inhibitors on tumor phosphotyrosine profiles in patients with advanced cancer	Tyrosine kinase, label-free, phosphoproteomics, protein kinase inhibitor, single-shot	Identifying hyperactive kinases in cancer is crucial for individualized treatment with specific inhibitors. Kinase activity can be discerned from global protein phosphorylation profiles obtained with mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics. A major challenge is to relate such profiles to specific hyperactive kinases fueling growth/progression of individual tumors. Hitherto, the focus has been on phosphorylation of either kinases or their substrates. Here, we combined label-free kinase-centric and substrate-centric information in an Integrative Inferred Kinase Activity (INKA) analysis. This multipronged, stringent analysis enables ranking of kinase activity and visualization of kinase-substrate networks in a single biological sample. To demonstrate utility, we analyzed (i) cancer cell lines with known oncogenes, (ii) cell lines in a differential setting (wild-type versus mutant, +/- drug), (iii) pre- and on-treatment tumor needle biopsies, (iv) cancer cell panel with available drug sensitivity data, and (v) patient-derived tumor xenografts with INKA-guided drug selection and testing. These analyses show superior performance of INKA over its components and substrate-based single-sample tool KARP, and underscore target potential of high-ranking kinases, encouraging further exploration of INKA's functional and clinical value.
PXD011925	30979931	A comprehensive proteomics-based interaction screen that links DYRK1A to RNF169 and to the DNA damage response. 	A proteomics-based interaction screen links DYRK1A to RNF169 and to the DNA damage response	DNA damage, DYRK1A, LCMSMS, RNF169, interactome	Dysregulation of the DYRK1A protein kinase has been associated with human disease. On the one hand, its overexpression in trisomy 21 has been linked to certain pathological traits of Down syndrome, while on the other, inactivating mutations in just one allele are responsible for a distinct yet rare clinical syndrome, DYRK1A haploinsufficiency. Moreover, altered expression of this kinase may also provoke other human pathologies, including cancer and diabetes. Although a few DYRK1A substrates have been described, its upstream regulators and downstream targets are still poorly understood, an information that could shed light on the functions of DYRK1A in the cell. Here, we carried out a proteomic screen using antibody-based affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry to identify proteins that directly or indirectly bind to endogenous DYRK1A. We show that the use of a cell line not expressing DYRK1A, generated by CRISPR/Cas9 technology, was needed in order to discriminate between true positives and non-specific interactions. Most of the proteins identified in the screen are novel candidate DYRK1A interactors linked to a variety of activities in the cell. The in-depth characterization of DYRK1A's functional interaction with one of them, the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF169, revealed a role for this kinase in the DNA damage response. We found that RNF169 is a DYRK1A substrate and we identified several of its phosphorylation sites. In particular, one of these sites appears to modify the ability of RNF169 to displace 53BP1 from sites of DNA damage. Indeed, DYRK1A depletion increases cell sensitivity to ionizing irradiation. Therefore, our unbiased proteomic screen has revealed a novel activity of DYRK1A, expanding the complex role of this kinase in controlling cell homeostasis.
PXD012013	30982958	Methyl ketone production by Pseudomonas putida is enhanced by plant-derived amino acids. 	Methyl ketone production by Pseudomonas putida is enhanced by plant-derived amino acids	amino acids., biomass hydrolysates, lignin-related aromatics, methyl ketones, protein	Plants are an attractive sourceof renewable carbon for conversion to biofuels and bio-based chemicals. Conversion strategies often use a fraction of the biomass, focusing on sugars from cellulose and hemicellulose. Strategies that use plant components, such as aromatics and amino acids, may improve the efficiency of biomass conversion. Pseudomonas putida is a promising host for its ability to metabolize a wide variety of organic compounds. P. putida was engineered to produce methyl ketones, which are promising diesel blendstocks and potential platform chemicals, from glucose and lignin-related aromatics. Unexpectedly, P. putida methyl ketone production using Arabidopsis thaliana hydrolysates was enhanced 2-5-fold compared with sugar controls derived from engineered plants that overproduce lignin-related aromatics. This enhancement was more pronounced (~seven-fold increase) with hydrolysates from nonengineered switchgrass. Proteomic analysis of the methyl ketone-producing P. putida suggested that plant-derived amino acids may be the source of this enhancement. Mass spectrometry-based measurements of plant-derived amino acids demonstrated a high correlation between methyl ketone production and amino acid concentration in plant hydrolysates. Amendment of glucose-containing minimal media with a defined mixture of amino acids similar to those found in the hydrolysates studied led to a nine-fold increase in methyl ketone titer (1.1 g/L).
PXD010762	30983354	Serum Exosomes from Newborn Piglets Restrict Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus Infection. 	comparative proteome analysis of serum exosomes from newborn piglets inresponse to porcine epidemic diarrhea virus infection	Serum exosome, antiviral effect, complement, neonate, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus	Exosomes are vehicles in the body fluid that participate in many biological processes, especially immune responses. In this study, we employed comparative proteome analysis to investigate the roles of serum exosomes during viral infection in neonates using porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), a devastating enteric virus in newborn piglets, as a model virus. Serum exosomes were first isolated from newborn piglets infected with PEDV or mock-infected newborn piglets, followed by label-free LC-MS/MS-based comparative quantitative proteomic analysis. Among the 441 detected proteins, 10 complement proteins were found in the serum exosomes, and significantly decreased expression levels of the C3, C6, and CFB complements were measured in PEDV-infected serum exosomes compared to those in mock-infected serum exosomes. After confirmation by Western blot, we then investigated the function of these exosomes in PEDV infection and discovered that exosomes from mock-infected newborn piglets restricted PEDV infection. However, this inhibition disappeared after the exosomes were heat-inactivated, suggesting that complements are key antiviral molecules. Our findings improve the understanding of antiviral responses mediated by exosomes in neonatal piglets and facilitate the discovery of novel antiviral drugs.
PXD010285	30984116	Identification of O-Glcnacylated Proteins in Trypanosoma cruzi. 	Identification of O-GlcNAcylated proteins in the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi	O-GlcNAc, PTM, Trypanosoma cruzi, click chemistry, epimastigote	Originally an anthropozoonosis in the Americas, Chagas disease has spread from its previous borders through migration. It is caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. Differences in disease severity have been attributed to a natural pleomorphism in T. cruzi. Several post-translational modifications (PTMs) have been studied in T. cruzi, but to date no work has focused on O-GlcNAcylation, a highly conserved monosaccharide-PTM of serine and threonine residues mainly found in nucleus, cytoplasm, and mitochondrion proteins. O-GlcNAcylation is thought to regulate protein function analogously to protein phosphorylation; indeed, crosstalk between both PTMs allows the cell to regulate its functions in response to nutrient levels and stress. Herein, we demonstrate O-GlcNAcylation in T. cruzi epimastigotes by three methods: by using specific antibodies against the modification in lysates and whole parasites, by click chemistry labeling, and by proteomics. In total, 1,271 putative O-GlcNAcylated proteins and six modification sequences were identified by mass spectrometry (data available via ProteomeXchange, ID PXD010285). Most of these proteins have structural and metabolic functions that are essential for parasite survival and evolution. Furthermore, O-GlcNAcylation pattern variations were observed by antibody detection under glucose deprivation and heat stress conditions, supporting their possible role in the adaptive response. Given the numerous biological processes in which O-GlcNAcylated proteins participate, its identification in T. cruzi proteins opens a new research field in the biology of Trypanosomatids, improve our understanding of infection processes and may allow us to identify new therapeutic targets.
PXD009938	30985132	Enrichment of ATP Binding Proteins Unveils Proteomic Alterations in Human Macrophage Cell Death, Inflammatory Response, and Protein Synthesis after Interaction with Candida albicans. 	Human THP1 macrophages after interacting with C. albicans, using ATP-binding protein enrichment strategy	ATP-binding proteins, Candida albicans, Macrophages, SILAC, phosphopeptides	Macrophages are involved in the primary human response to Candida albicans. After pathogen recognition, signaling pathways are activated, leading to the production of cytokines, chemokines, and antimicrobial peptides. ATP binding proteins are crucial for this regulation. Here, a quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic approach was carried out for the study of human macrophage ATP-binding proteins after interaction with C. albicans. From a total of 547 nonredundant quantified proteins, 137 were ATP binding proteins and 59 were detected as differentially abundant. From the differentially abundant ATP-binding proteins, 6 were kinases (MAP2K2, SYK, STK3, MAP3K2, NDKA, and SRPK1), most of them involved in signaling pathways. Furthermore, 85 phosphopeptides were quantified. Macrophage proteomic alterations including an increase of protein synthesis with a consistent decrease in proteolysis were observed. Besides, macrophages showed changes in proteins of endosomal trafficking together with mitochondrial proteins, including some involved in the response to oxidative stress. Regarding cell death mechanisms, an increase of antiapoptotic over pro-apoptotic signals is suggested. Furthermore, a high pro-inflammatory response was detected, together with no upregulation of key mi-RNAs involved in the negative feedback of this response. These findings illustrate a strategy to deepen the knowledge of the complex interactions between the host and the clinically important pathogen C. albicans.
PXD012176	30985291	Staphylococcus aureus drives expansion of low-density neutrophils in diabetic mice. 	S. aureus drives expansion of low density neutrophils in the diabetic host	HCD, MS2, MS3, S.aureus, Tandem mass tags, neutrophils	Diabetic individuals are at considerable risk for invasive infection by Staphylococcus aureus, however, the mechanisms underlying this enhanced susceptibility to infection are unclear. We observed increased mortality following i.v. S. aureus infection in diabetic mice compared with nondiabetic controls, correlating with increased numbers of low-density neutrophils (LDNs) and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). LDNs have been implicated in the inflammatory pathology of diseases such as lupus, given their release of large amounts of NETs. Our goal was to describe what drives LDN increases during S. aureus infection in the diabetic host and mechanisms that promote increased NET production by LDNs. LDN development is dependent on TGF-beta, which we found to be more activated in the diabetic host. Neutralization of TGF-beta, or the TGF-beta-activating integrin alphavbeta8, reduced LDN numbers and improved survival during S. aureus infection. Targeting S. aureus directly with MEDI4893*, an alpha toxin-neutralizing monoclonal antibody, blocked TGF-beta activation, reduced LDNs and NETs, and significantly improved survival. A comparison of gene and protein expression in high-density neutrophils and LDNs identified increased GPCRs and elevated phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) in the LDN subset. Inhibition of PTEN improved the survival of infected diabetic mice. Our data identify a population of neutrophils in infected diabetic mice that correlated with decreased survival and increased NET production and describe 3 therapeutic targets, a bacterial target and 2 host proteins, that prevented NET production and improved survival.
PXD007098	30985935	Dark metabolism: a molecular insight into how the Antarctic sea-ice diatom Fragilariopsis cylindrus survives long-term darkness. 	Fragilariopsis Cylindrus dark survival experiment	Sea-ice diatom, dark survival, quantitative proteomics	Light underneath Antarctic sea-ice is below detectable limits for up to 4 months of the year. The ability of Antarctic sea-ice diatoms to survive this prolonged darkness relies on their metabolic capability. This study is the first to examine the proteome of a prominent sea-ice diatom in response to extended darkness, focusing on the protein-level mechanisms of dark survival. The Antarctic diatom Fragilariopsis cylindrus was grown under continuous light or darkness for 120 d. The whole cell proteome was quantitatively analysed by nano-LC-MS/MS to investigate metabolic changes that occur during sustained darkness and during recovery under illumination. Enzymes of metabolic pathways, particularly those involved in respiratory processes, tricarboxylic acid cycle, glycolysis, the Entner-Doudoroff pathway, the urea cycle and the mitochondrial electron transport chain became more abundant in the dark. Within the plastid, carbon fixation halted while the upper sections of the glycolysis, gluconeogenesis and pentose phosphate pathways became less active. We have discovered how F. cylindrus utilises an ancient alternative metabolic mechanism that enables its capacity for long-term dark survival. By sustaining essential metabolic processes in the dark, F. cylindrus retains the functionality of the photosynthetic apparatus, ensuring rapid recovery upon re-illumination.
PXD012812	30987999	HDAC8 Regulates a Stress Response Pathway in Melanoma to Mediate Escape from BRAF Inhibitor Therapy. 	HDAC8 regulates escape from BRAF inhibitor therapy in Melanoma: Phosphotyrosine Profiling	BRAF, HDAC8, Melanoma	Melanoma cells have the ability to switch to a dedifferentiated, invasive phenotype in response to multiple stimuli. Here, we show that exposure of melanomas to multiple stresses including BRAF-MEK inhibitor therapy, hypoxia, and UV irradiation leads to an increase in histone deacetylase 8 (HDAC8) activity and the adoption of a drug-resistant phenotype. Mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics implicated HDAC8 in the regulation of MAPK and AP-1 signaling. Introduction of HDAC8 into drug-naive melanoma cells conveyed resistance both in vitro and in vivo. HDAC8-mediated BRAF inhibitor resistance was mediated via receptor tyrosine kinase activation, leading to MAPK signaling. Although HDACs function at the histone level, they also regulate nonhistone substrates, and introduction of HDAC8 decreased the acetylation of c-Jun, increasing its transcriptional activity and enriching for an AP-1 gene signature. Mutation of the putative c-Jun acetylation site at lysine 273 increased transcriptional activation of c-Jun in melanoma cells and conveyed resistance to BRAF inhibition. In vivo xenograft studies confirmed the key role of HDAC8 in therapeutic adaptation, with both nonselective and HDAC8-specific inhibitors enhancing the durability of BRAF inhibitor therapy. Our studies demonstrate that HDAC8-specific inhibitors limit the adaptation of melanoma cells to multiple stresses including BRAF-MEK inhibition. SIGNIFICANCE: This study provides evidence that HDAC8 drives transcriptional plasticity in melanoma cells in response to a range of stresses through direct deacetylation of c-Jun.Graphical Abstract: http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/canres/79/11/2947/F1.large.jpg.
PXD009857	30988283	Serine 25 phosphorylation inhibits RIPK1 kinase-dependent cell death in models of infection and inflammation. 	RPK1 phosphorylation and cell death	RPK1, cell deth	RIPK1 regulates cell death and inflammation through kinase-dependent and -independent mechanisms. As a scaffold, RIPK1 inhibits caspase-8-dependent apoptosis and RIPK3/MLKL-dependent necroptosis. As a kinase, RIPK1 paradoxically induces these cell death modalities. The molecular switch between RIPK1 pro-survival and pro-death functions remains poorly understood. We identify phosphorylation of RIPK1 on Ser25 by IKKs as a key mechanism directly inhibiting RIPK1 kinase activity and preventing TNF-mediated RIPK1-dependent cell death. Mimicking Ser25 phosphorylation (S > D mutation) protects cells and mice from the cytotoxic effect of TNF in conditions of IKK inhibition. In line with their roles in IKK activation, TNF-induced Ser25 phosphorylation of RIPK1 is defective in TAK1- or SHARPIN-deficient cells and restoring phosphorylation protects these cells from TNF-induced death. Importantly, mimicking Ser25 phosphorylation compromises the in vivo cell death-dependent immune control of Yersinia infection, a physiological model of TAK1/IKK inhibition, and rescues the cell death-induced multi-organ inflammatory phenotype of the SHARPIN-deficient mice.
PXD012723	30988309	Structural basis of specific H2A K13/K15 ubiquitination by RNF168. 	Crosslinking RNF168(1-113) to Nucleosome core particels	Nucleosome, RNF168, XL-MS	Ubiquitination of chromatin by modification of histone H2A is a critical step in both regulation of DNA repair and regulation of cell fate. These very different outcomes depend on the selective modification of distinct lysine residues in H2A, each by a specific E3 ligase. While polycomb PRC1 complexes modify K119, resulting in gene silencing, the E3 ligase RNF168 modifies K13/15, which is a key event in the response to DNA double-strand breaks. The molecular origin of ubiquitination site specificity by these related E3 enzymes is one of the open questions in the field. Using a combination of NMR spectroscopy, crosslinking mass-spectrometry, mutagenesis and data-driven modelling, here we show that RNF168 binds the acidic patch on the nucleosome surface, directing the E2 to the target lysine. The structural model highlights the role of E3 and nucleosome in promoting ubiquitination and provides a basis for understanding and engineering of chromatin ubiquitination specificity.
PXD012942	30988423	Bone vascular niche E-selectin induces mesenchymal-epithelial transition and Wnt activation in cancer cells to promote bone metastasis. 	N-glycoprotein capture mass spectrometry identifies candidate substrates of human Fut enzymes	Fut, N-glycoprotein enrichment, PNGaseF	How disseminated tumour cells engage specific stromal components in distant organs for survival and outgrowth is a critical but poorly understood step of the metastatic cascade. Previous studies have demonstrated the importance of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in promoting the cancer stem cell properties needed for metastasis initiation, whereas the reverse process of mesenchymal-epithelial transition is required for metastatic outgrowth. Here we report that this paradoxical requirement for the simultaneous induction of both mesenchymal-epithelial transition and cancer stem cell traits in disseminated tumour cells is provided by bone vascular niche E-selectin, whose direct binding to cancer cells promotes bone metastasis by inducing mesenchymal-epithelial transition and activating Wnt signalling. E-selectin binding activity mediated by the alpha1-3 fucosyltransferases Fut3/Fut6 and Glg1 are instrumental to the formation of bone metastasis. These findings provide unique insights into the functional role of E-selectin as a component of the vascular niche critical for metastatic colonization in bone.
PXD009959	30988453	SWITCH 1/DYAD is a WINGS APART-LIKE antagonist that maintains sister chromatid cohesion in meiosis. 	SWI1 in vitro phosphorylation -  SWITCH 1/DYAD is a WINGS APART-LIKE antagonist that maintains sister chromatid cohesion in meiosis	Phosphorylation, SWI1	Mitosis and meiosis both rely on cohesin, which embraces the sister chromatids and plays a crucial role for the faithful distribution of chromosomes to daughter cells. Prior to the cleavage by Separase at anaphase onset, cohesin is largely removed from chromosomes by the non-proteolytic action of WINGS APART-LIKE (WAPL), a mechanism referred to as the prophase pathway. To prevent the premature loss of sister chromatid cohesion, WAPL is inhibited in early mitosis by Sororin. However, Sororin homologs have only been found to function as WAPL inhibitors during mitosis in vertebrates and Drosophila. Here we show that SWITCH 1/DYAD defines a WAPL antagonist that acts in meiosis of Arabidopsis. Crucially, SWI1 becomes dispensable for sister chromatid cohesion in the absence of WAPL. Despite the lack of any sequence similarities, we found that SWI1 is regulated and functions in a similar manner as Sororin hence likely representing a case of convergent molecular evolution across the eukaryotic kingdom.
PXD004441	30988608	Plasma protein adsorption on Fe3O4-PEG nanoparticles activates the complement system and induces an inflammatory response. 	Interaction of iron oxide nanoparticles with human plasma	complement, inflammation, iron oxide nanoparticles, protein corona	BACKGROUND: Understanding of iron oxide nanoparticles (IONP) interaction with the body milieu is crucial to guarantee their efficiency and biocompatibility in nanomedicine. Polymer coating to IONP, with polyethyleneglycol (PEG) and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), is an accepted strategy to prevent toxicity and excessive protein binding. AIM: The aim of this study was to investigate the feature of IONP adsorption of complement proteins, their activation and consequent inflammatory response as a strategy to further elucidate their biocompatibility. METHODS: Three types of IONP with different surface characteristics were used: bare (IONP-bare), coated with PVP (IONP-PVP) and PEG-coated (IONP-PEG). IONPs were incubated with human plasma and adsorbed proteins were identified. BALB/c mice were intravenously exposed to IONP to evaluate complement activation and proinflammatory response. RESULTS: Protein corona fingerprinting showed that PEG surface around IONP promoted a selective adsorption of complement recognition molecules which would be responsible for the complement system activation. Furthermore, IONP-PEG activated in vitro, the complement system and induced a substantial increment of C3a and C4a anaphylatoxins while IONP-bare and IONP-PVP did not. In vivo IONP-PEG induced an increment in complement activation markers (C5a and C5b-9), and proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha). CONCLUSION: The engineering of nanoparticles must incorporate the association between complement proteins and nanomedicines, which will regulate the immunostimulatory effects through a selective adsorption of plasma proteins and will enable a safer application of IONP in human therapy.
PXD012526	30990045	Global Quantification of Intact Proteins via Chemical Isotope Labeling and Mass Spectrometry. 	Global quantification of intact proteins via chemical isotope labeling and mass spectrometry	Chemical isotope labeling, Highest isotopic peak, Intact protein quantification, pTOP	Although thousands of intact proteins have been feasibly identified in recent years, global quantification of intact proteins is still challenging. Herein, we develop a high-throughput strategy for global intact protein quantification based on chemical isotope labeling. The isotope incorporation efficiency is as high as 99.2% for complex intact protein samples extracted from HeLa cells. Further, the pTop 2.0 software is developed for automated quantification of intact proteoforms in a high-throughput manner. The high quantification accuracy and reproducibility of this strategy have been demonstrated for both standard and complex cellular protein samples. A total of 2283 intact proteoforms originated from 660 protein accessions are successfully quantified under anaerobic and aerobic conditions and the differentially expressed proteins are observed to be involved in the important biological processes such as stress response.
PXD009365	30990047	Tandem Mass Tag Based Quantitative Proteomics of Developing Sea Buckthorn Berries Reveals Candidate Proteins Related to Lipid Metabolism. 	TMT-based Quantitative Proteomics of Developing Sea Buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides) Berries Reveals Candidate Proteins Related to Lipid Metabolism	Hippophae rhamnoides, TMT-based quantitative, lipid metabolism	Sea buckthorn ( Hippophae L.) is an economically important shrub or small tree distributed in Eurasia. Most of its well-recognized medicinal and nutraceutical products are derived from its berry oil, which is rich in monounsaturated omega-7 (C16:1) fatty acid and polyunsaturated omega-6 (C18:2) and omega-3 (C18:3) fatty acids. In this study, tandem mass tags (TMT)-based quantitative analysis was used to investigate protein profiles of lipid metabolism in sea buckthorn berries harvested 30, 50, and 70 days after flowering. In total, 8626 proteins were identified, 6170 of which were quantified. Deep analysis results for the proteins identified and related pathways revealed initial fatty acid accumulation during whole-berry development. The abundance of most key enzymes involved in fatty acid and triacylglycerol (TAG) biosynthesis peaked at 50 days after flowering, but TAG synthesis through the PDAT (phospholipid: diacylglycerol acyltransferase) pathway mostly occurred early in berry development. In addition, the patterns of proteins involved in lipid metabolism were confirmed by combined quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and parallel reaction monitoring analyses. Our data on the proteomic spectrum of sea buckthorn berries provide a scientific basic for understanding lipid metabolism and related pathways in the developing berries.
PXD013061	30991026	Synthetic Lethality of Wnt Pathway Activation and Asparaginase in Drug-Resistant Acute Leukemias. 	Asparaginase and GSK3A inhibitor treatment of CCRF-CEM cells	Asparaginase, GSK3, leukemia	Resistance to asparaginase, an antileukemic enzyme that depletes asparagine, is a common clinical problem. Using a genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screen, we found a synthetic lethal interaction between Wnt pathway activation and asparaginase in acute leukemias resistant to this enzyme. Wnt pathway activation induced asparaginase sensitivity in distinct treatment-resistant subtypes of acute leukemia, but not in normal hematopoietic progenitors. Sensitization to asparaginase was mediated by Wnt-dependent stabilization of proteins (Wnt/STOP), which inhibits glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3)-dependent protein ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, a catabolic source of asparagine. Inhibiting the alpha isoform of GSK3 phenocopied this effect, and pharmacologic GSK3alpha inhibition profoundly sensitized drug-resistant leukemias to asparaginase. Our findings provide a molecular rationale for activation of Wnt/STOP signaling to improve the therapeutic index of asparaginase.
PXD012835	30992086	Qualitative and quantitative proteomic analyses of Schistosoma japonicum eggs and egg-derived secretory-excretory proteins. 	Qualitative and Quantitative proteomic analyses of Schistosoma japonicum Eggs and Egg-derived Secretory-Excretory proteins	ESP, Eggs, SWATH analysis., Schistosoma japonicum, Schistosomiasis	BACKGROUND: Schistosome parasites lay up to a thousand eggs per day inside the veins of their mammalian hosts. The immature eggs deposited by females against endothelia of venules will embryonate within days. Approximately 30% of the eggs will migrate to the lumen of the intestine to continue the parasite life-cycle. Many eggs, however, are trapped in the liver and intestine causing the main pathology associated with schistosomiasis mansoni and japonica, the liver granulomatous response. Excretory-secretory egg proteins drive much of egg-induced pathogenesis of schistosomiasis mansoni, and Schistosoma japonicum induce a markedly distinct granulomatous response to that of S. mansoni. METHODS: To explore the basis of variations in this responsiveness, we investigated the proteome of eggs of S. japonicum. Using mass spectrometry qualitative and quantitative (SWATH) analyses, we describe the protein composition of S. japonicum eggs secretory proteins (ESP), and the differential expression of proteins by fully mature and immature eggs, isolated from faeces and ex vivo adults. RESULTS: Of 957 egg-related proteins identified, 95 were exclusively found in S. japonicum ESP which imply that they are accessible to host immune system effector elements. An in-silico analysis implies that ESP are able of stimulating the innate and adaptive immune system through several different pathways. While quantitative SWATH analysis revealed 124 proteins that are differentially expressed by mature and immature S. japonicum eggs, illuminating some important aspects of eggs biology and infection, we also show that mature eggs are more likely than immature eggs to stimulate host immune responses. CONCLUSIONS: Here we present a list of potential targets that can be used to develop better strategies to avoid severe morbidity during S. japonicum infection, as well as improving diagnosis, treatment and control of schistosomiasis japonica.
PXD013127	30992312	Loss of BAP1 Results in Growth Inhibition and Enhances Mesenchymal-Epithelial Transition in Kidney Tumor Cells. 	786-O ubiquitiome	ccRCC 786-O ubiquitiome	BRCA1-associated protein 1 (BAP1) is a member of the ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase family of deubiquitinating enzymes and is implicated in transcriptional regulation. The BAP1 gene is mutated in about 10% of patients with ccRCC, the most common form of renal cancer, suggesting that BAP1 is a tumor suppressor. However, whether BAP1 influences the progression of ccRCC tumors expressing wild-type (WT) BAP1 is unclear. Here, we assessed the expression and function of BAP1 using human ccRCC specimens and cell lines. Analysis of datasets in The Cancer Genome Atlas revealed that lower BAP1 expression is correlated with longer overall survival of ccRCC patients. We established human ccRCC cell lines with stable BAP1 knockout and performed multiomic analysis of BAP1-mediated cellular processes. BAP1 knockout downregulated proteins associated with protein synthesis, resulting in decreased cell growth. Importantly, loss of BAP1 decreased the formation of stress fibers and membrane protrusions and induced migration and invasion defects. BAP1 knockout in ccRCC cells also downregulated the expression of transcriptional repressor protein Snail and decreased the activity of Rho family GTPases, promoting the cells to undergo mesenchymal-epithelial transition. Unexpectedly, quantitative proteomics also showed that BAP1 knockout increased expression of several amino acid transporters and multiple tyrosine kinases, including the epidermal growth factor receptor. Overall, our results suggest that BAP1 regulates multiple cellular processes, and we also uncover a new role for BAP1 in controlling mesenchymal-epithelial transition in ccRCC cells.
PXD012548	30992313	High-throughput Exploration of the Network Dependent on AKT1 in Mouse Ovarian Granulosa Cells. 	Akt1 depletion in murine ovarian granulosa cells reveals known and novel molecular and cellular processes dependent on this kinase	AKT1, Knock-Down, granulosa cells, transcriptomics	The PI3K/AKT signaling pathway is known to regulate a broad range of cellular processes, and it is often altered in several types of cancers. Recently, somatic AKT1 mutations leading to a strong activation of this kinase have been reported in juvenile granulosa cell tumors. However, the molecular role of AKT1 in the supporting cell lineage of the ovary is still poorly understood. To get insights into its function in such cells, we depleted Akt1 in murine primary granulosa cells and assessed the molecular consequences at both the transcript and protein levels. We were able to corroborate the involvement of AKT1 in the regulation of metabolism, apoptosis, cell cycle, or cytoskeleton dynamics in this ovarian cell type. Consistently, we showed in established granulosa cells that depletion of Akt1 provoked altered directional persistent migration and increased its velocity. This study also allowed us to put forward new direct and indirect targets of the kinase. Indeed, a series of proteins involved in intracellular transport and mitochondrial physiology were significantly affected by Akt1 depletion. Using in silico analyses, we also propose a set of kinases and transcription factors that can mediate the action of AKT1 on the deregulated transcripts and proteins. Taken altogether, our results provide a resource of direct and indirect AKT1 targets in granulosa cells and may help understand its roles in this ovarian cell type.
PXD012682	30993368	Cleavable hydrophobic derivatization strategy for enrichment and identification of phosphorylated lysine peptides. 	Cleavable Hydrophobic Derivatization Strategy for Enrichment and Identification of Phosphorylated Lysine Peptides	Hydrophobic Derivatization, N-phosphorylation, Phosphorylated Lysine peptides	Because of structural flexibility and acid lability, the identification of phosphorylated lysine (pLys) peptides is a great challenge. We report here a cleavable hydrophobic derivatization (CHD) strategy for the enrichment and identification of pLys peptides. First, 2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-1-yl-3-(decyldisulfanyl)propanoate was synthesized to react with dephosphorylated lysine peptides, and then the derived peptides were captured by a C18 column, followed by cleavage of the hydrophobic chain, with the specific label left on the target peptides for further identification. By CHD, the enrichment of pLys peptides from interfering peptides (1:1000 mass ratio) was achieved. Furthermore, CHD was applied to screen the pLys targets from Escherichia coli lysates, and 39 pLys sites from 35 proteins were identified. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis showed that these proteins played vital roles in catabolism, metabolism, biogenesis, and biosynthetic processes. All these results demonstrate that CHD might pave the way for comprehensive profiling of the pLys proteome.
PXD009634	30996098	Phosphoproteome Analysis of Cells Infected with Adapted and Nonadapted Influenza A Virus Reveals Novel Pro- and Antiviral Signaling Networks. 	Phospho Proteomics Study for Mouse MLE15 Cell Infected by Influenza Virus	Antibody, IMAC, Influenza Virus, Mouse MLE15, Phospho, Tyrosine, iMac	Influenza A viruses (IAVs) quickly adapt to new environments and are well known to cross species barriers. To reveal a molecular basis for these phenomena, we compared the Ser/Thr and Tyr phosphoproteomes of murine lung epithelial cells early and late after infection with mouse-adapted SC35M virus or its nonadapted SC35 counterpart. With this analysis we identified a large set of upregulated Ser/Thr phosphorylations common to both viral genotypes, while Tyr phosphorylations showed little overlap. Most of the proteins undergoing massive changes of phosphorylation in response to both viruses regulate chromatin structure, RNA metabolism, and cell adhesion, including a focal adhesion kinase (FAK)-regulated network mediating the regulation of actin dynamics. IAV also affected phosphorylation of activation loops of 37 protein kinases, including FAK and several phosphatases, many of which were not previously implicated in influenza virus infection. Inhibition of FAK proved its contribution to IAV infection. Novel phosphorylation sites were found on IAV-encoded proteins, and the functional analysis of selected phosphorylation sites showed that they either support (NA Ser178) or inhibit (PB1 Thr223) virus propagation. Together, these data allow novel insights into IAV-triggered regulatory phosphorylation circuits and signaling networks.IMPORTANCE Infection with IAVs leads to the induction of complex signaling cascades, which apparently serve two opposing functions. On the one hand, the virus highjacks cellular signaling cascades in order to support its propagation; on the other hand, the host cell triggers antiviral signaling networks. Here we focused on IAV-triggered phosphorylation events in a systematic fashion by deep sequencing of the phosphoproteomes. This study revealed a plethora of newly phosphorylated proteins. We also identified 37 protein kinases and a range of phosphatases that are activated or inactivated following IAV infection. Moreover, we identified new phosphorylation sites on IAV-encoded proteins. Some of these phosphorylations support the enzymatic function of viral components, while other phosphorylations are inhibitory, as exemplified by PB1 Thr223 modification. Our global characterization of IAV-triggered patterns of phospho-proteins provides a rich resource to further understand host responses to infection at the level of phosphorylation-dependent signaling networks.
PXD009903	30996934	Label-free target identification reveals oxidative DNA damage as the mechanism of a selective cytotoxic agent. 	Target identification of SB2001 by thermal proteome profiling	Thermal proteome profiling, target identification	Phenotypic screening can not only identify promising first-in-class drug candidates, but can also reveal potential therapeutic targets or neomorphic functions of known proteins. In this study, we identified target proteins of SB2001, a cytotoxic agent that acts specifically against HeLa human cervical cancer cells. Because SB2001 lacks chemical modification sites, label-free target identification methods including thermal stability shift-based fluorescence difference in two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (TS-FITGE) and thermal proteome profiling (TPP) were applied to characterize its mechanism of action. Owing to their differences, the two label-free target identification methods uncovered complementary target candidates. Candidates from both methods were prioritized according to their selective lethality upon the knockdown of those genes in HeLa cells, compared to CaSki cells which were used as a negative control cell line from the human cervix. LTA4H was identified only by TS-FITGE, but not by TPP, because only one isoform was stabilized by SB2001. Furthermore, it was implied that a non-canonical function of LTA4H was involved in the SB2001 activity. MTH1 was identified by both TS-FITGE and TPP, and SB2001 inhibited the function of MTH1 in hydrolyzing oxidized nucleotides. Compared to CaSki cells, HeLa cells displayed downregulated DNA mismatch repair pathways, which made HeLa cells more susceptible to the oxidative stress caused by SB2001, resulting in increased 8-oxoG concentrations, DNA damage, and subsequent cell death.
PXD013054	30997501	TNRC6 proteins modulate hepatitis C virus replication by spatially regulating the binding of miR-122/Ago2 complexes to viral RNA. 	miR-122-dependent binding of TNRC6 to HCV RNA	AP-MS, RISC complex, RNA stability, microRNA, protein translation	The liver-specific microRNA, miR-122, is an essential host factor for replication of the hepatitis C virus (HCV). miR-122 stabilizes the positive-strand HCV RNA genome and promotes its synthesis by binding two sites (S1 and S2) near its 5' end in association with Ago2. Ago2 is essential for both host factor activities, but whether other host proteins are involved is unknown. Using an unbiased quantitative proteomics screen, we identified the TNRC6 protein paralogs, TNRC6B and TNRC6C, as functionally important but redundant components of the miR-122/Ago2 host factor complex. Doubly depleting TNRC6B and TNRC6C proteins reduced HCV replication in human hepatoma cells, dampening miR-122 stimulation of viral RNA synthesis without reducing the stability or translational activity of the viral RNA. TNRC6B/C were required for optimal miR-122 host factor activity only when S1 was able to bind miR-122, and restricted replication when S1 was mutated and only S2 bound by miR-122. TNRC6B/C preferentially associated with S1, and TNRC6B/C depletion enhanced Ago2 association at S2. Collectively, these data suggest a model in which TNRC6B/C regulate the assembly of miR-122/Ago complexes on HCV RNA, preferentially directing miR-122/Ago2 to S1 while restricting its association with S2, thereby fine-tuning the spatial organization of miR-122/Ago2 complexes on the viral genome.
PXD013065	30999580	Quantitative Phosphoproteomic and Physiological Analyses Provide Insights into the Formation of the Variegated Leaf in Catalpa fargesii. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic and physiological analyses provide insights into the formation of the variegated leaf in Catalpa fargesii	Catalpa fargesii, phosphoproteomics, regulated mechanism, variegated leaf	Variegated plants are valuable materials for investigating leaf color regulated mechanisms. To unveil the role of posttranslational modification in the variegated phenotype, we conducted global quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis on different leaf color sectors of Maiyuanjinqiu and the corresponding of Catalpa fargesii using Ti(4+)-IMAC phosphopeptide enrichment. A total of 3778 phosphorylated sites assigned to 1646 phosphoproteins were identified, and 3221 in 1434 proteins were quantified. Differential phosphoproteins (above 1.5 or below 1/1.5) in various leaf color sectors were selected for functional enrichment analyses. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment revealed that processes of photosynthesis, regulation of the generation of precursor metabolites, response to stress, homeostasis, amino acid metabolism, transport-related processes, and most of the energy metabolisms might contribute to leaf color. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis was performed based on differential phosphoproteins (DPs) in different organelles. The result showed that most enriched pathways were located in the chloroplasts and cytosol. The phosphorylation levels of glycometabolism enzymes might greatly affect leaf variegation. Measurements of fluorescence parameters and enzyme activities confirmed that protein phosphorylation could affect plant physiology by regulating enzyme activity. These results provide new clues for further study the formation mechanisms of naturally variegated phenotype.
PXD005157	30999875	Differential proteomic comparison of breast cancer secretome using a quantitative paired analysis workflow. 	Differential proteomic comparison of the breast cancer secretome using a quantitative paired analysis workflow	breast cancer, paired analysis, tumor microenvironment	BACKGROUND: Worldwide, breast cancer is the main cause of cancer mortality in women. Most cases originate in mammary ductal cells that produce the nipple aspirate fluid (NAF). In cancer patients, this secretome contains proteins associated with the tumor microenvironment. NAF studies are challenging because of inter-individual variability. We introduced a paired-proteomic shotgun strategy that relies on NAF analysis from both breasts of patients with unilateral breast cancer and extended PatternLab for Proteomics software to take advantage of this setup. METHODS: The software is based on a peptide-centric approach and uses the binomial distribution to attribute a probability for each peptide as being linked to the disease; these probabilities are propagated to a final protein p-value according to the Stouffer's Z-score method. RESULTS: A total of 1227 proteins were identified and quantified, of which 87 were differentially abundant, being mainly involved in glycolysis (Warburg effect) and immune system activation (activated stroma). Additionally, in the estrogen receptor-positive subgroup, proteins related to the regulation of insulin-like growth factor transport and platelet degranulation displayed higher abundance, confirming the presence of a proliferative microenvironment. CONCLUSIONS: We debuted a differential bioinformatics workflow for the proteomic analysis of NAF, validating this secretome as a treasure-trove for studying a paired-organ cancer type.
PXD017922	30	Lysosomal hydrolases of the epidermis. I. Glycosidases. 	Trans-splicing of class I HLA bound peptides diversifies the immunopeptidome	HLA, Immunopeptidome, post-translational modification, proteasome, spliced peptides	Seven distinct glycosidases (EC 3.2) have been characterized in guinea-pig epidermis. Their properties indicate them to be of lysosomal origin. The 'profile' of the epidermal glycosidases is significantly different from that reported for whole skin, the activities of beta-galactosidase and beta-acetylglucosaminidase being very high and those of the remaining enzymes relatively low in epidermis.
PXD013245	31000698	BRD9 binds cell type-specific chromatin regions regulating leukemic cell survival via STAT5 inhibition. 	BRD9 regulates leukemic cell survival via STAT5 pathway inhibition	BRD9, Leukemia, STAT5	Leukemia is characterized by genetic and epigenetic mutations resulting in selection of cancer cells, which are unable to differentiate. Although genetic alterations are difficult to target, the epigenome is intrinsically dynamic and readily offers new therapeutic strategies. Thus, identifying cancer-specific context-dependent targets and unraveling their biological function may open up new therapeutic perspectives. Here we identify bromodomain-containing protein 9 (BRD9) as a critical target required in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We show that BRD9 is overexpressed in AML cells including ex vivo primary blasts compared with CD34(+) cells. By targeting BRD9 expression in AML, we observed an alteration in proliferation and survival, ultimately resulting in the induction of apoptosis. Intriguingly, genome-wide profiling revealed that BRD9 binds enhancer regions in a cell type-specific manner, regulating cell type-related processes. We unveil a novel BRD9-sustained STAT5 pathway activation via regulation of SOCS3 expression levels. Our findings identify a previously undescribed BRD9-STAT5 axis as critical for leukemia maintenance, suggesting BRD9 as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD013085	31000703	Dishevelled-3 conformation dynamics analyzed by FRET-based biosensors reveals a key role of casein kinase 1. 	Dishevelled-3 protein conformation dynamics analyzed by FRET-based biosensors reveals a key role of casein kinase 1	Dishevelled, FlAsH-based FRET approach, casein kinase 1 , conformation, phosphorylation	Dishevelled (DVL) is the key component of the Wnt signaling pathway. Currently, DVL conformational dynamics under native conditions is unknown. To overcome this limitation, we develop the Fluorescein Arsenical Hairpin Binder- (FlAsH-) based FRET in vivo approach to study DVL conformation in living cells. Using this single-cell FRET approach, we demonstrate that (i) Wnt ligands induce open DVL conformation, (ii) DVL variants that are predominantly open, show more even subcellular localization and more efficient membrane recruitment by Frizzled (FZD) and (iii) Casein kinase 1 epsilon (CK1epsilon) has a key regulatory function in DVL conformational dynamics. In silico modeling and in vitro biophysical methods explain how CK1epsilon-specific phosphorylation events control DVL conformations via modulation of the PDZ domain and its interaction with DVL C-terminus. In summary, our study describes an experimental tool for DVL conformational sampling in living cells and elucidates the essential regulatory role of CK1epsilon in DVL conformational dynamics.
PXD009581	31000734	Proteins that physically interact with the phosphatase Cdc14 in Candida albicans have diverse roles in the cell cycle. 	A proteome-wide screen of Cdc14 interactors in Candida albicans	Candida albicans, Cdc14, SILAC, nativeSILAC	The chromosome complement of the human fungal pathogen Candida albicans is unusually unstable, suggesting that the process of nuclear division is error prone. The Cdc14 phosphatase plays a key role in organising the intricate choreography of mitosis and cell division. In order to understand the role of Cdc14 in C. albicans we used quantitative proteomics to identify proteins that physically interact with Cdc14. To distinguish genuine Cdc14-interactors from proteins that bound non-specifically to the affinity matrix, we used a substrate trapping mutant combined with mass spectrometry analysis using Stable Isotope Labelling with Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC). The results identified 126 proteins that interact with Cdc14 of which 80% have not previously been identified as Cdc14 interactors in C. albicans or S. cerevisiae. In this set, 55 proteins are known from previous research in S. cerevisiae and S. pombe to play roles in the cell cycle, regulating the attachment of the mitotic spindle to kinetochores, mitotic exit, cytokinesis, licensing of DNA replication by re-activating pre-replication complexes, and DNA repair. Five Cdc14-interacting proteins with previously unknown functions localised to the Spindle Pole Bodies (SPBs). Thus, we have greatly increased the number of proteins that physically interact with Cdc14 in C. albicans.
PXD011485	31000743	Elevated carbon dioxide levels lead to proteome-wide alterations for optimal growth of a fast-growing cyanobacterium, Synechococcus elongatus PCC 11801. 	Elevated carbon dioxide levels lead to proteome-wide alterations for optimal growth of a fast-growing cyanobacterium, Synechococcus elongatus PCC 11801	Cyanobacteria, MRM., biofuels, high CO2, metabolic engineering	The environmental considerations attributing to the escalation of carbon dioxide emissions have raised alarmingly. Consequently, the concept of sequestration and biological conversion of CO2 by photosynthetic microorganisms is gaining enormous recognition. In this study, in an attempt to discern the synergistic CO2 tolerance mechanisms, metabolic responses to increasing CO2 concentrations were determined for Synechococcus elongatus PCC 11801, a fast-growing, novel freshwater strain, using quantitative proteomics. The protein expression data revealed that the organism responded to elevated CO2 by not only regulating the cellular transporters involved in carbon-nitrogen uptake and assimilation but also by inducing photosynthesis, carbon fixation and glycolysis. Several components of photosynthetic machinery like photosystem reaction centers, phycobilisomes, cytochromes, etc. showed a marked up-regulation with a concomitant downshift in proteins involved in photoprotection and redox maintenance. Additionally, enzymes belonging to the TCA cycle and oxidative pentose phosphate pathway exhibited a decline in their expression, further highlighting that the demand for reduced cofactors was fulfilled primarily through photosynthesis. The present study brings the first-ever comprehensive assessment of intricate molecular changes in this novel strain while shifting from carbon-limited to carbon-sufficient conditions and may pave the path for future host and pathway engineering for production of sustainable fuels through efficient CO2 capture.
PXD012067	31002470	Relationship of GUN1 to FUG1 in chloroplast protein homeostasis. 	Functional relationship of GUN1 and FUG1 in plastid proteostasis	ImpactII, arabidopsis seedlings, gun1	GUN1 integrates retrograde signals in chloroplasts but the underlying mechanism is elusive. FUG1, a chloroplast translation initiation factor, and GUN1 are co-expressed at the transcriptional level, and FUG1 co-immunoprecipitates with GUN1. We used mutants of GUN1 (gun1-103) and FUG1 (fug1-3) to analyse their functional relationship at the physiological and system-wide level, the latter including transcriptome and proteome analyses. Absence of GUN1 aggravates the effects of decreased FUG1 levels on chloroplast protein translation, resulting in transiently more pronounced phenotypes regarding photosynthesis, leaf colouration, growth and cold acclimation. The gun1-103 mutation also enhances variegation in the var2 mutant, increasing the fraction of white sectors, while fug1-3 suppresses the var2 phenotype. The transcriptomes of fug1-3 and gun1-103 plants are very similar, but absence of GUN1 alone has almost no effect on protein levels, whereas steady-state levels of chloroplast proteins are markedly decreased in fug1-3. In fug1 gun1 double mutants, effects on transcriptomes and particularly on proteomes are enhanced. Our results show that GUN1 function becomes critical when chloroplast proteostasis is perturbed by decreased rates of synthesis (fug1) or degradation (var2) of chloroplast proteins, or by low temperatures. The functions of FUG1 and GUN1 appear to be related, corroborating the view that GUN1 helps to maintain chloroplast protein homeostasis (proteostasis).
PXD012722	31006618	Validation and Invalidation of Chemical Probes for the Human N-myristoyltransferases. 	Validation and invalidation of chemical probes for the human N-myristoyltransferases.	2-hydroxymyristic acid, D-NMAPPD (B13), IMP-1088, IMP-366 (DDD85646), N-myristoylation, Tris-DBA palladium, chemical proteomics, metabolic tagging, myristic acid alkyne YnMyr	On-target, cell-active chemical probes are of fundamental importance in chemical and cell biology, whereas poorly characterized probes often lead to invalid conclusions. Human N-myristoyltransferase (NMT) has attracted increasing interest as target in cancer and infectious diseases. Here we report an in-depth comparison of five compounds widely applied as human NMT inhibitors, using a combination of quantitative whole-proteome N-myristoylation profiling, biochemical enzyme assays, cytotoxicity, in-cell protein synthesis, and cell-cycle assays. We find that N-myristoylation is unaffected by 2-hydroxymyristic acid (100 muM), D-NMAPPD (30 muM), or Tris-DBA palladium (10 muM), with the latter compounds causing cytotoxicity through mechanisms unrelated to NMT. In contrast, drug-like inhibitors IMP-366 (DDD85646) and IMP-1088 delivered complete and specific inhibition of N-myristoylation in a range of cell lines at 1 muM and 100 nM, respectively. This study enables the selection of appropriate on-target probes for future studies and suggests the need for reassessment of previous studies that used off-target compounds.
PXD013019	31006619	A Chemical Strategy for Protease Substrate Profiling. 	A chemical strategy for protease substrate profiling	CHOPS, N-terminomics, SILAC	The dipeptidyl peptidases (DPPs) regulate hormones, cytokines, and neuropeptides by cleaving dipeptides after proline from their amino termini. Due to technical challenges, many DPP substrates remain unknown. Here, we introduce a simple method, termed CHOPS (chemical enrichment of protease substrates), for the discovery of protease substrates. CHOPS exploits a 2-pyridinecarboxaldehyde (2PCA)-biotin probe, which selectively biotinylates protein N-termini except those with proline in the second position. CHOPS can, in theory, discover substrates for any protease, but is particularly well suited to discover canonical DPP substrates, as cleaved but not intact DPP substrates can be identified by gel electrophoresis or mass spectrometry. Using CHOPS, we show that DPP8 and DPP9, enzymes that control the Nlrp1 inflammasome through an unknown mechanism, do not directly cleave Nlrp1. We further show that DPP9 robustly cleaves short peptides but not full-length proteins. More generally, this work delineates a practical technology for identifying protease substrates, which we anticipate will complement available "N-terminomic" approaches.
PXD010371	31009805	Metaproteomics of fecal samples of Crohn's disease and Ulcerative Colitis. 	Metaproteomics of fecal samples supports the diagnosis of Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis	 Fecal samples  Metaproteomics  Non-invasive diagnosis  Inflammatory Bowel Disease  Crohn's Disease   Ulcerative Colitis  Gastrointestinal tract	Crohn's Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC) are chronic inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) of the gastrointestinal tract. This study used non-invasive LC-MS/MS to find disease specific microbial and human proteins which might be used later for an easier diagnosis. Therefore, 17 healthy controls, 11 CD patients and 14 UC patients but also 13 Irritable Bowel Disease (IBS) patients, 8 Colon Adenoma (CA) patients, and 8 Gastric Carcinoma (GCA) patients were investigated. The proteins were extracted from the fecal samples with liquid phenol in a ball mill. Subsequently, the proteins were digested tryptically to peptides and analyzed by an Orbitrap LC-MS/MS. For protein identification and interpretation of taxonomic and functional results, the MetaProteomeAnalyzer software was used. Cluster analysis and non-parametric test (analysis of similarities) separated healthy controls from patients with CD and UC as well as from patients with GCA. Among others, CD and UC correlated with an increase of neutrophil extracellular traps and immune globulins G (IgG). In addition, a decrease of human IgA and the transcriptional regulatory protein RprY from Bacillus fragilis was found for CD and UC. A specific marker in feces for CD was an increased amount of the human enzyme sucrose-isomaltase. SIGNIFICANCE: Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis are chronic inflammatory diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, whose diagnosis required comprehensive medical examinations including colonoscopy. The impact of the microbial communities in the gut on the pathogenesis of these diseases is poorly understood. Therefore, this study investigated the impact of gut microbiome on these diseases by a metaproteome approach, revealing several disease specific marker proteins. Overall, this indicated that fecal metaproteomics has the potential to be useful as non-invasive tool for a better and easier diagnosis of both diseases.
PXD011588	31010818	Cathepsin L Regulates Metabolic Networks Controlling Rapid Cell Growth and Proliferation. 	Cathepsin L Regulates Metabolic Networks Controlling Rapid Cell Growth and Proliferation	ABPP, Cathepsin L, cell growth proliferation	Rapidly proliferating cells reshape their metabolism to satisfy their ever-lasting need for cellular building blocks. This phenomenon is exemplified in certain malignant conditions such as cancer but also during embryonic development when cells rely heavily on glycolytic metabolism to exploit its metabolic intermediates for biosynthetic processes. How cells reshape their metabolism is not fully understood. Here we report that loss of cathepsin L (Cts L) is associated with a fast proliferation rate and enhanced glycolytic metabolism that depend on lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) activity. Using mass spectrometry analysis of cells treated with a pan cathepsin inhibitor, we observed an increased abundance of proteins involved in central carbon metabolism. Further inspection of putative Cts L targets revealed an enrichment for glycolytic metabolism that was independently confirmed by metabolomic and biochemical analyses. Moreover, proteomic analysis of Cts L-knockout cells identified LDHA overexpression that was demonstrated to be a key metabolic junction in these cells. Lastly, we show that Cts L inhibition led to increased LDHA protein expression, suggesting a causal relationship between LDHA expression and function. In conclusion, we propose that Cts L regulates this metabolic circuit to keep cell division under control, suggesting the therapeutic potential of targeting this protein and its networks in cancer.
PXD054264	31011184	Engineered peptide barcodes for in-depth analyses of binding protein libraries. 	Rapid detection and capture of clinical Escherichia coli strains mediated by OmpA-targeting nanobodies	E. coli, NestLink	Binding protein generation typically relies on laborious screening cascades that process candidate molecules individually. We have developed NestLink, a binder selection and identification technology able to biophysically characterize thousands of library members at once without the need to handle individual clones at any stage of the process. NestLink uses genetically encoded barcoding peptides termed flycodes, which were designed for maximal detectability by mass spectrometry and support accurate deep sequencing. We demonstrate NestLink's capacity to overcome the current limitations of binder-generation methods in three applications. First, we show that hundreds of binder candidates can be simultaneously ranked according to kinetic parameters. Next, we demonstrate deep mining of a nanobody immune repertoire for membrane protein binders, carried out entirely in solution without target immobilization. Finally, we identify rare binders against an integral membrane protein directly in the cellular environment of a human pathogen. NestLink opens avenues for the selection of tailored binder characteristics directly in tissues or in living organisms.
PXD012991	31015035	The immune system of the freshwater zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha, decrypted by proteogenomics of hemocytes and plasma compartments. 	Proteogenomics insights of hemocytes and plasma from the freshwater zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha	Animal, Bivalve, Dreissena, Ecotoxicology, Immune system, Mussel, Proteogenomics	The immune system of bivalves is of great interest since it reflects the health status of these organisms during stressful conditions. While immune molecular responses are well documented for marine bivalves, few information is available for continental bivalves such as the zebra mussel, Dreissena polymorpha. A proteogenomic approach was conducted on both hemocytes and plasma to identified immune proteins of this non-model species. Combining transcriptomic sequences with mass spectrometry data acquired on proteins is a relevant strategy since 3020 proteins were identified, representing the largest protein inventory for this sentinel organism. Functional annotation and gene ontology (GO) analysis performed on the identified proteins described the main molecular players of hemocytes and plasma in immunity. GO analysis highlights the complementary immune functions of these two compartments in the management of micro-organisms. Functional annotation revealed new mechanisms in the immune defence of the zebra mussel. Proteins rarely observed in the hemolymph of bivalves were pinpointed such as natterin-like and thaumatin-like proteins. Furthermore, the high abundance of complement-related proteins observed in plasma suggested a strong implication of the complement system in the immune defence of D. polymorpha. This work brings a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in zebra mussel immunity. SIGNIFICANCE: Although the molecular mechanisms of marine bivalves are widely investigated, little information is known for continental bivalves. Moreover, few proteomic studies described the complementarity of both hemolymphatic compartments (cellular and plasmatic) in the immune defence of invertebrates. The recent proteogenomics concept made it possible to discover proteins in non-model organisms. Here, we propose a proteogenomic strategy with the zebra mussel, a key sentinel species for biomonitoring of freshwater, to identify and describe the molecular actors involved in the immune system in both hemocytes and plasma compartments. More widely, this study provided new insight into bivalve immunity.
PXD012017	31015291	Proximity biotinylation identifies a set of conformation-specific interactions between Merlin and cell junction proteins. 	Proteomic analysis of the NF2/Merlin Interactome by Proximity Biotinylation	BioIB, Interactome, Merlin, NF2, Neurofibromatosis Type 2, Proximity Biotinylation, Schwann cell.	Neurofibromatosis type 2 is an inherited, neoplastic disease associated with schwannomas, meningiomas, and ependymomas and that is caused by inactivation of the tumor suppressor gene NF2 The NF2 gene product, Merlin, has no intrinsic catalytic activity; its tumor suppressor function is mediated through the proteins with which it interacts. We used proximity biotinylation followed by mass spectrometry and direct binding assays to identify proteins that associated with wild-type and various mutant forms of Merlin in immortalized Schwann cells. We defined a set of 52 proteins in close proximity to wild-type Merlin. Most of the Merlin-proximal proteins were components of cell junctional signaling complexes, suggesting that additional potential interaction partners may exist in adherens junctions, tight junctions, and focal adhesions. With mutant forms of Merlin that cannot bind to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) or that constitutively adopt a closed conformation, we confirmed a critical role for PIP2 binding in Merlin function and identified a large cohort of proteins that specifically interacted with Merlin in the closed conformation. Among these proteins, we identified a previously unreported Merlin-binding protein, apoptosis-stimulated p53 protein 2 (ASPP2, also called Tp53bp2), that bound to closed-conformation Merlin predominately through the FERM domain. Our results demonstrate that Merlin is a component of cell junctional mechanosensing complexes and defines a specific set of proteins through which it acts.
PXD011452	31015322	Quantitative Analyses Reveal Novel Roles for N-Glycosylation in a Major Enteric Bacterial Pathogen. 	Quantitative analyses reveal novel roles for N-glycosylation in a major enteric bacterial pathogen	Campylobacter, Glycosylation, TMT, quantitative proteomics	In eukaryotes, glycosylation plays a role in proteome stability, protein quality control, and modulating protein function; however, similar studies in bacteria are lacking. Here, we investigate the roles of general protein glycosylation systems in bacteria using the enteropathogen Campylobacter jejuni as a well-defined example. By using a quantitative proteomic strategy, we were able to monitor changes in the C. jejuni proteome when glycosylation is disrupted. We demonstrate that in C. jejuni, N-glycosylation is essential to maintain proteome stability and protein quality control. These findings guided us to investigate the role of N-glycosylation in modulating bacterial cellular activities. In glycosylation-deficient C. jejuni, the multidrug efflux pump and electron transport pathways were significantly impaired. We demonstrate that in vivo, fully glycosylation-deficient C. jejuni bacteria were unable to colonize its natural avian host. These results provide the first evidence of a link between proteome stability and complex functions via a bacterial general glycosylation system.IMPORTANCE Advances in genomics and mass spectrometry have revealed several types of glycosylation systems in bacteria. However, why bacterial proteins are modified remains poorly defined. Here, we investigated the role of general N-linked glycosylation in a major food poisoning bacterium, Campylobacter jejuni The aim of this study is to delineate the direct and indirect effects caused by disrupting this posttranslational modification. To achieve this, we employed a quantitative proteomic strategy to monitor alterations in the C. jejuni proteome. Our quantitative proteomic results linked general protein N-glycosylation to maintaining proteome stability. Functional analyses revealed novel roles for bacterial N-glycosylation in modulating multidrug efflux pump, enhancing nitrate reduction activity, and promoting host-microbe interaction. This work provides insights on the importance of general glycosylation in proteins in maintaining bacterial physiology, thus expanding our knowledge of the emergence of posttranslational modification in bacteria.
PXD009178	31015428	Vps11 and Vps18 of Vps-C membrane traffic complexes are E3 ubiquitin ligases and fine-tune signalling. 	Modification of the ubiquitinome by Vps11 and Vps18	LC-MS, PTMscan, Ubiquitin, Vps11, Vps18	In response to extracellular signals, many signalling proteins associated with the plasma membrane are sorted into endosomes. This involves endosomal fusion, which depends on the complexes HOPS and CORVET. Whether and how their subunits themselves modulate signal transduction is unknown. We show that Vps11 and Vps18 (Vps11/18), two common subunits of the HOPS/CORVET complexes, are E3 ubiquitin ligases. Upon overexpression of Vps11/Vps18, we find perturbations of ubiquitination in signal transduction pathways. We specifically demonstrate that Vps11/18 regulate several signalling factors and pathways, including Wnt, estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), and NFkappaB. For ERalpha, we demonstrate that the Vps11/18-mediated ubiquitination of the scaffold protein PELP1 impairs the activation of ERalpha by c-Src. Thus, proteins involved in membrane traffic, in addition to performing their well-described role in endosomal fusion, fine-tune signalling in several different ways, including through ubiquitination.
PXD013154	31015445	PIM kinases facilitate lentiviral evasion from SAMHD1 restriction via Vpx phosphorylation. 	PIM kinases facilitate lentiviral evasion from SAMHD1 restriction via Vpx phosphorylation	HIV-2, PIM3, Vpx	Lentiviruses have evolved to acquire an auxiliary protein Vpx to counteract the intrinsic host restriction factor SAMHD1. Although Vpx is phosphorylated, it remains unclear whether such phosphorylation indeed regulates its activity toward SAMHD1. Here we identify the PIM family of serine/threonine protein kinases as the factors responsible for the phosphorylation of Vpx and the promotion of Vpx-mediated SAMHD1 counteraction. Integrated proteomics and subsequent functional analysis reveal that PIM family kinases, PIM1 and PIM3, phosphorylate HIV-2 Vpx at Ser13 and stabilize the interaction of Vpx with SAMHD1 thereby promoting ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of SAMHD1. Inhibition of the PIM kinases promotes the antiviral activity of SAMHD1, ultimately reducing viral replication. Our results highlight a new mode of virus-host cell interaction in which host PIM kinases facilitate promotion of viral infectivity by counteracting the host antiviral system, and suggest a novel therapeutic strategy involving restoration of SAMHD1-mediated antiviral response.
PXD012134	31016214	Dataset of growth cone-enriched lipidome and proteome of embryonic to early postnatal mouse brain. 	Growth cone-enriched proteome of embryonic to early postnatal mouse brain	growth cone, mouse brain, sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation	A growth cone is a part of a neuron considered as a hub for axon growth, motility and guidance functions. Growth cones are thought to play a critical role during development of neurons. Growth cones also play a significant role in adult regeneration. Here, we present a dataset on the lipid and protein profiling of the growth cone-enriched fractions derived from C57BL/6J mice forebrains of developmental stage: E18, P0, P3, P6, and P9. For comparison, we analyzed non-growth cone membranes from the same samples. Lipid data is available at the Metabolomics Workbench [http://www.metabolomicsworkbench.org (Project ID: PR000746)]. Protein data is available at Proteomics Identifications (PRIDE) partner repository (PRIDE identifier PXD012134).
PXD012752	31017792	Comprehensive Study of the Proteome and Transcriptome of the Venom of the Most Venomous European Viper: Discovery of a New Subclass of Ancestral Snake Venom Metalloproteinase Precursor-Derived Proteins. 	Vipera ammodytes ammodytes venom proteomics	2-DE, Vipera ammodytes ammodytes, snake venom	The nose-horned viper, its nominotypical subspecies Vipera ammodytes ammodytes ( Vaa), in particular, is, medically, one of the most relevant snakes in Europe. The local and systemic clinical manifestations of poisoning by the venom of this snake are the result of the pathophysiological effects inflicted by enzymatic and nonenzymatic venom components acting, most prominently, on the blood, cardiovascular, and nerve systems. This venom is a very complex mixture of pharmacologically active proteins and peptides. To help improve the current antivenom therapy toward higher specificity and efficiency and to assist drug discovery, we have constructed, by combining transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, the most comprehensive library yet of the Vaa venom proteins and peptides. Sequence analysis of the venom gland cDNA library has revealed the presence of messages encoding 12 types of polypeptide precursors. The most abundant are those for metalloproteinase inhibitors (MPis), bradykinin-potentiating peptides (BPPs), and natriuretic peptides (NPs) (all three on a single precursor), snake C-type lectin-like proteins (snaclecs), serine proteases (SVSPs), P-II and P-III metalloproteinases (SVMPs), secreted phospholipases A2 (sPLA2s), and disintegrins (Dis). These constitute >88% of the venom transcriptome. At the protein level, 57 venom proteins belonging to 16 different protein families have been identified and, with SVSPs, sPLA2s, snaclecs, and SVMPs, comprise ~80% of all venom proteins. Peptides detected in the venom include NPs, BPPs, and inhibitors of SVSPs and SVMPs. Of particular interest, a transcript coding for a protein similar to P-III SVMPs but lacking the MP domain was also found at the protein level in the venom. The existence of such proteins, also supported by finding similar venom gland transcripts in related snake species, has been demonstrated for the first time, justifying the proposal of a new P-IIIe subclass of ancestral SVMP precursor-derived proteins.
PXD013211	31018136	Modeling Glycan Processing Reveals Golgi-Enzyme Homeostasis upon Trafficking Defects and Cellular Differentiation. 	Modelling glycan processing reveals Golgi-enzyme homeostasis upon trafficking defects and cellular differentiation	COG complex, Golgi apparatus, MSCs, Markov Chain Monte Carlo, glycan processing	The decoration of proteins by carbohydrates is essential for eukaryotic life yet heterogeneous due to a lack of biosynthetic templates. This complex carbohydrate mixture-the glycan profile-is generated in the compartmentalized Golgi, in which level and localization of glycosylation enzymes are key determinants. Here, we develop and validate a computational model for glycan biosynthesis to probe how the biosynthetic machinery creates different glycan profiles. We combined stochastic modeling with Bayesian fitting that enables rigorous comparison to experimental data despite starting with uncertain initial parameters. This is an important development in the field of glycan modeling, which revealed biological insights about the glycosylation machinery in altered cellular states. We experimentally validated changes in N-linked glycan-modifying enzymes in cells with perturbed intra-Golgi-enzyme sorting and the predicted glycan-branching activity during osteogenesis. Our model can provide detailed information on altered biosynthetic paths, with potential for advancing treatments for glycosylation-related diseases and glyco-engineering of cells.
PXD012761	31018495	Plant Cell Wall Proteomics: A Focus on Monocot Species, Brachypodium distachyon, Saccharum spp. and Oryza sativa. 	Plant Cell Wall Proteomics: A Focus on Monocot Species, Brachypodium distachyon, Saccharum spp. and Oryza sativa	plant cell wall/proteome/monocot/stiff brome/rice/sugarcane	Plant cell walls mostly comprise polysaccharides and proteins. The composition of monocots' primary cell walls differs from that of dicots walls with respect to the type of hemicelluloses, the reduction of pectin abundance and the presence of aromatic molecules. Cell wall proteins (CWPs) differ among plant species, and their distribution within functional classes varies according to cell types, organs, developmental stages and/or environmental conditions. In this review, we go deeper into the findings of cell wall proteomics in monocot species and make a comparative analysis of the CWPs identified, considering their predicted functions, the organs analyzed, the plant developmental stage and their possible use as targets for biofuel production. Arabidopsis thaliana CWPs were considered as a reference to allow comparisons among different monocots, i.e., Brachypodium distachyon, Saccharum spp. and Oryza sativa. Altogether, 1159 CWPs have been acknowledged, and specificities and similarities are discussed. In particular, a search for A. thaliana homologs of CWPs identified so far in monocots allows the definition of monocot CWPs characteristics. Finally, the analysis of monocot CWPs appears to be a powerful tool for identifying candidate proteins of interest for tailoring cell walls to increase biomass yield of transformation for second-generation biofuels production.
PXD013479	31018578	Profiling of Seed Proteome in Pea (Pisum sativum L.) Lines Characterized with High and Low Responsivity to Combined Inoculation with Nodule Bacteria and Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi. 	Seed proteome of pea lines with different responsivity to simultaneous inoculation with arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi and rhizobia	LC-MS, arbuscular mycorrhiza, beneficial soil microorganisms, combined inoculation, inoculation efficiency, pea (Pisum sativum L.), rhizobial symbiosis, seed proteome	Legume crops represent the major source of food protein and contribute to human nutrition and animal feeding. An essential improvement of their productivity can be achieved by symbiosis with beneficial soil microorganisms-rhizobia (Rh) and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. The efficiency of these interactions depends on plant genotype. Recently, we have shown that, after simultaneous inoculation with Rh and AM, the productivity gain of pea (Pisum sativum L) line K-8274, characterized by high efficiency of interaction with soil microorganisms (EIBSM), was higher in comparison to a low-EIBSM line K-3358. However, the molecular mechanisms behind this effect are still uncharacterized. Therefore, here, we address the alterations in pea seed proteome, underlying the symbiosis-related productivity gain, and identify 111 differentially expressed proteins in the two lines. The high-EIBSM line K-8274 responded to inoculation by prolongation of seed maturation, manifested by up-regulation of proteins involved in cellular respiration, protein biosynthesis, and down-regulation of late-embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins. In contrast, the low-EIBSM line K-3358 demonstrated lower levels of the proteins, related to cell metabolism. Thus, we propose that the EIBSM trait is linked to prolongation of seed filling that needs to be taken into account in pulse crop breeding programs. The raw data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013479.
PXD011431	31018989	Insulin Induces Microtubule Stabilization and Regulates the Microtubule Plus-end Tracking Protein Network in Adipocytes. 	Insulin Induces Microtubule Stabilization and Regulates the Microtubule Plus-End Tracking Protein Network in Adipocytes	CLASP2 G2L1 Insulin Microtubules	Insulin-stimulated glucose uptake is known to involve microtubules, although the function of microtubules and the microtubule-regulating proteins involved in insulin action are poorly understood. CLASP2, a plus-end tracking microtubule-associated protein (+TIP) that controls microtubule dynamics, was recently implicated as the first +TIP associated with insulin-regulated glucose uptake. Here, using protein-specific targeted quantitative phosphoproteomics within 3T3-L1 adipocytes, we discovered that insulin regulates phosphorylation of the CLASP2 network members G2L1, MARK2, CLIP2, AGAP3, and CKAP5 as well as EB1, revealing the existence of a previously unknown microtubule-associated protein system that responds to insulin. To further investigate, G2L1 interactome studies within 3T3-L1 adipocytes revealed that G2L1 coimmunoprecipitates CLASP2 and CLIP2 as well as the master integrators of +TIP assembly, the end binding (EB) proteins. Live-cell total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy in adipocytes revealed G2L1 and CLASP2 colocalize on microtubule plus-ends. We found that although insulin increases the number of CLASP2-containing plus-ends, insulin treatment simultaneously decreases CLASP2-containing plus-end velocity. In addition, we discovered that insulin stimulates redistribution of CLASP2 and G2L1 from exclusive plus-end tracking to "trailing" behind the growing tip of the microtubule. Insulin treatment increases alpha-tubulin Lysine 40 acetylation, a mechanism that was observed to be regulated by a counterbalance between GSK3 and mTOR, and led to microtubule stabilization. Our studies introduce insulin-stimulated microtubule stabilization and plus-end trailing of +TIPs as new modes of insulin action and reveal the likelihood that a network of microtubule-associated proteins synergize to coordinate insulin-regulated microtubule dynamics.
PXD011482	31019427	Deep undepleted human serum proteome profiling toward biomarker discovery for Alzheimer's disease. 	Deep undepleted human serum proteome profiling toward biomarker discovery for Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, biomarker, human blood, plasma, serum, tandem mass tag	BACKGROUND: Blood-based protein measurement is a routine practice for detecting biomarkers in human disease. Comprehensive profiling of blood/plasma/serum proteome is a challenge due to an extremely large dynamic range, as exemplified by a small subset of highly abundant proteins. Antibody-based depletion of these abundant proteins alleviates the problem but introduces experimental variations. We aimed to establish a method for direct profiling of undepleted human serum and apply the method toward biomarker discovery for Alzheimer's disease (AD), as AD is the most common form of dementia without available blood-based biomarkers in clinic. METHODS: We present an ultra-deep analysis of undepleted human serum proteome by combining the latest 11-plex tandem-mass-tag (TMT) labeling, exhaustive two-dimensional liquid chromatography (LC/LC) fractionation (the 1st LC: 3 h for 180 fractions, and the 2nd LC: 3 h gradient per fraction), coupled with high resolution tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). AD (n = 6) and control (n = 5) sera were analyzed in this pilot study. In addition, we implemented a multiplexed targeted LC-MS3 method (TOMAHAQ) for the validation of selected target proteins. RESULTS: The TMT-LC/LC-MS/MS platform is capable of analyzing 4826 protein components (4368 genes), covering at least 6 orders of magnitude in dynamic range, representing one of the deepest serum proteome analysis. We defined intra- and inter- group variability in the AD and control groups. Statistical analysis revealed differentially expressed proteins in AD (26 decreased and 4 increased). Notably, these altered proteins are enriched in the known pathways of mitochondria, fatty acid beta oxidation, and AGE/RAGE. Finally, we set up a TOMAHAQ method to confirm the decrease of PCK2 and AK2 in our AD samples. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show an ultra-deep serum discovery study by TMT-LC/LC-MS/MS, and a validation experiment by TOMAHAQ targeted LC-MS3. The MS-based discovery and validation methods are of general use for biomarker discovery from complex biofluids (e.g. serum proteome). This pilot study also identified deregulated proteins, in particular proteins associated with mitochondrial function in the AD serum samples. These proteins may serve as novel AD candidate biomarkers.
PXD012178	31019994	Novel CSF biomarkers in genetic frontotemporal dementia identified by proteomics. 	Identification of novel CSF biomarkers in GRN-associated frontotemporal dementia by proteomics	Frontotemporal dementia, biomarkers, progranulin	OBJECTIVE: To identify novel CSF biomarkers in GRN-associated frontotemporal dementia (FTD) by proteomics using mass spectrometry (MS). METHODS: Unbiased MS was applied to CSF samples from 19 presymptomatic and 9 symptomatic GRN mutation carriers and 24 noncarriers. Protein abundances were compared between these groups. Proteins were then selected for validation if identified by >=4 peptides and if fold change was <=0.5 or >=2.0. Validation and absolute quantification by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), a high-resolution targeted MS method, was performed on an international cohort (n = 210) of presymptomatic and symptomatic GRN, C9orf72 and MAPT mutation carriers. RESULTS: Unbiased MS revealed 20 differentially abundant proteins between symptomatic mutation carriers and noncarriers and nine between symptomatic and presymptomatic carriers. Seven of these proteins fulfilled our criteria for validation. PRM analyses revealed that symptomatic GRN mutation carriers had significantly lower levels of neuronal pentraxin receptor (NPTXR), receptor-type tyrosine-protein phosphatase N2 (PTPRN2), neurosecretory protein VGF, chromogranin-A (CHGA), and V-set and transmembrane domain-containing protein 2B (VSTM2B) than presymptomatic carriers and noncarriers. Symptomatic C9orf72 mutation carriers had lower levels of NPTXR, PTPRN2, CHGA, and VSTM2B than noncarriers, while symptomatic MAPT mutation carriers had lower levels of NPTXR and CHGA than noncarriers. INTERPRETATION: We identified and validated five novel CSF biomarkers in GRN-associated FTD. Our results show that synaptic, secretory vesicle, and inflammatory proteins are dysregulated in the symptomatic stage and may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of genetic FTD. Further validation is needed to investigate their clinical applicability as diagnostic or monitoring biomarkers.
PXD010258	31021607	The Plethora of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme-Processed Peptides in Mouse Plasma. 	The Plethora of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Substrates in Mouse Plasma	Peptidomics	Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) converts angiotensin I into the potent vasoconstrictor angiotensin II, which regulates blood pressure. However, ACE activity is also essential for other physiological functions, presumably through processing of peptides unrelated to angiotensin. The goal of this study was to identify novel natural substrates and products of ACE through a series of mass-spectrometric experiments. This included comparing the ACE-treated and untreated plasma peptidomes of ACE-knockout (KO) mice, validation with select synthetic peptides, and a quantitative in vivo study of ACE substrates in mice with distinct genetic ACE backgrounds. In total, 244 natural peptides were identified ex vivo as possible substrates or products of ACE, demonstrating high promiscuity of the enzyme. ACE prefers to cleave substrates with Phe or Leu at the C-terminal P2' position and Gly in the P6 position. Pro in P1' and Iso in P1 are typical residues in peptides that ACE does not cleave. Several of the novel ACE substrates are known to have biological activities, including a fragment of complement C3, the spasmogenic C3f, which was processed by ACE ex vivo and in vitro. Analyses with N-domain-inactive (NKO) ACE allowed clarification of domain selectivity toward substrates. The in vivo ACE-substrate concentrations in WT, transgenic ACE-KO, NKO, and CKO mice correspond well with the in vitro observations in that higher levels of the ACE substrates were observed when the processing domain was knocked out. This study highlights the vast extent of ACE promiscuity and provides a valuable platform for further investigations of ACE functionality.
PXD011088	31023727	Complexome Profiling Reveals Association of PPR Proteins with Ribosomes in the Mitochondria of Plants. 	PPR proteins in Arabidopsis mitoribosomes	Mitoribosomes, PPR proteins, complexome profiling, mitoribosomal subunits	Mitochondrial transcripts are subject to a wealth of processing mechanisms including cis- and trans-splicing events, as well as base modifications (RNA editing). Hundreds of proteins are required for these processes in plant mitochondria, many of which belong to the pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein superfamily. The structure, localization, and function of these proteins is only poorly understood. Here we present evidence that several PPR proteins are bound to mitoribosomes in plants. A novel complexome profiling strategy in combination with chemical crosslinking has been employed to systematically define the protein constituents of the large and the small ribosomal subunits in the mitochondria of plants. We identified more than 80 ribosomal proteins, which include several PPR proteins and other non-conventional ribosomal proteins. These findings reveal a potential coupling of transcriptional and translational events in the mitochondria of plants. Furthermore, the data indicate an extremely high molecular mass of the "small" subunit, even exceeding that of the "large" subunit.
PXD012232	31024494	Response of Lactobacillus plantarum WCFS1 to the Gram-Negative Pathogen-Associated Quorum Sensing Molecule N-3-Oxododecanoyl Homoserine Lactone. 	Response of Lactobacillus plantarum WCSF1 to the Gram-negative pathogen-associated quorum sensing molecule N-3-oxododecanoyl homoserine lactone.	LC-MS, Lactobacillus sp., pressure lysis	The bacterial quorum sensing phenomenon has been well studied since its discovery and has traditionally been considered to include signaling pathways recognized exclusively within either Gram-positive or Gram-negative bacteria. These groups of bacteria synthesize structurally distinct signaling molecules to mediate quorum sensing, where Gram-positive bacteria traditionally utilize small autoinducing peptides (AIPs) and Gram-negatives use small molecules such as acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs). The structural differences between the types of signaling molecules have historically implied a lack of cross-talk among Gram-positive and Gram-negative quorum sensing systems. Recent investigations, however, have demonstrated the ability for AIPs and AHLs to be produced by non-canonical organisms, implying quorum sensing systems may be more universally recognized than previously hypothesized. With that in mind, our interests were piqued by the organisms Lactobacillus plantarum, a Gram-positive commensal probiotic known to participate in AIP-mediated quorum sensing, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a characterized Gram-negative pathogen whose virulence is in part controlled by AHL-mediated quorum sensing. Both health-related organisms are known to inhabit the human gut in various instances, both are characterized to elicit distinct effects on host immunity, and some studies hint at the putative ability of L. plantarum to degrade AHLs produced by P. aeruginosa. We therefore wanted to determine if L. plantarum cultures would respond to the addition of N-(3-oxododecanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (3OC12) from P. aeruginosa by analyzing changes on both the transcriptome and proteome over time. Based on the observed upregulation of various two-component systems, response regulators, and native quorum sensing related genes, the resulting data provide evidence of an AHL recognition and response by L. plantarum.
PXD008344	31024521	Brain Citrullination Patterns and T Cell Reactivity of Cerebrospinal Fluid-Derived CD4(+) T Cells in Multiple Sclerosis. 	Human brain LC-MS/MS -  Brain Citrullination Patterns and T Cell Reactivity of Cerebrospinal Fluid-Derived CD4+ T Cells in Multiple Sclerosis	(MBP), citrulli, human post mortem brain tissue, hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography HILIC, myelin basic protein, post-translational modification, pressure cycle technology (PCT)	Immune responses to citrullinated peptides have been described in autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and multiple sclerosis (MS). We investigated the post-translational modification (PTM), arginine to citrulline, in brain tissue of MS patients and controls (C) by proteomics and subsequently the cellular immune response of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-infiltrating T cells to citrullinated and unmodified peptides of myelin basic protein (MBP). Using specifically adapted tissue extraction- and combined data interpretation protocols we could establish a map of citrullinated proteins by identifying more than 80 proteins with two or more citrullinated peptides in human brain tissue. We report many of them for the first time. For the already described citrullinated proteins MBP, GFAP, and vimentin, we could identify additional citrullinated sites. The number of modified proteins in MS white matter was higher than control tissue. Citrullinated peptides are considered neoepitopes that may trigger autoreactivity. We used newly identified epitopes and previously reported immunodominant myelin peptides in their citrullinated and non-citrullinated form to address the recognition of CSF-infiltrating CD4(+) T cells from 22 MS patients by measuring proliferation and IFN-gamma secretion. We did not detect marked responses to citrullinated peptides, but slightly more strongly to the non-modified version. Based on these data, we conclude that citrullination does not appear to be an important activating factor of a T cell response, but could be the consequence of an immune- or inflammatory response. Our approach allowed us to perform a deep proteome analysis and opens new technical possibilities to analyze complex PTM patterns on minute quantities of rare tissue samples.
PXD010364	31027199	Preeclampsia is Associated with Sex-Specific Transcriptional and Proteomic Changes in Fetal Erythroid Cells. 	Preeclampsia causes sex-specific transcriptional and proteomic changes in foetal erythroid cells	Erythropoiesis, Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells, Preeclampsia, Q Exactive HF, TMT, Umbilical cord blood	Preeclampsia (PE) has been associated with placental dysfunction, resulting in fetal hypoxia, accelerated erythropoiesis, and increased erythroblast count in the umbilical cord blood (UCB). Although the detailed effects remain unknown, placental dysfunction can also cause inflammation, nutritional, and oxidative stress in the fetus that can affect erythropoiesis. Here, we compared the expression of surface adhesion molecules and the erythroid differentiation capacity of UCB hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs), UCB erythroid profiles along with the transcriptome and proteome of these cells between male and female fetuses from PE and normotensive pregnancies. While no significant differences were observed in UCB HSPC migration/homing and in vitro erythroid colony differentiation, the UCB HSPC transcriptome and the proteomic profile of the in vitro differentiated erythroid cells differed between PE vs. normotensive samples. Accordingly, despite the absence of significant differences in the UCB erythroid populations in male or female fetuses from PE or normotensive pregnancies, transcriptional changes were observed during erythropoiesis, particularly affecting male fetuses. Pathway analysis suggested deregulation in the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1/AMP-activated protein kinase (mTORC1/AMPK) signaling pathways controlling cell cycle, differentiation, and protein synthesis. These results associate PE with transcriptional and proteomic changes in fetal HSPCs and erythroid cells that may underlie the higher erythroblast count in the UCB in PE.
PXD010477	31027772	Proteomic analysis of the food spoiler Pseudomonas fluorescens ITEM 17298 reveals the antibiofilm activity of the pepsin-digested bovine lactoferrin. 	Proteome response of biofilm forming Pseudomonas fluorescens ITEM 17298 to pepsin-digested bovine lactoferrin under two incubation temperatures	GeLC-MS/MS, Metaproteomics, antimicrobial peptides, biofilm, food spoilers, genomics, motility, pigments, pseudomonads	Pseudomonas fluorescens is implicated in food spoilage especially under cold storage. Due to its ability to form biofilm P. fluorescens resists to common disinfection strategies increasing its persistance especially across fresh food chain. Biofilm formation is promoted by several environmental stimuli, but gene expression and protein changes involved in this lifestyle are poorly investigated in this species. In this work a comparative proteomic analysis was performed to investigate metabolic pathways of underlying biofilm formation of the blue cheese pigmenting P. fluorescens ITEM 17298 after incubation at 15 and 30 degreesC; the same methodology was also applied to reveal the effects of the bovine lactoferrin hydrolysate (HLF) used as antibiofilm agent. At 15 degreesC biofilm biomass and motility increased, putatively sustained by the induction of regulators (PleD, AlgB, CsrA/RsmA) involved in these phenotypic traits. In addition, for the first time, TycC and GbrS, correlated to indigoidine synthesis (blue pigment), were detected and identified. An increase of virulence factors amounts (leukotoxin and PROKKA_04561) were instead found at 30 degreesC. HLF caused a significant reduction in biofilm biomass; indeed, at 15 degreesC HLF repressed PleD, TycC and GbrS and induced the negative regulators of alginate biosynthesis; at both temperatures induced the cyclic-di-GMP-binding biofilm dispersal mediator (PROKKA_02061). In conclusion, in this work protein determinats of biofilm formation were revelead in ITEM 17298 under the low temperature; the synthesis of these latter were inhibited by HLF confirming its possible exploitation as antibiofilm agent for biotechnological applications in cold stored foods.
PXD011276	31028944	The synovial fluid proteome differentiates between septic and nonseptic articular pathologies. 	The Synovial Fluid Proteome Differentiates between Septic and Nonseptic Articular Pathologies	Synovial fluid, sepsis	Articular conditions are common in horses and can result in loss of function, chronic pain and/or inability to work. Common conditions include osteoarthritis, osteochondrosis and synovial sepsis, which can be life-threatening, but despite the high clinical prevalence of these conditions, rapid and specific diagnosis, monitoring and prognostication remains a challenge for practicing veterinarians. Synovial fluid from a range of arthropathies was enriched for low abundance proteins using combinatorial peptide ligand ProteoMiner(TM) beads and analysed via liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Changes in protein abundances were analysed using label-free quantification. Principle component analysis of differentially expressed proteins identified groupings associated with joint pathology. Findings were validated using ELISA. Lactotransferrin (LTF) abundance was increased in sepsis compared to all other groups and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 6 (IGFBP6) abundance decreased in sepsis compared to other disease groups. Pathway analysis identified upregulation of the complement system in synovial joint sepsis and the downregulation of eukaryotic translation initiation factors and mTOR signalling pathways in both OA and OC compared to the healthy group. Overall, we have identified a catalogue of proteins which we propose to be involved in osteoarthritis, osteochondrosis and synovial sepsis pathogenesis. SIGNIFICANCE: Osteoarthritis, osteochondrosis and synovial sepsis, which can be life-threatening, are common articular conditions in which rapid and specific diagnosis, monitoring and prognostication remains a challenge for practicing veterinarians. This study has identified that the equine synovial fluid proteome exhibits distinctive profile changes between osteoarthritis, osteochondrosis, synovial sepsis and healthy joints. Elevated synovial abundance of lactotransferrin and decreased insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 6 were both found to distinguish synovial sepsis from all other study groups. Thus, these protein markers may have a future role in clinical practice to enable an earlier and reliable diagnosis of synovial sepsis.
PXD009349	31029164	Metaproteome analysis reveals that syntrophy, competition, and phage-host interaction shape microbial communities in biogas plants. 	Biogas Plant Survey Magdeburg 2014-2016	Anaerobic Digestion Model 1, MetaProteomeAnalyzer, anaerobic digestion, bacteriophages, biogas process, competition, host-phage interactions, metaproteomics, microbial communities, syntrophy	BACKGROUND: In biogas plants, complex microbial communities produce methane and carbon dioxide by anaerobic digestion of biomass. For the characterization of the microbial functional networks, samples of 11 reactors were analyzed using a high-resolution metaproteomics pipeline. RESULTS: Examined methanogenesis archaeal communities were either mixotrophic or strictly hydrogenotrophic in syntrophy with bacterial acetate oxidizers. Mapping of identified metaproteins with process steps described by the Anaerobic Digestion Model 1 confirmed its main assumptions and also proposed some extensions such as syntrophic acetate oxidation or fermentation of alcohols. Results indicate that the microbial communities were shaped by syntrophy as well as competition and phage-host interactions causing cell lysis. For the families Bacillaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Clostridiaceae, the number of phages exceeded up to 20-fold the number of host cells. CONCLUSION: Phage-induced cell lysis might slow down the conversion of substrates to biogas, though, it could support the growth of auxotrophic microbes by cycling of nutrients.
PXD010242	31029696	Reduced insulin action in muscle of high fat diet rats over the diurnal cycle is not associated with defective insulin signaling. 	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics of the diurnal cycle in chow and high fat high sucrose feed rats	high fat high sucrose diet, insulin signaling, phosphoproteomics	OBJECTIVE: Energy metabolism and insulin action follow a diurnal rhythm. It is therefore important that investigations into dysregulation of these pathways are relevant to the physiology of this diurnal rhythm. METHODS: We examined glucose uptake, markers of insulin action, and the phosphorylation of insulin signaling intermediates in muscle of chow and high fat, high sucrose (HFHS) diet-fed rats over the normal diurnal cycle. RESULTS: HFHS animals displayed hyperinsulinemia but had reduced systemic glucose disposal and lower muscle glucose uptake during the feeding period. Analysis of gene expression, enzyme activity, protein abundance and phosphorylation revealed a clear diurnal regulation of substrate oxidation pathways with no difference in Akt signaling in muscle. Transfection of a constitutively active Akt2 into the muscle of HFHS rats did not rescue diet-induced reductions in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. CONCLUSIONS: These studies suggest that reduced glucose uptake in muscle during the diurnal cycle induced by short-term HFHS-feeding is not the result of reduced insulin signaling.
PXD012627	31031198	Reductional Meiosis I Chromosome Segregation Is Established by Coordination of Key Meiotic Kinases. 	Reductional meiosis I chromosome segregation is established by coordination of key meiotic kinases	LC-MS, Meiosis, chromosome segregation, kinases	Meiosis produces gametes through a specialized, two-step cell division, which is highly error prone in humans. Reductional meiosis I, where maternal and paternal chromosomes (homologs) segregate, is followed by equational meiosis II, where sister chromatids separate. Uniquely during meiosis I, sister kinetochores are monooriented and pericentromeric cohesin is protected. Here, we demonstrate that these key adaptations for reductional chromosome segregation are achieved through separable control of multiple kinases by the meiosis-I-specific budding yeast Spo13 protein. Recruitment of Polo kinase to kinetochores directs monoorientation, while independently, cohesin protection is achieved by containing the effects of cohesin kinases. Therefore, reductional chromosome segregation, the defining feature of meiosis, is established by multifaceted kinase control by a master regulator. The recent identification of Spo13 orthologs, fission yeast Moa1 and mouse MEIKIN, suggests that kinase coordination by a meiosis I regulator may be a general feature in the establishment of reductional chromosome segregation.
PXD009817	31031730	Campylobacter jejuni Demonstrates Conserved Proteomic and Transcriptomic Responses When Co-cultured With Human INT 407 and Caco-2 Epithelial Cells. 	Proteomics of campylobacter exposed to host Caco-2 and INT407 intestinal cells	campylobacter, intestine	Major foodborne bacterial pathogens, such as Campylobacter jejuni, have devised complex strategies to establish and foster intestinal infections. For more than two decades, researchers have used immortalized cell lines derived from human intestinal tissue to dissect C. jejuni-host cell interactions. Known from these studies is that C. jejuni virulence is multifactorial, requiring a coordinated response to produce virulence factors that facilitate host cell interactions. This study was initiated to identify C. jejuni proteins that contribute to adaptation to the host cell environment and cellular invasion. We demonstrated that C. jejuni responds to INT 407 and Caco-2 cells in a similar fashion at the cellular and molecular levels. Active protein synthesis was found to be required for C. jejuni to maximally invade these host cells. Proteomic and transcriptomic approaches were then used to define the protein and gene expression profiles of C. jejuni co-cultured with cells. By focusing on those genes showing increased expression by C. jejuni when co-cultured with epithelial cells, we discovered that C. jejuni quickly adapts to co-culture with epithelial cells by synthesizing gene products that enable it to acquire specific amino acids for growth, scavenge for inorganic molecules including iron, resist reactive oxygen/nitrogen species, and promote host cell interactions. Based on these findings, we selected a subset of the genes involved in chemotaxis and the regulation of flagellar assembly and generated C. jejuni deletion mutants for phenotypic analysis. Binding and internalization assays revealed significant differences in the interaction of C. jejuni chemotaxis and flagellar regulatory mutants. The identification of genes involved in C. jejuni adaptation to culture with host cells provides new insights into the infection process.
PXD012806	31036455	Proteomics of diphtheria toxoid vaccines reveals multiple proteins that are immunogenic and may contribute to protection of humans against Corynebacterium diphtheriae. 	Proteomics of diphtheria toxoid vaccines reveals multiple proteins that are immunogenic and may contribute to protection of humans against Corynebacterium diphtheriae	coryebacteria, exoproteome, secretome, vaccination	Introduced for mass immunization in the 1920s, vaccines against diphtheria are among the oldest and safest vaccines known. The basic principle of their production is the inactivation of purified diphtheria toxin by formaldehyde cross-linking, which converts the potentially fatal toxin in a completely harmless protein aggregate, which is still immunogenic. Since in addition to diphtheria toxin also other proteins may be secreted by Corynebacterium diphtheriae during cultivation, we assumed that diphtheria toxoid might not be the only component present in the vaccine. To address this question, we established a protocol to reverse formaldehyde cross-linking and carried out mass spectrometric analyses. Different secreted, membrane-associated and cytoplasmic proteins of C. diphtheriae were detected in several vaccine preparations from across the world. Based on these results, bioinformatics and Western blot analyses were applied to characterize if these proteins are immunogenic and may therefore support protection against C. diphtheriae. In frame of this study, we could show that the C. diphtheriae toxoid vaccines induce antibodies against different C. diphtheriae proteins and against diphtheria toxin secreted by Corynebacterium ulcerans, an emerging pathogen which is outnumbering C. diphtheriae as cause of diphtheria-like illness in Western Europe.
PXD011743	31036632	Molecular insights into an ancient form of Paget's disease of bone. 	Molecular insights into an ancient form of Paget disease of bone	SQSTM1, osteosarcoma, p62, paget disease, paleoproteomics	Paget's disease of bone (PDB) is a chronic skeletal disorder that can affect one or several bones in individuals older than 55 y of age. PDB-like changes have been reported in archaeological remains as old as Roman, although accurate diagnosis and natural history of the disease is lacking. Six skeletons from a collection of 130 excavated at Norton Priory in the North West of England, which dates to medieval times, show atypical and extensive pathological changes resembling contemporary PDB affecting as many as 75% of individual skeletons. Disease prevalence in the remaining collection is high, at least 16% of adults, with age at death estimations as low as 35 y. Despite these atypical features, paleoproteomic analysis identified sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1) or p62, a protein central to the pathological milieu of PDB, as one of the few noncollagenous human sequences preserved in skeletal samples. Targeted proteomic analysis detected >60% of the ancient p62 primary sequence, with Western blotting indicating p62 abnormalities, including in dentition. Direct sequencing of ancient DNA excluded contemporary PDB-associated SQSTM1 mutations. Our observations indicate that the ancient p62 protein is likely modified within its C-terminal ubiquitin-associated domain. Ancient miRNAs were remarkably preserved in an osteosarcoma from a skeleton with extensive disease, with miR-16 expression consistent with that reported in contemporary PDB-associated bone tumors. Our work displays the use of proteomics to inform diagnosis of ancient diseases such as atypical PDB, which has unusual features presumably potentiated by yet-unidentified environmental or genetic factors.
PXD013398	31036713	TEFM regulates both transcription elongation and RNA processing in mitochondria. 	TEFM regulates both transcription elongation and RNA processing in mitochondria	RNA processing, mtDNA replication, transcription elongation	Regulation of replication and expression of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is essential for cellular energy conversion via oxidative phosphorylation. The mitochondrial transcription elongation factor (TEFM) has been proposed to regulate the switch between transcription termination for replication primer formation and processive, near genome-length transcription for mtDNA gene expression. Here, we report that Tefm is essential for mouse embryogenesis and that levels of promoter-distal mitochondrial transcripts are drastically reduced in conditional Tefm-knockout hearts. In contrast, the promoter-proximal transcripts are much increased in Tefm knockout mice, but they mostly terminate before the region where the switch from transcription to replication occurs, and consequently, de novo mtDNA replication is profoundly reduced. Unexpectedly, deep sequencing of RNA from Tefm knockouts revealed accumulation of unprocessed transcripts in addition to defective transcription elongation. Furthermore, a proximity-labeling (BioID) assay showed that TEFM interacts with multiple RNA processing factors. Our data demonstrate that TEFM acts as a general transcription elongation factor, necessary for both gene transcription and replication primer formation, and loss of TEFM affects RNA processing in mammalian mitochondria.
PXD011125	31036863	The interactome of a family of potential methyltransferases in HeLa cells. 	The interactome of a family of potential methyltransferases	GFP affinity purifications, METTL, interaction proteomics	Human methytransferase like proteins (METTL) are part of a large protein family characterized by the presence of binding domains for S-adenosyl methionine, a co-substrate for methylation reactions. Despite the fact that members of this protein family were shown or predicted to be DNA, RNA or protein methyltransferases, most METTL proteins are still poorly characterized. Identification of complexes in which these potential enzymes act could help to understand their function(s) and substrate specificities. Here we systematically studied interacting partners of METTL protein family members in HeLa cells using label-free quantitative mass spectrometry. We found that, surprisingly, many of the METTL proteins appear to function outside of stable complexes whereas others including METTL7B, METTL8 and METTL9 have high-confidence interaction partners. Our study is the first systematic and comprehensive overview of the interactome of METTL protein family that can provide a crucial resource for further studies of these potential novel methyltransferases.
PXD006504	31038352	Physiology, Metabolism, and Fossilization of Hot-Spring Filamentous Microbial Mats. 	Yellowstone National Park Mammoth Hot Spring-EDTA	Hot springs, ProteomeXchange project tag: Extreme Conditions (B/D-HPP), microbiome	The evolutionarily ancient Aquificales bacterium Sulfurihydrogenibium spp. dominates filamentous microbial mat communities in shallow, fast-flowing, and dysoxic hot-spring drainage systems around the world. In the present study, field observations of these fettuccini-like microbial mats at Mammoth Hot Springs in Yellowstone National Park are integrated with geology, geochemistry, hydrology, microscopy, and multi-omic molecular biology analyses. Strategic sampling of living filamentous mats along with the hot-spring CaCO3 (travertine) in which they are actively being entombed and fossilized has permitted the first direct linkage of Sulfurihydrogenibium spp. physiology and metabolism with the formation of distinct travertine streamer microbial biomarkers. Results indicate that, during chemoautotrophy and CO2 carbon fixation, the 87-98% Sulfurihydrogenibium-dominated mats utilize chaperons to facilitate enzyme stability and function. High-abundance transcripts and proteins for type IV pili and extracellular polymeric substances (EPSs) are consistent with their strong mucus-rich filaments tens of centimeters long that withstand hydrodynamic shear as they become encrusted by more than 5 mm of travertine per day. Their primary energy source is the oxidation of reduced sulfur (e.g., sulfide, sulfur, or thiosulfate) and the simultaneous uptake of extremely low concentrations of dissolved O2 facilitated by bd-type cytochromes. The formation of elevated travertine ridges permits the Sulfurihydrogenibium-dominated mats to create a shallow platform from which to access low levels of dissolved oxygen at the virtual exclusion of other microorganisms. These ridged travertine streamer microbial biomarkers are well preserved and create a robust fossil record of microbial physiological and metabolic activities in modern and ancient hot-spring ecosystems.
PXD010712	31038678	Altered Localization of Hybrid Incompatibility Proteins in Drosophila. 	The GFZF protein interactome in Drosophila melanogaster 0-12h old embryos	Drosophila melanogaster / embryos / GFZF / interactome	Understanding the molecular basis of hybrid incompatibilities is a fundamental pursuit in evolutionary genetics. In crosses between Drosophila melanogaster females and Drosophila simulans males, an interaction between at least three genes is necessary for hybrid male lethality: Hmr mel, Lhr sim, and gfzf sim. Although HMR and LHR physically bind each other and function together in a single complex, the connection between gfzf and either of these proteins remains mysterious. Here, we show that GFZF localizes to many regions of the genome in both D. melanogaster and D. simulans, including at telomeric retrotransposon repeats. We find that GFZF localization at telomeres is significantly different between these two species, reflecting the rapid evolution of telomeric retrotransposon copy number composition between the two species. Next, we show that GFZF and HMR normally do not colocalize in D. melanogaster. In interspecies hybrids, however, HMR shows extensive mis-localization to GFZF sites, thus uncovering a new molecular interaction between these hybrid incompatibility factors. We find that spreading of HMR to GFZF sites requires gfzf sim but not Lhr sim, suggesting distinct roles for these factors in the hybrid incompatibility. Finally, we find that overexpression of HMR and LHR within species is sufficient to mis-localize HMR to GFZF binding sites, indicating that HMR has a natural low affinity for GFZF sites. Together, these studies provide the first insights into the different properties of gfzf between D. melanogaster and D. simulans, and uncover a molecular interaction between gfzf and Hmr in the form of altered protein localization.
PXD013323	31038978	Comparative Proteomic Analysis Reveals That Chlorophyll Metabolism Contributes to Leaf Color Changes in Wucai ( Brassica campestris L.) Responding to Cold Acclimation. 	iTRAQ of Wucai (Brassica campestris L.)leaf color	Chlorophyll biosynthesis, Leaf color, Wucai, iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomics	Chlorophyll is a vital photosynthetic pigment that plays a key role in plant development, participating in light energy capture and energy conversion. In this study, a novel wucai ( Brassica campestris L.) germplasm with green outer leaves and yellow inner leaves at the adult stage (W7-2) was used to examine chlorophyll metabolism response to cold acclimation. A green leaf wucai genotype without leaf color changes named W7-1 was selected as the control to evaluate the chlorophyll metabolism changes of W7-2. Compared to W7-1, the contents of chlorophyll a (Chl a) and chlorophyll b (Chl b) in W7-2 were significantly reduced at five developmental stages (13, 21, 29, 37, and 45 days after planting (DAP)). An iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis was carried out at 21 and 29 DAP according to the leaf color changes in both of genotypes. 1409 proteins were identified, while 218 of them displayed differential accumulations between W7-2 and W7-1 during the two developmental stages. The differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) mainly assigned to chlorophyll biosynthesis, photosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, ribosome metabolism and posttranslational modification. Among these DEPs, NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (PORB) and Mg-protoporphyrin IX chelatase 1 (CHLI1) were the key enzymes participating in chlorophyll (Chl) biosynthesis, which was down-regulated at 21 DAP and up-regulated at 29 DAP in W7-2 compared with W7-1, respectively. The expression analysis of genes of three subunits of Mg-chelatase ( CHLI1, CHLD, and CHLH), Genomes Uncoupled 4 ( GUN4), and Thioredoxin ( TRX3) associated with chlorophyll metabolism also displayed significant down-regulation in W7-2. In particular, PORB showed significant up-regulation in W7-2, significantly affecting chlorophyll biosynthesis. Additionally, differences in chlorophyll metabolism between W7-2 and W7-1 were in terms of altered photosynthesis, carbohydrate, and energy metabolism. We found that the transcription levels of most photosynthesis proteins showed significantly lower levels, and the genes expression level, associated with carbohydrate and energy metabolism, were lower in W7-2 than in W7-1. Therefore, the present study results help understand the physiological and molecular mechanisms underlying leaf coloring responding to cold acclimation.
PXD012368	31039306	Removal of Interference MS/MS Spectra for Accurate Quantification in Isobaric Tag-Based Proteomics. 	iPSC-HDF proteome	iTRAQ	Rapid progress in mass spectrometry (MS) has made comprehensive analyses of the proteome possible, but accurate quantification remains challenging. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) is widely used as a tool to quantify proteins expressed in different cell types and various cellular conditions. The quantification precision of iTRAQ is quite high, but the accuracy dramatically decreases in the presence of interference peptides that are coeluted and coisolated with the target peptide. Here, we developed "removal of interference mixture MS/MS spectra (RiMS)" to improve the quantification accuracy of isobaric tag approaches. The presence of spectrum interference is judged by examining the overlap in the elution time of all scanned precursor ions. Removal of this interference decreased protein identification (11% loss) but improved quantification accuracy. Further, RiMS does not require any specialized equipment, such as MS(3) instruments or an additional ion separation mode. Finally, we demonstrated that RiMS can be used to quantitatively compare human-induced pluripotent stem cells and human dermal fibroblasts, as it revealed differential protein expressions that reflect the biological characteristics of the cells.
PXD013057	31039795	Multi-omics discovery of exome-derived neoantigens in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Multi-omics discovery of exome-derived neoantigens in hepatocellular carcinoma	HLA, HLA ligandomics, Hepatocellular carcinoma, immunoinformatics, immunotherapy, liver cance, multi-omics, neoantigen, next-generation sequencing, peptide prediction, personalized medicine	BACKGROUND: Although mutated HLA ligands are considered ideal cancer-specific immunotherapy targets, evidence for their presentation is lacking in hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Employing a unique multi-omics approach comprising a neoepitope identification pipeline, we assessed exome-derived mutations naturally presented as HLA class I ligands in HCCs. METHODS: In-depth multi-omics analyses included whole exome and transcriptome sequencing to define individual patient-specific search spaces of neoepitope candidates. Evidence for the natural presentation of mutated HLA ligands was investigated through an in silico pipeline integrating proteome and HLA ligandome profiling data. RESULTS: The approach was successfully validated in a state-of-the-art dataset from malignant melanoma, and despite multi-omics evidence for somatic mutations, mutated naturally presented HLA ligands remained elusive in HCCs. An analysis of extensive cancer datasets confirmed fundamental differences of tumor mutational burden in HCC and malignant melanoma, challenging the notion that exome-derived mutations contribute relevantly to the expectable neoepitope pool in malignancies with only few mutations. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that exome-derived mutated HLA ligands appear to be rarely presented in HCCs, inter alia resulting from a low mutational burden as compared to other malignancies such as malignant melanoma. Our results therefore demand widening the target scope for personalized immunotherapy beyond this limited range of mutated neoepitopes, particularly for malignancies with similar or lower mutational burden.
PXD011845	31040226	Hdac4 Interactions in Huntington's Disease Viewed Through the Prism of Multiomics. 	Hdac4 interactome in Huntington's Disease	AP-MS, Hdac4, Hdac5, interactome, mouse brain, striatum	Huntington's disease (HD) is a monogenic disorder, driven by the expansion of a trinucleotide (CAG) repeat within the huntingtin (Htt) gene and culminating in neuronal degeneration in the brain, predominantly in the striatum and cortex. Histone deacetylase 4 (Hdac4) was previously found to contribute to the disease progression, providing a potential therapeutic target. Hdac4 knockdown reduced accumulation of misfolded Htt protein and improved HD phenotypes. However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear, given its independence on deacetylase activity and the predominant cytoplasmic Hdac4 localization in the brain. Here, we undertook a multiomics approach to uncover the function of Hdac4 in the context of HD pathogenesis. We characterized the interactome of endogenous Hdac4 in brains of HD mouse models. Alterations in interactions were investigated in response to Htt polyQ length, comparing mice with normal (Q20) and disease (Q140) Htt, at both pre- and post-symptomatic ages (2 and 10 months, respectively). Parallel analyses for Hdac5, a related class IIa Hdac, highlighted the unique interaction network established by Hdac4. To validate and distinguish interactions specifically enhanced in an HD-vulnerable brain region, we next characterized endogenous Hdac4 interactions in dissected striata from this HD mouse series. Hdac4 associations were polyQ-dependent in the striatum, but not in the whole brain, particularly in symptomatic mice. Hdac5 interactions did not exhibit polyQ dependence. To identify which Hdac4 interactions and functions could participate in HD pathogenesis, we integrated our interactome with proteome and transcriptome data sets generated from the striata. We discovered an overlap in enriched functional classes with the Hdac4 interactome, particularly in vesicular trafficking and synaptic functions, and we further validated the Hdac4 interaction with the Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome Protein and SCAR Homolog (WASH) complex. This study expands the knowledge of Hdac4 regulation and functions in HD, adding to the understanding of the molecular underpinning of HD phenotypes.
PXD013140	31040271	The glycosylation design space for recombinant lysosomal replacement enzymes produced in CHO cells. 	The Glycosylation Design Space for Recombinant Lysosomal Replacement Enzymes Produced in CHO Cells	Glycoengineering, N-glycoproteomics, enzyme replacement therapy	Lysosomal replacement enzymes are essential therapeutic options for rare congenital lysosomal enzyme deficiencies, but enzymes in clinical use are only partially effective due to short circulatory half-life and inefficient biodistribution. Replacement enzymes are primarily taken up by cell surface glycan receptors, and glycan structures influence uptake, biodistribution, and circulation time. It has not been possible to design and systematically study effects of different glycan features. Here we present a comprehensive gene engineering screen in Chinese hamster ovary cells that enables production of lysosomal enzymes with N-glycans custom designed to affect key glycan features guiding cellular uptake and circulation. We demonstrate distinct circulation time and organ distribution of selected glycoforms of alpha-galactosidase A in a Fabry disease mouse model, and find that an alpha2-3 sialylated glycoform designed to eliminate uptake by the mannose 6-phosphate and mannose receptors exhibits improved circulation time and targeting to hard-to-reach organs such as heart. The developed design matrix and engineered CHO cell lines enables systematic studies towards improving enzyme replacement therapeutics.
PXD012702	31041561	A pathogenic CtBP1 missense mutation causes altered cofactor binding and transcriptional activity. 	A pathogenic CtBP1 missense mutation causes altered cofactor binding and transcriptional activity	CtBP1	We previously reported a pathogenic de novo p.R342W mutation in the transcriptional corepressor CTBP1 in four independent patients with neurodevelopmental disabilities [1]. Here, we report the clinical phenotypes of seven additional individuals with the same recurrent de novo CTBP1 mutation. Within this cohort, we identified consistent CtBP1-related phenotypes of intellectual disability, ataxia, hypotonia, and tooth enamel defects present in most patients. The R342W mutation in CtBP1 is located within a region implicated in a high affinity-binding cleft for CtBP-interacting proteins. Unbiased proteomic analysis demonstrated reduced interaction of several chromatin-modifying factors with the CtBP1 W342 mutant. Genome-wide transcriptome analysis in human glioblastoma cell lines expressing -CtBP1 R342 (wt) or W342 mutation revealed changes in the expression profiles of genes controlling multiple cellular processes. Patient-derived dermal fibroblasts were found to be more sensitive to apoptosis during acute glucose deprivation compared to controls. Glucose deprivation strongly activated the BH3-only pro-apoptotic gene NOXA, suggesting a link between enhanced cell death and NOXA expression in patient fibroblasts. Our results suggest that context-dependent relief of transcriptional repression of the CtBP1 mutant W342 allele may contribute to deregulation of apoptosis in target tissues of patients leading to neurodevelopmental phenotypes.
PXD009854	31042147	Structural plasticity of actin-spectrin membrane skeleton and functional role of actin and spectrin in axon degeneration. 	Structural plasticity of actin-spectrin membrane skeleton and functional role of actin and spectrin in axon degeneration	Axon Degeneration, phosphorylation	Axon degeneration sculpts neuronal connectivity patterns during development and is an early hallmark of several adult-onset neurodegenerative disorders. Substantial progress has been made in identifying effector mechanisms driving axon fragmentation, but less is known about the upstream signaling pathways that initiate this process. Here, we investigate the behavior of the actin-spectrin-based Membrane-associated Periodic Skeleton (MPS), and effects of actin and spectrin manipulations in sensory axon degeneration. We show that trophic deprivation (TD) of mouse sensory neurons causes a rapid disassembly of the axonal MPS, which occurs prior to protein loss and independently of caspase activation. Actin destabilization initiates TD-related retrograde signaling needed for degeneration; actin stabilization prevents MPS disassembly and retrograde signaling during TD. Depletion of betaII-spectrin, a key component of the MPS, suppresses retrograde signaling and protects axons against degeneration. These data demonstrate structural plasticity of the MPS and suggest its potential role in early steps of axon degeneration.
PXD013221	31042482	Promiscuous Targeting of Cellular Proteins by Vpr Drives Systems-Level Proteomic Remodeling in HIV-1 Infection. 	Massive Proteome Remodelling by HIV Vpr	HIV, TMT, VPR	HIV-1 encodes four "accessory proteins" (Vif, Vpr, Vpu, and Nef), dispensable for viral replication in vitro but essential for viral pathogenesis in vivo. Well characterized cellular targets have been associated with Vif, Vpu, and Nef, which counteract host restriction and promote viral replication. Conversely, although several substrates of Vpr have been described, their biological significance remains unclear. Here, we use complementary unbiased mass spectrometry-based approaches to demonstrate that Vpr is both necessary and sufficient for the DCAF1/DDB1/CUL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase-mediated degradation of at least 38 cellular proteins, causing systems-level changes to the cellular proteome. We therefore propose that promiscuous targeting of multiple host factors underpins complex Vpr-dependent cellular phenotypes and validate this in the case of G2/M cell cycle arrest. Our model explains how Vpr modulates so many cell biological processes and why the functional consequences of previously described Vpr targets, identified and studied in isolation, have proved elusive.
PXD010248	31042781	Protein expression profiling of plasma and lungs at different stages of metastatic development in a human triple negative breast cancer xenograft model. 	Protein expression profiling of serum and lungs at different stages of metastatic development in a human triple negative breast cancer xenograft model - Part 1	LCMS, Lung, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), mice, plasma	The main objective of this study was to identify single proteins or protein networks that might be used as diagnostic biomarkers or for therapeutic purposes by evaluating the protein expression profiling of plasma and lungs at different stages of metastatic development in a human triple negative MDA-MB-231 breast cancer xenograft model. MDA-MB-231 tumour cells were injected into the mammary fat pads on one side of the groin area. The mice were sacrificed day 19 (pre-metastases) and day 54 (metastases). Non-injected mice served as controls. Plasma was collected and lungs harvested for both immunohistochemistry and protein analysis. The most striking observation in plasma was the initial reduction in haptoglobin level at the pre-metastatic stage, to a following significant increase in haptoglobin level at the metastatic stage, with a more than 4000-fold increase from the pre-metastatic to the metastatic phase. A corresponding increase in haptoglobin level was also found in lung tissue after metastasis. Fibrinogen beta chain also had a similar change in expression level in plasma as haptoglobin, however not as prominent. There were also changes in plasma thrombospondin-4 and transferrin receptor protein 1 levels, from an increase at the pre-metastatic stage, to a significant fall when metastases were established. This suggests that especially changes in haptoglobin, but also fibrinogen beta chain, thrombospondin-4 and transferrin receptor protein 1 is indicative of metastasis, at least in this breast cancer model, and should be further evaluated as general breast cancer biomarkers.
PXD012456	31043434	Protein O-GlcNAcylation Is Essential for the Maintenance of Renal Energy Homeostasis and Function via Lipolysis during Fasting and Diabetes. 	Mice kidney cortex proteome	Mice kidney cortex, O-GlcNAcylation, Proximal tubule	BACKGROUND: Energy metabolism in proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTECs) is unique, because ATP production largely depends on lipolysis in both the fed and fasting states. Furthermore, disruption of renal lipolysis is involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic tubulopathy. Emerging evidence suggests that protein O-GlcNAcylation, an intracellular nutrient-sensing system, may regulate a number of metabolic pathways according to changes in nutritional status. Although O-GlcNAcylation in PTECs has been demonstrated experimentally, its precise role in lipolysis in PTECs is unclear. METHODS: To investigate the mechanism of renal lipolysis in PTECs-specifically, the role played by protein O-GlcNAcylation-we generated mice with PTECs deficient in O-GlcNAc transferase (Ogt). We analyzed their renal phenotypes during ad libitum feeding, after prolonged fasting, and after mice were fed a high-fat diet for 16 weeks to induce obesity and diabetes. RESULTS: Although PTEC-specific Ogt-deficient mice lacked a marked renal phenotype during ad libitum feeding, after fasting 48 hours, they developed Fanconi syndrome-like abnormalities, PTEC apoptosis, and lower rates of renal lipolysis and ATP production. Proteomic analysis suggested that farnesoid X receptor-dependent upregulation of carboxylesterase-1 is involved in O-GlcNAcylation's regulation of lipolysis in fasted PTECs. PTEC-specific Ogt-deficient mice with diabetes induced by a high-fat diet developed severe tubular cell damage and enhanced lipotoxicity. CONCLUSIONS: Protein O-GlcNAcylation is essential for renal lipolysis during prolonged fasting and offers PTECs significant protection against lipotoxicity in diabetes.
PXD009674	31043515	Photocatalytic Protein Damage by Silver Nanoparticles Circumvents Bacterial Stress Response and Multidrug Resistance. 	A novel bactericidal mechanism of silver nanoparticles as a catalyst	iTRAQ proteomics,AgNPs,E. coli	Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are known for their broad-spectrum antibacterial properties, especially against antibiotic-resistant bacteria. However, the bactericidal mechanism of AgNPs remains unclear. In this study, we found that the bactericidal ability of AgNPs is induced by light. In contrast to previous postulates, visible light is unable to trigger silver ion release from AgNPs or to promote AgNPs to induce reactive oxygen species (ROS) in Escherichia coli In fact, we revealed that light excited AgNPs to induce protein aggregation in a concentration-dependent manner in E. coli, indicating that the bactericidal ability of AgNPs relies on the light-catalyzed oxidation of cellular proteins via direct binding to proteins, which was verified by fluorescence spectra. AgNPs likely absorb the light energy and transfer it to the proteins, leading to the oxidation of proteins and thus promoting the death of the bacteria. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based proteomics revealed that the bacteria failed to develop effective resistance to the light-excited AgNPs. This direct physical mechanism is unlikely to be counteracted by any known drug resistance mechanisms of bacteria and therefore may serve as a last resort against drug resistance. This mechanism also provides a practical hint regarding the antimicrobial application of AgNPs-light exposure improves the efficacy of AgNPs.IMPORTANCE Although silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are well known for their antibacterial properties, the mechanism by which they kill bacterial cells remains a topic of debate. In this study, we uncovered the bactericidal mechanism of AgNPs, which is induced by light. We tested the efficacy of AgNPs against a panel of antimicrobial-resistant pathogens as well as Escherichia coli under conditions of light and darkness and revealed that light excited the AgNPs to promote protein aggregation within the bacterial cells. Our report makes a significant contribution to the literature because this mechanism bypasses microbial drug resistance mechanisms, thus presenting a viable option for the treatment of multidrug-resistant bacteria.
PXD006396	31043742	Proteomics reveals NNMT as a master metabolic regulator of cancer-associated fibroblasts. 	Proteomics reveals NNMT as a master metabolic regulator of cancer associated fibroblasts	Ovarian Cancer Proteomics Laser Microdissection	High-grade serous carcinoma has a poor prognosis, owing primarily to its early dissemination throughout the abdominal cavity. Genomic and proteomic approaches have provided snapshots of the proteogenomics of ovarian cancer(1,2), but a systematic examination of both the tumour and stromal compartments is critical in understanding ovarian cancer metastasis. Here we develop a label-free proteomic workflow to analyse as few as 5,000 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded cells microdissected from each compartment. The tumour proteome was stable during progression from in situ lesions to metastatic disease; however, the metastasis-associated stroma was characterized by a highly conserved proteomic signature, prominently including the methyltransferase nicotinamide N-methyltransferase (NNMT) and several of the proteins that it regulates. Stromal NNMT expression was necessary and sufficient for functional aspects of the cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) phenotype, including the expression of CAF markers and the secretion of cytokines and oncogenic extracellular matrix. Stromal NNMT expression supported ovarian cancer migration, proliferation and in vivo growth and metastasis. Expression of NNMT in CAFs led to depletion of S-adenosyl methionine and reduction in histone methylation associated with widespread gene expression changes in the tumour stroma. This work supports the use of ultra-low-input proteomics to identify candidate drivers of disease phenotypes. NNMT is a central, metabolic regulator of CAF differentiation and cancer progression in the stroma that may be therapeutically targeted.
PXD011377	31043746	A late Middle Pleistocene Denisovan mandible from the Tibetan Plateau. 	A late Middle Pleistocene Denisovan mandible from the Tibetan Plateau	Middle Pleistocene, Palaeoproteomics, ZooMS, hominin	Denisovans are members of a hominin group who are currently only known directly from fragmentary fossils, the genomes of which have been studied from a single site, Denisova Cave(1-3) in Siberia. They are also known indirectly from their genetic legacy through gene flow into several low-altitude East Asian populations(4,5) and high-altitude modern Tibetans(6). The lack of morphologically informative Denisovan fossils hinders our ability to connect geographically and temporally dispersed fossil hominins from Asia and to understand in a coherent manner their relation to recent Asian populations. This includes understanding the genetic adaptation of humans to the high-altitude Tibetan Plateau(7,8), which was inherited from the Denisovans. Here we report a Denisovan mandible, identified by ancient protein analysis(9,10), found on the Tibetan Plateau in Baishiya Karst Cave, Xiahe, Gansu, China. We determine the mandible to be at least 160 thousand years old through U-series dating of an adhering carbonate matrix. The Xiahe specimen provides direct evidence of the Denisovans outside the Altai Mountains and its analysis unique insights into Denisovan mandibular and dental morphology. Our results indicate that archaic hominins occupied the Tibetan Plateau in the Middle Pleistocene epoch and successfully adapted to high-altitude hypoxic environments long before the regional arrival of modern Homo sapiens.
PXD012928	31044171	Isolation and mass spectrometry based hydroxyproline mapping of type II collagen derived from Capra hircus ear cartilage. 	Mass spectrometric analysis of Collagen alpha-1 (II) chain from Capra hircus	Capra hircus, Collagen alpha-I (II), Hydroxyproline mapping, post translational modifications	Collagen II (COLII), the most abundant protein in vertebrates, helps maintain the structural and functional integrity of cartilage. Delivery of COLII from animal sources could improve cartilage regeneration therapies. Here we show that COLII can be purified from the Capra ear cartilage, a commonly available bio-waste product, with a high yield. MALDI-MS/MS analysis evidenced post-translational modifications of the signature triplet, Glycine-Proline-Hydroxyproline (G-P-Hyp), in alpha chain of isolated COLII (COLIIA1). Additionally, thirty-two peptides containing 59 Hyp residues and a few G-X-Y triplets with positional alterations of Hyp in COLIIA1 are also identified. Furthermore, we show that an injectable hydrogel formulation containing the isolated COLII facilitates chondrogenic differentiation towards cartilage regeneration. These findings show that COLII can be isolated from Capra ear cartilage and that positional alteration of Hyp in its structural motif, as detected by newly developed mass spectrometric method, might be an early marker of cartilage disorder.
PXD012895	31044177	Secreted parasite Pin1 isomerase stabilizes host PKM2 to reprogram host cell metabolism. 	Secreted parasite Pin1 isomerase stabilizes host PKM2 to reprogram host cell metabolism	LS-MS/MS, PKM, Pin1	Metabolic reprogramming is an important feature of host-pathogen interactions and a hallmark of tumorigenesis. The intracellular apicomplexa parasite Theileria induces a Warburg-like effect in host leukocytes by hijacking signaling machineries, epigenetic regulators and transcriptional programs to create a transformed cell state. The molecular mechanisms underlying host cell transformation are unclear. Here we show that a parasite-encoded prolyl-isomerase, TaPin1, stabilizes host pyruvate kinase isoform M2 (PKM2) leading to HIF-1alpha-dependent regulation of metabolic enzymes, glucose uptake and transformed phenotypes in parasite-infected cells. Our results provide a direct molecular link between the secreted parasite TaPin1 protein and host gene expression programs. This study demonstrates the importance of prolyl isomerization in the parasite manipulation of host metabolism.
PXD014523	31045356	First Community-Wide, Comparative Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Study. 	Comparison of OpenPepXL and xQuest on a Labeled Cross-Linking MS dataset	Chemical cross-linking, DMTMM, DSS, PDH, bovine serum albumin, structural proteomics	The number of publications in the field of chemical cross-linking combined with mass spectrometry (XL-MS) to derive constraints for protein three-dimensional structure modeling and to probe protein-protein interactions has increased during the last years. As the technique is now becoming routine for in vitro and in vivo applications in proteomics and structural biology there is a pressing need to define protocols as well as data analysis and reporting formats. Such consensus formats should become accepted in the field and be shown to lead to reproducible results. This first, community-based harmonization study on XL-MS is based on the results of 32 groups participating worldwide. The aim of this paper is to summarize the status quo of XL-MS and to compare and evaluate existing cross-linking strategies. Our study therefore builds the framework for establishing best practice guidelines to conduct cross-linking experiments, perform data analysis, and define reporting formats with the ultimate goal of assisting scientists to generate accurate and reproducible XL-MS results.
PXD009800	31046285	Multi-Enzymatic Limited Digestion: The Next-Generation Sequencing for Proteomics? 	Multi-Enzymatic Limited Digestion - the Next-Generation Sequencing for Proteomics	Digestibility profile, Limited digestion, PTMs, Protein characterization, Proteolytic method, de novo sequencing, mAbs	Over the past 40 years, proteomics, generically defined as the field dedicated to the identification and analysis of proteins, has tremendously gained in popularity and potency through advancements in genome sequencing, separative techniques, mass spectrometry, and bioinformatics algorithms. As a consequence, its scope of application has gradually enlarged and diversified to meet specialized topical biomedical subjects. Although the tryptic bottom-up approach is widely regarded as the gold standard for rapid screening of complex samples, its application for precise and confident mapping of protein modifications is often hindered due to partial sequence coverage, poor redundancy in indicative peptides, and lack of method flexibility. We here show how the synergic and time-limited action of a properly diluted mix of multiple enzymes can be exploited in a versatile yet straightforward protocol to alleviate present-day drawbacks. Merging bottom-up and middle-down ideologies, our results highlight broad assemblies of overlapping peptides that enable refined and reliable characterizations of proteins, including variant identification, and their carried modifications, including post-translational modifications, truncations, and cleavages. Beyond this boost in performance, our methodology also offers efficient de novo sequencing capabilities, in view of which we here present a dedicated custom assembly algorithm.
PXD010710	31049047	Comprehensive proteome and phosphoproteome profiling shows negligible influence of RNAlater on protein abundance and phosphorylation. 	Comprehensive evaluation of RNAlater effect on proteome and phosphoproteome	ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), RNAlater, phosphoproteome	Certain tumors such as pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) are known to contain a variety of hydrolytic enzymes including RNases and proteases that may lead to degradation of RNA and proteins during sample processing. For such tumor tissues with RNA instability, RNAlater containing a high concentration of quaternary ammonium sulfates that denature RNA-hydrolyzing enzymes is often used to protect RNAs from hydrolysis. Although a few studies have been carried out to determine the effect of RNAlater on DNA and RNA, whether RNAlater influences the proteome and phosphoproteome is largely unknown. In this study we carried out a systematic and comprehensive analysis of the effect of RNAlater on the proteome and phosphoproteome using high-resolution mass spectrometry. PDAC tissues from three patients were individually pulverized and the tissue powders of each patient were divided into two portions, one of which was incubated in RNAlater at 4 degreesC for 24 h (RNAlater tissue) while the other was kept at - 80 degreesC (frozen tissue). Comprehensive quantitative profiling experiments on the RNAlater tissues and the frozen tissues resulted in the identification of 99,136 distinct peptides of 8803 protein groups and 17,345 phosphopeptides of 16,436 phosphosites. The data exhibited no significant quantitative changes in both proteins and phosphorylation between the RNAlater tissues and the frozen tissue. In addition, the phosphoproteome data showed heterogeneously activated pathways among the three patients that were not altered by RNAlater. These results indicate that the tissue preservation method using RNAlater can be effectively used on PDAC tissues for proteogenomic studies where preservation of intact DNA, RNA and proteins is prerequisite. Data from this study are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD010710.
PXD013425	31051282	Decoding the human serum interactome of snake-derived antimicrobial peptide Ctn[15-34]: Toward an explanation for unusually long half-life. 	Human serum interactome of snake-derived antimicrobial peptide Ctn[15-34]	Human serum, antimicrobial peptide, peptide proteolytic resistance	The inherent propensity to enzymatic degradation of most peptides remains a bottleneck in their therapeutic development. Efficient, early screening methods are necessary for in vitro characterization of the molecular events occurring when peptides get in contact with biological fluids such us plasma. Herein we present an affinity purification/MS approach for mapping peptide serum interactors. We have applied this methodology to identify the serum partners of antibiotic peptide Ctn [15-34], aiming to ascertain the molecular interactions underlying its unusually long half-life (~ 12 h) in human serum. From 42 proteins captured in pull-downs with biotinylated Ctn [15-34] as bait, five are of special interest for their transport/binding properties hence alleged peptide arresting potential. The subset contains two members of the albumin superfamily, two apolipoproteins and a globulin. All five share a binding ability for hydrophobic species, and also bind Ctn [15-34], presumably via its C-terminal hydrophobic section, with affinities in the muM range as shown by surface plasmon resonance. Additionally, our functional enrichment reveals several significant immune-related processes suggesting an immunomodulatory role of Ctn [15-34]. Taken together, this study exemplifies how pharmacoproteomics can be used to analyze bioavailability issues and shed light on the serum interactors ultimately conferring protection to Ctn [15-34] against proteolytic events. SIGNIFICANCE: The affinity purification/MS identification methodology reported here can be viewed as a routine pharmacoproteomic approach to investigate the serum interactome of peptide drugs, identifying proteins affecting bioavailability and thus assisting the peptide drug development process. The specific results described here enlighten the serum stability issues of peptide Ctn [15-34] and ratify its promising future as an anti-infective lead.
PXD014448	31052182	HDAC5 Expression in Urothelial Carcinoma Cell Lines Inhibits Long-Term Proliferation but Can Promote Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition. 	Protein expression profiling of human urothelial carcinoma cell lines RT-112, VM-Cub-1, SW1710, UMUC3 and a benign urothelial control HBLAK engineered to stably express HDAC5 against their vector control	HDAC, cancer, cell lines, urothelial carcinoma	Class I histone deacetylases (HDACs) generally promote cell proliferation and tumorigenesis, whereas class IIA HDACs like HDAC4 and HDAC5 may promote or impede cancer development in a tissue-dependent manner. In urothelial carcinoma (UC), HDAC5 is often downregulated. Accordingly, HDAC5 was weakly expressed in UC cell lines suggesting a possible tumor-suppressive function. We therefore characterized the effects of stable HDAC5 expression in four UC cell lines (RT112, VM-Cub-1, SW1710 and UM-UC-3) with different phenotypes reflecting the heterogeneity of UC, by assessing proliferation, clonogenicity and migration ability. Further, we detailed changes in the proteome and transcriptome by immunoblotting, mass spectrometry and RNA sequencing analysis. We observed that HDAC5 overexpression in general decreased cell proliferation, but in one cell line (VM-Cub-1) induced a dramatic change from an epitheloid to a mesenchymal phenotype, i.e., epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). These phenotypical changes were confirmed by comprehensive proteomics and transcriptomics analyses. In contrast to HDAC5, overexpression of HDAC4 exerted only weak effects on cell proliferation and phenotypes. We conclude that overexpression of HDAC5 may generally decrease proliferation in UC, but, intriguingly, may induce EMT on its own in certain circumstances.
PXD012786	31053723	Differential methylation of enhancer at IGF2 is associated with abnormal dopamine synthesis in major psychosis. 	Synaptosome proteome IGF2 enhancer knockout mice	IGF2, dopamine, schizophrenia, striatum, synaptosome	Impaired neuronal processes, including dopamine imbalance, are central to the pathogenesis of major psychosis, but the molecular origins are unclear. Here we perform a multi-omics study of neurons isolated from the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (n = 55 cases and 27 controls). DNA methylation, transcriptomic, and genetic-epigenetic interactions in major psychosis converged on pathways of neurodevelopment, synaptic activity, and immune functions. We observe prominent hypomethylation of an enhancer within the insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) gene in major psychosis neurons. Chromatin conformation analysis revealed that this enhancer targets the nearby tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene responsible for dopamine synthesis. In patients, we find hypomethylation of the IGF2 enhancer is associated with increased TH protein levels. In mice, Igf2 enhancer deletion disrupts the levels of TH protein and striatal dopamine, and induces transcriptional and proteomic abnormalities affecting neuronal structure and signaling. Our data suggests that epigenetic activation of the enhancer at IGF2 may enhance dopamine synthesis associated with major psychosis.
PXD011761	31053734	Disruption of podocyte cytoskeletal biomechanics by dasatinib leads to nephrotoxicity. 	Disruption of podocyte cytoskeletal biomechanics by dasatinib leads to nephrotoxicity	BCR-ABL, Podocyte, actin, biophysics, cytoskeleton, dasatinib, kidney, nephrotoxicity	Nephrotoxicity is a critical adverse event that leads to discontinuation of kinase inhibitor (KI) treatment. Here we show, through meta-analyses of FDA Adverse Event Reporting System, that dasatinib is associated with high risk for glomerular toxicity that is uncoupled from hypertension, suggesting a direct link between dasatinib and podocytes. We further investigate the cellular effects of dasatinib and other comparable KIs with varying risks of nephrotoxicity. Dasatinib treated podocytes show significant changes in focal adhesions, actin cytoskeleton, and morphology that are not observed with other KIs. We use phosphoproteomics and kinome profiling to identify the molecular mechanisms of dasatinib-induced injury to the actin cytoskeleton, and atomic force microscopy to quantify impairment to cellular biomechanics. Furthermore, chronic administration of dasatinib in mice causes reversible glomerular dysfunction, loss of stress fibers, and foot process effacement. We conclude that dasatinib induces nephrotoxicity through altered podocyte actin cytoskeleton, leading to injurious cellular biomechanics.
PXD013031	31054181	Overexpression of a Monocot Acyl-CoA-Binding Protein Confers Broad-Spectrum Pathogen Protection in a Dicot. 	Arabidopsis thaliana SWATH-MS -  Overexpression of a Monocot Acyl-CoA-Binding Protein Confers Broad-Spectrum Pathogen Protection in a Dicot	Biotic stress, Rhizoctonia solani	Plants are continuously infected by various pathogens throughout their lifecycle. Previous studies have reported that the expression of Class III acyl-CoA-binding proteins (ACBPs) such as the Arabidopsis ACBP3 and rice ACBP5 were induced by pathogen infection. Transgenic Arabidopsis AtACBP3-overexpressors (AtACBP3-OEs) displayed enhanced protection against the bacterial biotroph, Pseudomonas syringae, although they became susceptible to the fungal necrotroph Botrytis cinerea. A Class III ACBP from a monocot, rice (Oryza sativa) OsACBP5 was overexpressed in the dicot Arabidopsis. The resultant transgenic Arabidopsis lines conferred resistance not only to the bacterial biotroph P. syringae but to fungal necrotrophs (Rhizoctonia solani, B. cinerea, Alternaria brassicicola) and a hemibiotroph (Colletotrichum siamense). Changes in protein expression in R. solani-infected Arabidopsis OsACBP5-overexpressors (OsACBP5-OEs) were demonstrated using proteomic analysis. Biotic stress-related proteins including cell wall-related proteins such as FASCILIN-LIKE ARABINOGALACTAN-PROTEIN10, LEUCINE-RICH REPEAT EXTENSIN-LIKE PROTEINS, XYLOGLUCAN ENDOTRANSGLUCOSYLASE/HYDROLASE PROTEIN4, and PECTINESTERASE INHIBITOR18; proteins associated with glucosinolate degradation including GDSL-LIKE LIPASE23, EPITHIOSPECIFIER MODIFIER1, MYROSINASE1, MYROSINASE2, and NITRILASE1; as well as a protein involved in jasmonate biosynthesis, ALLENE OXIDE CYCLASE2, were induced in OsACBP5-OEs upon R. solani infection. These results indicated that upregulation of these proteins in OsACBP5-OEs conferred protection against various plant pathogens.
PXD002780	31056253	The human Exonuclease-1 interactome and phosphorylation sites. 	Exonuclease-1 interactome and phosphorylation sites	EXO1, affinity tag purification, phosphorylation	Error-free repair of DNA double-strand breaks is orchestrated by homologous recombination (HR) pathways and requires the concerted action of several factors. Among these, Exonulcease-1 (EXO1) and DNA2/BLM execute extensive resection of DNA ends to produce 3'-overhangs, which are key intermediates for downstream steps of HR. To help shedding light on regulatory aspects of DNA repair pathways in which EXO1 participates, we set out to identify proteins interacting with EXO1. Affinity purification of EXO1 followed by Orbitrap mass spectrometry led to the identification of novel partners that are involved in RNA processing or that are the causative agents of rare X-linked disorders. Depletion of a selected subset of EXO1 interacting proteins led to reduction of the DNA damage response. Among those, we examined the RRP5-homologue and NF-kappa-B-interacting protein PDCD11/ALG-4, which has roles in apoptosis and is a putative driver gene in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. We provide evidence that depletion of PDCD11 decreased the formation of gamma-H2AX foci and the phosphorylation of DNA damage response (DDR) signaling intermediates in response to camptothecin or bleomycin, resulting in increased cellular resistance to DNA damage. Furthermore, extensive coverage of EXO1 sequence by mass spectrometry allowed conducting an in-depth analysis of its phosphorylation sites, with the identification of 26 residues that are differentially modified in untreated conditions or upon induction of DNA damage.
PXD012871	31059266	Identification of a USP9X Substrate NFX1-123 by SILAC-Based Quantitative Proteomics. 	Identification of a USP9X Substrate NFX1-123 by SILAC-based Quantitative Proteomics	NFX1-123, SILAC, USP9X	The deubiquitinase USP9X is involved in multiple diseases including neurodegeneration, epilepsy, and various types of tumors by targeting different substrates. In the present study, we aimed to explore the potential substrates of USP9X and performed SILAC-based quantitative proteomics to compare these substrates in USP9X-knockdown and wild-type HeLa cells. We consequently carried out Flag-NFX1-123 tag affinity-based mass spectrometry and confirmed that the X-box binding nuclear factor NFX1-123 interacted with USP9X. Moreover, immunoprecipitation assays verified a direct interaction between USP9X and NFX1-123. Further experiments confirmed that NFX1-123 could be modified by ubiquitination and that USP9X stabilized NFX1-123 via efficient deubiquitination of NFX1-123. Knockdown of USP9X resulted in decreased NFX1-123 protein levels compared with their unchanged corresponding mRNA levels in different cell lines. In summary, we found that NFX1-123 was a bona fide substrate of the deubiquitinase USP9X and that it could be degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. The present study provided new insight into understanding the biological function of USP9X by targeting its substrate NFX1-123.
PXD008365	31060309	Quantitative Proteomics Identifies DNA Repair as a Novel Biological Function for Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4alpha in Colorectal Cancer Cells. 	Quantitative Proteomics Identify a Novel DNA Repair-Dependent Role for Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4alpha	BioID, DNA repair, GFP-Trap, HNF4alpha, SILAC, colorectal cancer, quantitative proteomics	Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4alpha (HNF4alpha) is a transcription factor that acts as a master regulator of genes for several endoderm-derived tissues, including the intestine, in which it plays a central role during development and tumorigenesis. To better define the mechanisms by which HNF4alpha can influence these processes, we identified proteins interacting with HNF4alpha using stable isotope labelling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative proteomics with either immunoprecipitation of green fluorescent protein (GFP) or with proximity-dependent purification by the biotin ligase BirA (BioID), both fused to HNF4alpha. Surprisingly, these analyses identified a significant enrichment of proteins characterized with a role in DNA repair, a so far unidentified biological feature of this transcription factor. Several of these proteins including PARP1, RAD50, and DNA-PKcs were confirmed to interact with HNF4alpha in colorectal cancer cell lines. Following DNA damage, HNF4alpha was able to increase cell viability in colorectal cancer cells. Overall, these observations identify a potential role for this transcription factor during the DNA damage response.
PXD011792	31060355	In Vivo Proteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in Airways of Cystic Fibrosis Patients. 	In vivo proteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in airways of cystic fibrosis patients	Metaproteomics, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, bacterial population proteomes, cystic fibrosis, quantitative proteomics	Chronic airway infection with P. aeruginosa (PA) is a hallmark of cystic fibrosis (CF) disease. The mechanisms producing PA persistence in CF therapies remain poorly understood. To gain insight on PA physiology in patient airways and better understand how in vivo bacterial functioning differs from in vitro conditions, we investigated the in vivo proteomes of PA in 35 sputum samples from 11 CF patients. We developed a novel bacterial-enrichment method that relies on differential centrifugation and detergent treatment to enrich for bacteria to improve identification of PA proteome with CF sputum samples. Using two nonredundant peptides as a cutoff, a total of 1304 PA proteins were identified directly from CF sputum samples. The in vivo PA proteomes were compared with the proteomes of ex vivo-grown PA populations from the same patient sample. Label-free quantitation and proteome comparison revealed the in vivo up-regulation of siderophore TonB-dependent receptors, remodeling in central carbon metabolism including glyoxylate cycle and lactate utilization, and alginate overproduction. Knowledge of these in vivo proteome differences or others derived using the presented methodology could lead to future treatment strategies aimed at altering PA physiology in vivo to compromise infectivity or improve antibiotic efficacy.
PXD011610	31060518	Ammonium triggered the response mechanism of lysine crotonylome in tea plants. 	Ammonium resupply-triggered response mechanism of lysine crotonylome in tea leaves (Camellia sinensis L.)	Amino acid metabolism, Camellia sinensis L., Carbon fixation, Crotonylome, Enzymatic activity, Lysine crotonylation, Photosynthesis	BACKGROUND: Lysine crotonylation, as a novel evolutionarily conserved type of post-translational modifications, is ubiquitous and essential in cell biology. However, its functions in tea plants are largely unknown, and the full functions of lysine crotonylated proteins of tea plants in nitrogen absorption and assimilation remains unclear. Our study attempts to describe the global profiling of nonhistone lysine crotonylation in tea leaves and to explore how ammonium (NH4(+)) triggers the response mechanism of lysine crotonylome in tea plants. RESULTS: Here, we performed the global analysis of crotonylome in tea leaves under NH4(+) deficiency/resupply using high-resolution LC-MS/MS coupled with highly sensitive immune-antibody. A total of 2288 lysine crotonylation sites on 971 proteins were identified, of which contained in 15 types of crotonylated motifs. Most of crotonylated proteins were located in chloroplast (37%) and cytoplasm (33%). Compared with NH4(+) deficiency, 120 and 151 crotonylated proteins were significantly changed at 3 h and 3 days of NH4(+) resupply, respectively. Bioinformatics analysis showed that differentially expressed crotonylated proteins participated in diverse biological processes such as photosynthesis (PsbO, PsbP, PsbQ, Pbs27, PsaN, PsaF, FNR and ATPase), carbon fixation (rbcs, rbcl, TK, ALDO, PGK and PRK) and amino acid metabolism (SGAT, GGAT2, SHMT4 and GDC), suggesting that lysine crotonylation played important roles in these processes. Moreover, the protein-protein interaction analysis revealed that the interactions of identified crotonylated proteins diversely involved in photosynthesis, carbon fixation and amino acid metabolism. Interestingly, a large number of enzymes were crotonylated, such as Rubisco, TK, SGAT and GGAT, and their activities and crotonylation levels changed significantly by sensing ammonium, indicating a potential function of crotonylation in the regulation of enzyme activities. CONCLUSIONS: The results indicated that the crotonylated proteins had a profound influence on metabolic process of tea leaves in response to NH4(+) deficiency/resupply, which mainly involved in diverse aspects of primary metabolic processes by sensing NH4(+), especially in photosynthesis, carbon fixation and amino acid metabolism. The data might serve as important resources for exploring the roles of lysine crotonylation in N metabolism of tea plants. Data were available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011610.
PXD013056	31060926	SIRT3 controls brown fat thermogenesis by deacetylation regulation of pathways upstream of UCP1. 	SIRT3 controls brown fat thermogenesis by deacetylation regulation of pathways upstream of UCP1 	Acetylation, Acylcarnitines , Brown adipose tissue, Fatty acid oxidation, Mitochondria, Oxidative phosphorylation, Sirtuin 3, Thermogenesis, Thermoregulation, Uncoupling protein 1	OBJECTIVE: Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is important for thermoregulation in many mammals. Uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) is the critical regulator of thermogenesis in BAT. Here we aimed to investigate the deacetylation control of BAT and to investigate a possible functional connection between UCP1 and sirtuin 3 (SIRT3), the master mitochondrial lysine deacetylase. METHODS: We carried out physiological, molecular, and proteomic analyses of BAT from wild-type and Sirt3KO mice when BAT is activated. Mice were either cold exposed for 2 days or were injected with the beta3-adrenergic agonist, CL316,243 (1 mg/kg; i.p.). Mutagenesis studies were conducted in a cellular model to assess the impact of acetylation lysine sites on UCP1 function. Cardiac punctures were collected for proteomic analysis of blood acylcarnitines. Isolated mitochondria were used for functional analysis of OXPHOS proteins. RESULTS: Our findings showed that SIRT3 absence in mice resulted in impaired BAT lipid use, whole body thermoregulation, and respiration in BAT mitochondria, without affecting UCP1 expression. Acetylome profiling of BAT mitochondria revealed that SIRT3 regulates acetylation status of many BAT mitochondrial proteins including UCP1 and crucial upstream proteins. Mutagenesis work in cells suggested that UCP1 activity was independent of direct SIRT3-regulated lysine acetylation. However, SIRT3 impacted BAT mitochondrial proteins activities of acylcarnitine metabolism and specific electron transport chain complexes, CI and CII. CONCLUSIONS: Our data highlight that SIRT3 likely controls BAT thermogenesis indirectly by targeting pathways upstream of UCP1.
PXD012501	31061101	Thylakoid Protein Phosphorylation Dynamics in a Moss Mutant Lacking SERINE/THREONINE PROTEIN KINASE STN8. 	Thylakoid protein phosphorylation in Physcomitrella patens	N-terminal acetylation, Physcomitrella patens, STN8 kinase, moss, nLC-MSMS, photosynthesis, photosystem II, protein phosphorylation, thylakoids	In all eukaryotes, protein phosphorylation is a key regulatory mechanism in several cellular processes, including the acclimation of photosynthesis to environmental cues. Despite being a well-conserved regulatory mechanism in the chloroplasts of land plants, distinct differences in thylakoid protein phosphorylation patterns have emerged from studies on species of different phylogenetic groups. Here, we analyzed thylakoid protein phosphorylation in the moss Physcomitrella patens, assessing the thylakoid phospho-protein profile and dynamics in response to changes in white light intensity. Compared with Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), parallel characterization of wild-type P patens and the knockout mutant stn8 (depleted in SER/THR PROTEIN KINASE8 [STN8]) disclosed a moss-specific pattern of thylakoid protein phosphorylation, both with respect to specific targets and to their dynamic phosphorylation in response to environmental cues. Unlike vascular plants, (1) phosphorylation of the PSII protein D1 in P patens was negligible under all light conditions, (2) phosphorylation of the PSII core subunits CP43 and D2 showed only minor changes upon fluctuations in light intensity, and (3) absence of STN8 completely abolished all PSII core protein phosphorylation. Further, we detected light-induced phosphorylation in the minor light harvesting complex (LHC) antenna protein LHCB6, which was dependent on STN8 kinase activity, and found specific phosphorylations on LHCB3. Data presented here provide further insights into the appearance and physiological role of thylakoid protein phosphorylation during evolution of oxygenic photosynthetic organisms and their colonization of land.
PXD008298	31061102	The Protein Modifications of O-GlcNAcylation and Phosphorylation Mediate Vernalization Response for Flowering in Winter Wheat. 	Dynamic Yin-Yang regulation network of O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation mediatesvernalization response for flowering in winter wheat, part 2	O-GlcNAcylation modification, phosphorylation modification	O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation are two posttranslational modifications that antagonistically regulate protein function. However, the regulation of and the cross talk between these two protein modifications are poorly understood in plants. Here we investigated the role of O-GlcNAcylation during vernalization, a process whereby prolonged cold exposure promotes flowering in winter wheat (Triticum aestivum), and analyzed the dynamic profile of O-GlcNAcylated and phosphorylated proteins in response to vernalization. Altering O-GlcNAc signaling by chemical inhibitors affected the vernalization response, modifying the expression of VRN genes and subsequently affecting flowering transition. Over a vernalization time-course, O-GlcNAcylated and phosphorylated peptides were enriched from winter wheat plumules by Lectin weak affinity chromatography and iTRAQ-TiO2, respectively. Subsequent mass spectrometry and gene ontology term enrichment analysis identified 168 O-GlcNAcylated proteins that are mainly involved in responses to abiotic stimulus and hormones, metabolic processing, and gene expression; and 124 differentially expressed phosphorylated proteins that participate in translation, transcription, and metabolic processing. Of note, 31 vernalization-associated proteins were identified that carried both phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation modifications, of which the majority (97%) exhibited the coexisting module and the remainder exhibited the potential competitive module. Among these, TaGRP2 was decorated with dynamic O-GlcNAcylation (S87) and phosphorylation (S152) modifications, and the mutation of S87 and S152 affected the binding of TaGRP2 to the RIP3 motif of TaVRN1 in vitro. Our data suggest that a dynamic network of O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation at key pathway nodes regulate the vernalization response and mediate flowering in wheat.
PXD010611	31061140	Proteomic Profiling of Human Prostate Cancer-associated Fibroblasts (CAF) Reveals LOXL2-dependent Regulation of the Tumor Microenvironment. 	Proteomic profiling of human prostate cancer-associated fibroblasts identifies LOXL2 promotes tumour migration in the extracellular matrix	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Prostate cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), fibroblast, loxl2, phosphoproteome	In prostate cancer, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) exhibit contrasting biological properties to non-malignant prostate fibroblasts (NPF) and promote tumorigenesis. Resolving intercellular signaling pathways between CAF and prostate tumor epithelium may offer novel opportunities for research translation. To this end, the proteome and phosphoproteome of four pairs of patient-matched CAF and NPF were characterized to identify discriminating proteomic signatures. Samples were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) with a hyper reaction monitoring data-independent acquisition (HRM-DIA) workflow. Proteins that exhibited a significant increase in CAF versus NPF were enriched for the functional categories "cell adhesion" and the "extracellular matrix." The CAF phosphoproteome exhibited enhanced phosphorylation of proteins associated with the "spliceosome" and "actin binding." STRING analysis of the CAF proteome revealed a prominent interaction hub associated with collagen synthesis, modification, and signaling. It contained multiple collagens, including the fibrillar types COL1A1/2 and COL5A1; the receptor tyrosine kinase discoidin domain-containing receptor 2 (DDR2), a receptor for fibrillar collagens; and lysyl oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2), an enzyme that promotes collagen crosslinking. Increased activity and/or expression of LOXL2 and DDR2 in CAF were confirmed by enzymatic assays and Western blotting analyses. Pharmacological inhibition of CAF-derived LOXL2 perturbed extracellular matrix (ECM) organization and decreased CAF migration in a wound healing assay. Further, it significantly impaired the motility of co-cultured RWPE-2 prostate tumor epithelial cells. These results indicate that CAF-derived LOXL2 is an important mediator of intercellular communication within the prostate tumor microenvironment and is a potential therapeutic target.
PXD008758	31061415	A new class of protein biomarkers based on subcellular distribution: application to a mouse liver cancer model. 	A technique to identify context-based protein biomarkers: Application to a mouse liver cancer model	Cancer, Mouse Liver, SWATH-MS	To-date, most proteomic studies aimed at discovering tissue-based cancer biomarkers have compared the quantity of selected proteins between case and control groups. However, proteins generally function in association with other proteins to form modules localized in particular subcellular compartments in specialized cell types and tissues. Sub-cellular mislocalization of proteins has in fact been detected as a key feature in a variety of cancer cells. Here, we describe a strategy for tissue-biomarker detection based on a mitochondrial fold enrichment (mtFE) score, which is sensitive to protein abundance changes as well as changes in subcellular distribution between mitochondria and cytosol. The mtFE score integrates protein abundance data from total cellular lysates and mitochondria-enriched fractions, and provides novel information for the classification of cancer samples that is not necessarily apparent from conventional abundance measurements alone. We apply this new strategy to a panel of wild-type and mutant mice with a liver-specific gene deletion of Liver receptor homolog 1 (Lrh-1(hep-/-)), with both lines containing control individuals as well as individuals with liver cancer induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Lrh-1 gene deletion attenuates cancer cell metabolism in hepatocytes through mitochondrial glutamine processing. We show that proteome changes based on mtFE scores outperform protein abundance measurements in discriminating DEN-induced liver cancer from healthy liver tissue, and are uniquely robust against genetic perturbation. We validate the capacity of selected proteins with informative mtFE scores to indicate hepatic malignant changes in two independent mouse models of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), thus demonstrating the robustness of this new approach to biomarker research. Overall, the method provides a novel, sensitive approach to cancer biomarker discovery that considers contextual information of tested proteins.
PXD012831	31061531	Integrative proteomics reveals an increase in non-degradative ubiquitylation in activated CD4(+) T cells. 	Mus musculus primary CD4+ T cell di-glycine remnant and whole cell proteomics	Mus musculus primary CD4+ T cell di-glycine remnant and whole cell proteomics	Despite gathering evidence that ubiquitylation can direct non-degradative outcomes, most investigations of ubiquitylation in T cells have focused on degradation. Here, we integrated proteomic and transcriptomic datasets from primary mouse CD4(+) T cells to establish a framework for predicting degradative or non-degradative outcomes of ubiquitylation. Di-glycine remnant profiling was used to reveal ubiquitylated proteins, which in combination with whole-cell proteomic and transcriptomic data allowed prediction of protein degradation. Analysis of ubiquitylated proteins identified by di-glycine remnant profiling indicated that activation of CD4(+) T cells led to an increase in non-degradative ubiquitylation. This correlated with an increase in non-proteasome-targeted K29, K33 and K63 polyubiquitin chains. This study revealed over 1,200 proteins that were ubiquitylated in primary mouse CD4(+) T cells and highlighted the relevance of non-proteasomally targeted ubiquitin chains in T cell signaling.
PXD013005	31061535	Control of retrograde signalling by protein import and cytosolic folding stress. 	Quantification of Tic-Toc subunits in gun1	Lincomycin, gun1-101, norflurazon, wild type	Communication between organelles and the nucleus is essential for fitness and survival. Retrograde signals are cues emitted from the organelles to regulate nuclear gene expression. GENOMES UNCOUPLED1 (GUN1), a protein of unknown function, has emerged as a central integrator, participating in multiple retrograde signalling pathways that collectively regulate the nuclear transcriptome. Here, we show that GUN1 regulates chloroplast protein import through interaction with the import-related chaperone cpHSC70-1. We demonstrated that overaccumulation of unimported precursor proteins (preproteins) in the cytosol causes a GUN phenotype in the wild-type background and enhances the GUN phenotype of the gun1 mutant. Furthermore, we identified the cytosolic HSP90 chaperone complex, induced by overaccumulated preproteins, as a central regulator of photosynthetic gene expression that determines the expression of the GUN phenotype. Taken together, our results suggest a model in which protein import capacity, folding stress and the cytosolic HSP90 complex control retrograde communication.
PXD013234	31064135	Comparison of Proteome Composition of Serum Enriched in Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Polycythemia Vera Patients and Healthy Controls. 	Comparison of proteome composition of serum enriched in extracellular vesicles isolated from polycythemia vera patients and healthy controls	Human plasma, extracellular vesicles, vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs), e.g., exosomes and microvesicles, are one of the main networks of intercellular communication. In myeloproliferative neoplasms, such as polycythemia vera (PV), excess of EVs originating from overabundant blood cells can directly contribute to thrombosis through their procoagulant activity. However, the proteomic composition of these vesicles in PV patients has not been investigated before. In this work, we examined the proteomic composition of serum EVs of PV patients in comparison to healthy controls. We processed EV-enriched serum samples using the Multiple Enzyme Filter Aided Sample Preparation approach (MED-FASP), conducted LC-MS/MS measurements on a Q-Exactive HF-X mass spectrometer, and quantitatively analyzed the absolute concentrations of identified proteins by the Total Protein Approach (TPA). Thirty-eight proteins were present at statistically significant different concentrations between PV patients' study group and healthy controls' group. The main protein components deregulated in PV were primarily related to excessive amounts of cells, increased platelet activation, elevated immune and inflammatory response, and high concentrations of procoagulant and angiogenic agents. Our study provides the first quantitative analysis of the serum EVs' proteome in PV patients. This new knowledge may contribute to a better understanding of the secondary systemic effects of PV disease and further development of diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.
PXD013183	31064814	Proximity-dependent biotinylation mediated by TurboID to identify protein-protein interaction networks in yeast. 	Proximity-dependent biotinylation by TurboID to identify protein-protein interaction networks in yeast	Proximity-dependent biotinylation, RNA exosome, Rmt3, S. pombe, TurboID	The use of proximity-dependent biotinylation assays coupled to mass spectrometry (PDB-MS) has changed the field of protein-protein interaction studies. However, despite the recurrent and successful use of BioID-based protein-protein interactions screening in mammalian cells, the implementation of PDB-MS in yeast has not been effective. Here, we report a simple and rapid approach in yeast to effectively screen for proximal and interacting proteins in their natural cellular environment by using TurboID, a recently described version of the BirA biotin ligase. Using the protein arginine methyltransferase Rmt3 and the RNA exosome subunits, Rrp6 and Dis3, the application of PDB-MS in yeast by using TurboID was able to recover protein-protein interactions previously identified using other biochemical approaches and provided new complementary information for a given protein bait. The development of a rapid and effective PDB assay that can systematically analyze protein-protein interactions in living yeast cells opens the way for large-scale proteomics studies in this powerful model organism.
PXD013243	31064824	Morphological Plasticity in a Sulfur-Oxidizing Marine Bacterium from the SUP05 Clade Enhances Dark Carbon Fixation. 	Morphological plasticity in a sulfur-oxidizing bacterium from the SUP05 clade enhances dark carbon fixation	Gammaproteobacteria, QExactive HF, SUP05, Shotgun Proteomics	Sulfur-oxidizing bacteria from the SUP05 clade are abundant in anoxic and oxygenated marine waters that appear to lack reduced sources of sulfur for cell growth. This raises questions about how these chemosynthetic bacteria survive across oxygen and sulfur gradients and how their mode of survival impacts the environment. Here, we use growth experiments, proteomics, and cryo-electron tomography to show that a SUP05 isolate, "Candidatus Thioglobus autotrophicus," is amorphous in shape and several times larger and stores considerably more intracellular sulfur when it respires oxygen. We also show that these cells can use diverse sources of reduced organic and inorganic sulfur at submicromolar concentrations. Enhanced cell size, carbon content, and metabolic activity of the aerobic phenotype are likely facilitated by a stabilizing surface-layer (S-layer) and an uncharacterized form of FtsZ-less cell division that supports morphological plasticity. The additional sulfur storage provides an energy source that allows cells to continue metabolic activity when exogenous sulfur sources are not available. This metabolic flexibility leads to the production of more organic carbon in the ocean than is estimated based solely on their anaerobic phenotype.IMPORTANCE Identifying shifts in microbial metabolism across redox gradients will improve efforts to model marine oxygen minimum zone (OMZ) ecosystems. Here, we show that aerobic morphology and metabolism increase cell size, sulfur storage capacity, and carbon fixation rates in "Ca Thioglobus autotrophicus," a chemosynthetic bacterium from the SUP05 clade that crosses oxic-anoxic boundaries.
PXD011350	31064836	Massively Parallel Fitness Profiling Reveals Multiple Novel Enzymes in Pseudomonas putida Lysine Metabolism. 	Massively parallel fitness profiling reveals multiple novel enzymes in Pseudomonas putida lysine metabolism	targeted proteomics	Despite intensive study for 50 years, the biochemical and genetic links between lysine metabolism and central metabolism in Pseudomonas putida remain unresolved. To establish these biochemical links, we leveraged random barcode transposon sequencing (RB-TnSeq), a genome-wide assay measuring the fitness of thousands of genes in parallel, to identify multiple novel enzymes in both l- and d-lysine metabolism. We first describe three pathway enzymes that catabolize l-2-aminoadipate (l-2AA) to 2-ketoglutarate (2KG), connecting d-lysine to the TCA cycle. One of these enzymes, P. putida 5260 (PP_5260), contains a DUF1338 domain, representing a family with no previously described biological function. Our work also identified the recently described coenzyme A (CoA)-independent route of l-lysine degradation that results in metabolization to succinate. We expanded on previous findings by demonstrating that glutarate hydroxylase CsiD is promiscuous in its 2-oxoacid selectivity. Proteomics of selected pathway enzymes revealed that expression of catabolic genes is highly sensitive to the presence of particular pathway metabolites, implying intensive local and global regulation. This work demonstrated the utility of RB-TnSeq for discovering novel metabolic pathways in even well-studied bacteria, as well as its utility a powerful tool for validating previous research.IMPORTANCEP. putida lysine metabolism can produce multiple commodity chemicals, conferring great biotechnological value. Despite much research, the connection of lysine catabolism to central metabolism in P. putida remained undefined. Here, we used random barcode transposon sequencing to fill the gaps of lysine metabolism in P. putida We describe a route of 2-oxoadipate (2OA) catabolism, which utilizes DUF1338-containing protein P. putida 5260 (PP_5260) in bacteria. Despite its prevalence in many domains of life, DUF1338-containing proteins have had no known biochemical function. We demonstrate that PP_5260 is a metalloenzyme which catalyzes an unusual route of decarboxylation of 2OA to d-2-hydroxyglutarate (d-2HG). Our screen also identified a recently described novel glutarate metabolic pathway. We validate previous results and expand the understanding of glutarate hydroxylase CsiD by showing that can it use either 2OA or 2KG as a cosubstrate. Our work demonstrated that biological novelty can be rapidly identified using unbiased experimental genetics and that RB-TnSeq can be used to rapidly validate previous results.
PXD012738	31066118	LysargiNase enhances protein identification on the basis of trypsin on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples. 	LysargiNase Enhances the Protein Identification on FFPE Samples	FFPE, LysargiNase, Trypsin, methylation, mouse liver	RATIONALE: Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) samples are valuable for proteomic studies of disease. However, the crosslink among proteins, protein vs nucleic acid, and other covalent chemical modifications like methylation introduced by formaldehyde can interfere with trypsin digestion in proteomics studies. LysargiNase was reported to have a better full-cleavage rate at methylation and b ion coverage than trypsin. The contribution of LysargiNase in the proteomic study of FFPE samples was assessed and compared with trypsin in this study for the first time to facilitate proteomic research on FFPE samples. METHODS: The FFPE proteins were extracted with an "antigen retrieval" method. Digestion parameters were optimized by visualization of the digests on the tricine gel by silver staining. Then the FFPE proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and cut into 16 gel bands and in-gel digested by trypsin and LysargiNase, respectively. Peptides were desalted with Stage-Tips and separated via liquid chromatography. Electrospray ionization was conducted and peptide mass was measured in the LTQ Orbitrap Velos in the data-dependent mode. RESULTS: High concentrations of enzyme facilitate the digestion efficiency of FFPE samples. A total of 32,294 peptides and 3445 proteins were identified with LysargiNase and trypsin combined in two replicates. LysargiNase increased peptide identification by 18.9% and protein identification by 13.4% on the basis of trypsin. Consistently, LysargiNase increased C-terminal peptide identification by 47.7%. Moreover, LysargiNase showed better full-cleavage rate (49.3%) at methylated sites than trypsin (23.9%). LysargiNase and trypsin combined can improve the b-ion coverage by 50% on FFPE samples. CONCLUSIONS: FFPE samples can be more efficiently digested at high concentrations of LysargiNase and trypsin. LysargiNase can better digest methylated peptides and improve the proteome identification by 13.4% and the b-ion coverage by 50% on the basis of trypsin in FFPE samples.
PXD012785	31067474	Quantitative Temporal Proteomic Analysis of Vaccinia Virus Infection Reveals Regulation of Histone Deacetylases by an Interferon Antagonist. 	Quantitative temporal proteomic analysis of vaccinia virus infection reveals regulation of histone deacetylases by an interferon antagonist	histone deacetylase, host-pathogen interaction, immune evasion, innate immunity, interferon, poxvirus, quantitative proteomics, restriction factor, systems virology, tandem mass tag	Vaccinia virus (VACV) has numerous immune evasion strategies, including multiple mechanisms of inhibition of interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3), nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), and type I interferon (IFN) signaling. Here, we use highly multiplexed proteomics to quantify ~9,000 cellular proteins and ~80% of viral proteins at seven time points throughout VACV infection. A total of 265 cellular proteins are downregulated >2-fold by VACV, including putative natural killer cell ligands and IFN-stimulated genes. Two-thirds of these viral targets, including class II histone deacetylase 5 (HDAC5), are degraded proteolytically during infection. In follow-up analysis, we demonstrate that HDAC5 restricts replication of both VACV and herpes simplex virus type 1. By generating a protein-based temporal classification of VACV gene expression, we identify protein C6, a multifunctional IFN antagonist, as being necessary and sufficient for proteasomal degradation of HDAC5. Our approach thus identifies both a host antiviral factor and a viral mechanism of innate immune evasion.
PXD013630	31068461	Extracellular vesicle fibrinogen induces encephalitogenic CD8+ T cells in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. 	Extracellular vesicle fibrinogen induces encephalitogenic CD8+ T cells in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis	extracellular vesicles, fibrinogen, multiple sclerosis	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are emerging as potent mediators of intercellular communication with roles in inflammation and disease. In this study, we examined the role of EVs from blood plasma (pEVs) in an experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis mouse model of central nervous system demyelination. We determined that pEVs induced a spontaneous relapsing-remitting disease phenotype in MOG35-55-immunized C57BL/6 mice. This modified disease phenotype was found to be driven by CD8+ T cells and required fibrinogen in pEVs. Analysis of pEVs from relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis patients also identified fibrinogen as a significant portion of pEV cargo. Together, these data suggest that fibrinogen in pEVs contributes to the perpetuation of neuroinflammation and relapses in disease.
PXD013000	31069174	Proteomic Analysis and Virulence Assessment of Granulicatella adiacens Secretome. 	Secretome of Granulicatella adiacens	Granulicatella, infective endocarditis, oral infections	Despite reports on the occurrence of Granulicatella adiacens in infective endocarditis, few mechanistic studies on its virulence characteristics or pathogenicity are available. Proteins secreted by this species may act as determinants of host-microbe interaction and play a role in virulence. Our aim in this study was to investigate and functionally characterize the secretome of G. adiacens. Proteins in the secretome preparation were digested by trypsin and applied to nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS. By using a combined mass spectrometry and bioinformatics approach, we identified 101 proteins. Bioinformatics tools predicting subcellular localization revealed that 18 of the secreted proteins possessed signal sequence. More than 20% of the secretome proteins were putative virulence proteins including serine protease, superoxide dismutase, aminopeptidase, molecular chaperone DnaK, and thioredoxin. Ribosomal proteins, molecular chaperones, and glycolytic enzymes, together known as "moonlighting proteins," comprised fifth of the secretome proteins. By Gene Ontology analysis, more than 60 proteins of the secretome were grouped in biological processes or molecular functions. KEGG pathway analysis disclosed that the secretome consisted of enzymes involved in biosynthesis of antibiotics. Cytokine profiling revealed that secreted proteins stimulated key cytokines, such as IL-1beta, MCP-1, TNF-alpha, and RANTES from human PBMCs. In summary, the results from the current investigation of the G. adiacens secretome provide a basis for understanding possible pathogenic mechanisms of G. adiacens.
PXD010760	31070244	Exosomal Transport of Hepatocyte-Derived Drug-Modified Proteins to the Immune System. 	Exosomal transport of hepatocyte-derived drug-modified proteins to the immune system	Hepatocytes, drug-induced liver injury, exosomes, immune response	Idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a rare, often difficult-to-predict adverse reaction with complex pathomechanisms. However, it is now evident that certain forms of DILI are immune-mediated and may involve the activation of drug-specific T cells. Exosomes are cell-derived vesicles that carry RNA, lipids, and protein cargo from their cell of origin to distant cells, and they may play a role in immune activation. Herein, primary human hepatocytes were treated with drugs associated with a high incidence of DILI (flucloxacillin, amoxicillin, isoniazid, and nitroso-sulfamethoxazole) to characterize the proteins packaged within exosomes that are subsequently transported to dendritic cells for processing. Exosomes measured between 50 and 100 nm and expressed enriched CD63. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS-MS) identified 2,109 proteins, with 608 proteins being quantified across all exosome samples. Data are available through ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010760. Analysis of gene ontologies revealed that exosomes mirrored whole human liver tissue in terms of the families of proteins present, regardless of drug treatment. However, exosomes from nitroso-sulfamethoxazole-treated hepatocytes selectively packaged a specific subset of proteins. LC/MS-MS also revealed the presence of hepatocyte-derived exosomal proteins covalently modified with amoxicillin, flucloxacillin, and nitroso-sulfamethoxazole. Uptake of exosomes by monocyte-derived dendritic cells occurred silently, mainly through phagocytosis, and was inhibited by latrunculin A. An amoxicillin-modified 9-mer peptide derived from the exosomal transcription factor protein SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 30 activated naive T cells from human leukocyte antigen A*02:01-positive human donors. Conclusion: This study shows that exosomes have the potential to transmit drug-specific hepatocyte-derived signals to the immune system and provide a pathway for the induction of drug hapten-specific T-cell responses.
PXD013424	31070379	In Vivo Trapping of Proteins Interacting with the Chloroplast CLPC1 Chaperone: Potential Substrates and Adaptors. 	In vivo trapping of proteins interacting with the chloroplast CLPC1 chaperone; potential substrates and adaptors	ClpC1 chaperone in vivo trapping adaprotr substrate	The chloroplast stromal CLP protease system is essential for growth and development. It consists of a proteolytic CLP core complex that likely dynamically interacts with oligomeric rings of CLPC1, CLPC2, or CLPD AAA(+) chaperones. These ATP-dependent chaperones are predicted to bind and unfold CLP protease substrates, frequently aided by adaptors (recognins), and feed them into the proteolytic CLP core for degradation. To identify new substrates and possibly also new adaptors for the chloroplast CLP protease system, we generated an in vivo CLPC1 substrate trap with a C-terminal STREPII affinity tag in Arabidopsis thaliana by mutating critical glutamate residues (E374A and E718A) in the two Walker B domains of CLPC1 required for the hydrolysis of ATP (CLPC1-TRAP). On the basis of homology to nonplant CLPB/C chaperones, it is predicted that interacting substrates are unable to be released; that is, they are trapped. When expressed in the wild type, this CLPC1-TRAP induced a dominant visible phenotype, whereas no viable mutants that express CLPC1-TRAP in the clpc1-1 null mutant could be recovered. Affinity purification of the CLPC1-TRAP resulted in a dozen proteins highly enriched compared with affinity-purified CLPC1 with a C-terminal STREPII affinity tag (CLPC1-WT). These enriched proteins likely represent CLP protease substrates or new adaptors. Several of these trapped proteins overaccumulated in clp mutants or were found as interactors for the adaptor CLPS1, supporting their functional relationship to CLP function. Importantly, the affinity purification of this CLPC1-TRAP also showed high enrichment of all CLPP, CLPR, and CLPT subunits, indicating the stabilization of the CLPC to CLP core interaction and providing direct support for their physical and functional interaction.
PXD012503	31071474	High throughput LC-MS/MS-based proteomic analysis of excretory-secretory products from short-term in vitro culture of Haemonchus contortus. 	Haemonchus contortus secretome LC-MS/MS	Haemonchus contortus, Metaproteomics, Parasitic nematode, Secretome	Parasitic nematodes of humans, animals and plants have a major, adverse impact on global health and agricultural production worldwide. To cope with their surrounding environment in and the immune attack from the host, excretory-secretory (ES) proteins are released by nematodes to orchestrate or regulate parasite-host interactions. In the present study, we characterised the ES products from short-term (12 h) in vitro culture of different developmental stages/sexes of Haemonchus contortus (one of the most important parasitic nematodes of livestock animals worldwide) using a high throughput tandem mass-spectrometry, underpinned by the most recent genomic dataset. In total, 878 unique proteins from key developmental stages/sexes (third-stage and fourth-stage larvae, and female and male adults) were identified and quantified with high confidence. Bioinformatic analyses showed noteworthy ES protein alterations during the transition from the free-living to the parasitic phase, especially for proteins which are likely involved in nutrient digestion and acquisition as well as parasite-host interactions, such as proteolytic cascade-related peptidases, glycoside hydrolases, C-type lectins and sperm-coating protein/Tpx/antigen 5/pathogenesis related-1/Sc7 (= SCP/TAPS) proteins. Our findings provide an avenue to better explore interactive processes between the host and this highly significant parasitic nematode, to underpin the search for novel drug and vaccine targets. SIGNIFICANCE: The present study represents a comprehensive proteomic analysis of the secretome of key developmental stages/sexes of H. contortus maintained in short-term in vitro culture. High throughput LC-MS/MS analysis of ES products allowed the identification of a large repertoire of proteins (secretome) and the establishment of a new proteomic database for H. contortus. The secretome of H. contortus undergoes substantial changes during the nematode's transition from free-living to parasitic stages, suggesting a constant adaptation to different environments outside of and within the host animal. Understanding the host-parasite relationship at the molecular level could assist significantly in the development of intervention strategies (i.e. novel drugs and vaccines) against H. contortus and related nematodes.
PXD012312	31072100	Lessons from Two Design-Build-Test-Learn Cycles of Dodecanol Production in Escherichia coli Aided by Machine Learning. 	Lessons from Two Design-Build-Test-Learn Cycles of Dodecanol Production in Escherichia coli Aided by Machine Learning	Machine Learning, Metabolic engineering, Metabolomics, Protoemics, Synthetic biology	The Design-Build-Test-Learn (DBTL) cycle, facilitated by exponentially improving capabilities in synthetic biology, is an increasingly adopted metabolic engineering framework that represents a more systematic and efficient approach to strain development than historical efforts in biofuels and biobased products. Here, we report on implementation of two DBTL cycles to optimize 1-dodecanol production from glucose using 60 engineered Escherichia coli MG1655 strains. The first DBTL cycle employed a simple strategy to learn efficiently from a relatively small number of strains (36), wherein only the choice of ribosome-binding sites and an acyl-ACP/acyl-CoA reductase were modulated in a single pathway operon including genes encoding a thioesterase (UcFatB1), an acyl-ACP/acyl-CoA reductase (Maqu_2507, Maqu_2220, or Acr1), and an acyl-CoA synthetase (FadD). Measured variables included concentrations of dodecanol and all proteins in the engineered pathway. We used the data produced in the first DBTL cycle to train several machine-learning algorithms and to suggest protein profiles for the second DBTL cycle that would increase production. These strategies resulted in a 21% increase in dodecanol titer in Cycle 2 (up to 0.83 g/L, which is more than 6-fold greater than previously reported batch values for minimal medium). Beyond specific lessons learned about optimizing dodecanol titer in E. coli, this study had findings of broader relevance across synthetic biology applications, such as the importance of sequencing checks on plasmids in production strains as well as in cloning strains, and the critical need for more accurate protein expression predictive tools.
PXD012247	31073891	Capillary Zone Electrophoresis-Tandem Mass Spectrometry with Activated Ion Electron Transfer Dissociation for Large-scale Top-down Proteomics. 	Capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry with activated ion electron transfer dissociation for large-scale top-down proteomics	AI-ETD, CZE-MS, E. coli, top-down proteomics	Capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) has been recognized as an efficient approach for top-down proteomics recently for its high-capacity separation and highly sensitive detection of proteoforms. However, the commonly used collision-based dissociation methods often cannot provide extensive fragmentation of proteoforms for thorough characterization. Activated ion electron transfer dissociation (AI-ETD), that combines infrared photoactivation concurrent with ETD, has shown better performance for proteoform fragmentation than higher energy-collisional dissociation (HCD) and standard ETD. Here, we present the first application of CZE-AI-ETD on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer for large-scale top-down proteomics of Escherichia coli (E. coli) cells. CZE-AI-ETD outperformed CZE-ETD regarding proteoform and protein identifications (IDs). CZE-AI-ETD reached comparable proteoform and protein IDs with CZE-HCD. CZE-AI-ETD tended to generate better expectation values (E values) of proteoforms than CZE-HCD and CZE-ETD, indicating a higher quality of MS/MS spectra from AI-ETD respecting the number of sequence-informative fragment ions generated. CZE-AI-ETD showed great reproducibility regarding the proteoform and protein IDs with relative standard deviations less than 4% and 2% (n = 3). Coupling size exclusion chromatography (SEC) to CZE-AI-ETD identified 3028 proteoforms and 387 proteins from E. coli cells with 1% spectrum level and 5% proteoform-level false discovery rates. The data represents the largest top-down proteomics dataset using the AI-ETD method so far. Single-shot CZE-AI-ETD of one SEC fraction identified 957 proteoforms and 253 proteins. N-terminal truncations, signal peptide cleavage, N-terminal methionine removal, and various post-translational modifications including protein N-terminal acetylation, methylation, S-thiolation, disulfide bonds, and lysine succinylation were detected.
PXD011647	31074987	An Integrated Analysis of Metabolites, Peptides, and Inflammation Biomarkers for Assessment of Preanalytical Variability of Human Plasma. 	LC-MS/MS of Human Plasma Peptides	peptides, plasma	Discrepancies in blood sample collection and processing could have a significant impact on levels of metabolites, peptides, and protein biomarkers of inflammation in the blood; thus, sample quality control is critical for successful biomarker identification and validation. In this study, we analyzed the effects of several preanalytical processing conditions, including different storage times and temperatures for blood or plasma samples and different centrifugation forces on the levels of metabolites, peptides, and inflammation biomarkers in human plasma samples using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) as an anticoagulant. Temperature was found to be the major factor for metabolite variation, and both time and temperature were identified as major factors for peptide variation. For inflammation biomarkers, temperature played different roles depending on the sample type (blood or plasma). Low temperature affected inflammation biomarkers in blood, while room temperature impacted inflammation biomarkers in plasma.
PXD012143	31075098	Cyclic AMP signalling controls key components of malaria parasite host cell invasion machinery. 	Cyclic AMP signalling controls key components of malaria parasite host cell invasion machinery	AMA1, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Plasmodium falciparum, adenylyl cyclase beta, cAMPdependent protein kinase, cyclic nucleotide signalling, host cell invasion, malaria	Cyclic AMP (cAMP) is an important signalling molecule across evolution, but its role in malaria parasites is poorly understood. We have investigated the role of cAMP in asexual blood stage development of Plasmodium falciparum through conditional disruption of adenylyl cyclase beta (ACbeta) and its downstream effector, cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). We show that both production of cAMP and activity of PKA are critical for erythrocyte invasion, whilst key developmental steps that precede invasion still take place in the absence of cAMP-dependent signalling. We also show that another parasite protein with putative cyclic nucleotide binding sites, Plasmodium falciparum EPAC (PfEpac), does not play an essential role in blood stages. We identify and quantify numerous sites, phosphorylation of which is dependent on cAMP signalling, and we provide mechanistic insight as to how cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of the cytoplasmic domain of the essential invasion adhesin apical membrane antigen 1 (AMA1) regulates erythrocyte invasion.
PXD012549	31076518	SETD1A Methyltransferase Is Physically and Functionally Linked to the DNA Damage Repair Protein RAD18. 	IPs of SETD1A COMPASS-HUMAN LC-MSMS	SETD1A COMPASS	SETD1A is a SET domain-containing methyltransferase involved in epigenetic regulation of transcription. It is the main catalytic component of a multiprotein complex that methylates lysine 4 of histone H3, a histone mark associated with gene activation. In humans, six related protein complexes with partly nonredundant cellular functions share several protein subunits but are distinguished by unique catalytic SET-domain proteins. We surveyed physical interactions of the SETD1A-complex using endogenous immunoprecipitation followed by label-free quantitative proteomics on three subunits: SETD1A, RBBP5, and ASH2L. Surprisingly, SETD1A, but not RBBP5 or ASH2L, was found to interact with the DNA damage repair protein RAD18. Reciprocal RAD18 immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed the interaction with SETD1A, whereas size exclusion and protein network analysis suggested an interaction independent of the main SETD1A complex. We found evidence of SETD1A and RAD18 influence on mutual gene expression levels. Further, knockdown of the genes individually showed a DNA damage repair phenotype, whereas simultaneous knockdown resulted in an epistatic effect. This adds to a growing body of work linking epigenetic enzymes to processes involved in genome stability.
PXD003928	31076588	Cryo-Electron Tomography and Proteomics studies of centrosomes from differentiated quiescent thymocytes. 	Structure and proteomics on centrosome  from differentiated and quiescent cells:  the thymocyte case	Centriolar disengagement, Centrosome, Cohesin, Cryo-tomography	We have used cryo Electron Tomography, proteomics and immunolabeling to study centrosomes isolated from the young lamb thymus, an efficient source of quiescent differentiated cells. We compared the proteome of thymocyte centrosomes to data published for KE37 cells, focusing on proteins associated with centriole disengagement and centrosome separation. The data obtained enhances our understanding of the protein system joining the centrioles, a system comprised of a branched network of fibers linked to an apparently amorphous density that was partially characterized here. A number of proteins were localized to the amorphous density by immunolabeling (C-NAP1, cohesin SMC1, condensin SMC4 and NCAPD2), yet not DNA. In conjuction, these data not only extend our understanding of centrosomes but they will help refine the model that focus on the protein system associated with the centriolar junction.
PXD011261	31077676	Molecular basis for the protective effects of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1)-derived peptides against LDL aggregation. 	Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1)-derived peptides protect against aggregation of LDL and cholesterol loading of vascular cells. Molecular and Cellular basis for antiatherosclerotic efficacy	ApoB-100, atherosclerosis, limited proteolysis	Aggregated LDL is the first ligand reported to interact with the cluster II CR9 domain of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1). In particular, the C-terminal half of domain CR9, comprising the region Gly(1127)-Cys(1140) exclusively recognizes aggregated LDL and it is crucial for aggregated LDL binding. Our aim was to study the effect of the sequence Gly(1127)-Cys(1140) (named peptide LP3 and its retro-enantio version, named peptide DP3) on the structural characteristics of sphingomyelinase- (SMase) and phospholipase 2 (PLA2)-modified LDL particles. Turbidimetry, gel filtration chromatography (GFC) and transmission electronic microscopy (TEM) analysis showed that LP3 and DP3 peptides strongly inhibited SMase- and PLA2-induced LDL aggregation. Nondenaturing polyacrylamide gradient gel electrophoresis (GGE), agarose gel electrophoresis and high-performance thin-layer chromatography (HPTLC) indicated that LP3 and DP3 prevented SMase-induced alterations in LDL particle size, electric charge and phospholipid content, respectively, but not those induced by PLA2. Western blot analysis showed that LP3 and DP3 counteracted changes in ApoB-100 conformation induced by the two enzymes. LDL proteomics (LDL trypsin digestion followed by mass spectroscopy) and computational modeling methods evidenced that peptides preserve ApoB-100 conformation due to their electrostatic interactions with a basic region of ApoB-100. These results demonstrate that LRP1-derived peptides are protective against LDL aggregation, even in conditions of extreme lipolysis, through their capacity to bind to ApoB-100 regions critical for ApoB-100 conformational preservation. These results suggests that these LRP1(CR9) derived peptides could be promising tools to prevent LDL aggregation induced by the main proteolytic enzymes acting in the arterial intima.
PXD012043	31078528	Adaptation of Human iPSC-Derived Cardiomyocytes to Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Reduces Acute Cardiotoxicity via Metabolic Reprogramming. 	Total protein profiles of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes in response to four tyrosine kinase inhibitors	Tandem Mass Tag Mass Spectrometry, aerobic glycolysis, cardiotoxicity, drug adaptation, human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocyte, mitochondrial respiration, tyrosine kinase inhibitor	Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are widely used to treat solid tumors but can be cardiotoxic. The molecular basis for this toxicity and its relationship to therapeutic mechanisms remain unclear; we therefore undertook a systems-level analysis of human cardiomyocytes (CMs) exposed to four TKIs. CMs differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) were exposed to sunitinib, sorafenib, lapatinib, or erlotinib, and responses were assessed by functional assays, microscopy, RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry (GEO: GSE114686; PRIDE: PXD012043). TKIs have diverse effects on hiPSC-CMs distinct from inhibition of tyrosine-kinase-mediated signal transduction; cardiac metabolism is particularly sensitive. Following sorafenib treatment, oxidative phosphorylation is downregulated, resulting in a profound defect in mitochondrial energetics. Cells adapt by upregulating aerobic glycolysis. Adaptation makes cells less acutely sensitive to sorafenib but may have long-term negative consequences. Thus, CMs exhibit adaptive responses to anti-cancer drugs conceptually similar to those previously shown in tumors to mediate drug resistance.
PXD009222	31079452	GlycopeptideGraphMS: Improved Glycopeptide Detection and Identification by Exploiting Graph Theoretical Patterns in Mass and Retention Time. 	HEK-AXL glycopeptides supporting GlycopeptideGraphMS development	AXL, ProteomeXchange project tag: Reference, bioinformatics, cancer, glycoprotein	The leading proteomic method for identifying N-glycosylated peptides is liquid chromatography coupled with tandem fragmentation mass spectrometry (LCMS/MS) followed by spectral matching of MS/MS fragment masses to a database of possible glycan and peptide combinations. Such database-dependent approaches come with challenges such as needing high-quality informative MS/MS spectra, ignoring unexpected glycan or peptide sequences, and making incorrect assignments because some glycan combinations are equivalent in mass to amino acids. To address these challenges, we present GlycopeptideGraphMS, a graph theoretical bioinformatic approach complementary to the database-dependent method. Using the AXL receptor tyrosine kinase (AXL) as a model glycoprotein with multiple N-glycosylation sites, we show that those LCMS features that could be grouped into graph networks on the basis of glycan mass and retention time differences were actually N-glycopeptides with the same peptide backbone but different N-glycan compositions. Conversely, unglycosylated peptides did not exhibit this grouping behavior. Furthermore, MS/MS sequencing of the glycan and peptide composition of just one N-glycopeptide in the graph was sufficient to identify the rest of the N-glycopeptides in the graph. By validating the identifications with exoglycosidase cocktails and MS/MS fragmentation, we determined the experimental false discovery rate of identifications to be 2.21%. GlycopeptideGraphMS detected more than 500 unique N-glycopeptides from AXL, triple the number found by a database search with Byonic software, and detected incorrect assignments due to a nonspecific protease cleavage. This method overcomes some limitations of the database approach and is a step closer to comprehensive automated glycoproteomics.
PXD011785	31080378	Quantitative proteomic analyses of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells reveal differentially expressed proteins in multiple sclerosis patients and healthy controls. 	Quantitative proteomic analyses of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells reveals differentially expressed proteins in multiple sclerosis patients and healthy controls	immune cells CD4 CD8	BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune, neuroinflammatory disease, with an unclear etiology. However, T cells play a central role in the pathogenesis by crossing the blood-brain-barrier, leading to inflammation of the central nervous system and demyelination of the protective sheath surrounding the nerve fibers. MS has a complex inheritance pattern, and several studies indicate that gene interactions with environmental factors contribute to disease onset. METHODS: In the current study, we evaluated T cell dysregulation at the protein level using electrospray liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to get novel insights into immune-cell processes in MS. We have analyzed the proteomic profiles of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells purified from whole blood from 13 newly diagnosed, treatment-naive female patients with relapsing-remitting MS and 14 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. RESULTS: An overall higher protein abundance was observed in both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from MS patients when compared to healthy controls. The differentially expressed proteins were enriched for T-cell specific activation pathways, especially CTLA4 and CD28 signaling in CD4(+) T cells. When selectively analyzing proteins expressed from the genes most proximal to > 200 non-HLA MS susceptibility polymorphisms, we observed differential expression of eight proteins in T cells between MS patients and healthy controls, and there was a correlation between the genotype at three MS genetic risk loci and protein expressed from proximal genes. CONCLUSION: Our study provides evidence for proteomic differences in T cells from relapsing-remitting MS patients compared to healthy controls and also identifies dysregulation of proteins encoded from MS susceptibility genes.
PXD006141	31080447	Exploring the Potential Role of Moonlighting Function of the Surface-Associated Proteins From Mycobacterium bovis BCG Moreau and Pasteur by Comparative Proteomic. 	Exploring the potential role of moonlighting function of the surface-associated proteins from Mycobacterium bovis BCG Moreau and Pasteur by comparative proteomic	Mycobacterium bovis BCG Moreau, moonlighting function, surface-associated proteins	Surface-associated proteins from Mycobacterium bovis BCG Moreau RDJ are important components of the live Brazilian vaccine against tuberculosis. They are important targets during initial BCG vaccine stimulation and modulation of the host's immune response, especially in the bacterial-host interaction. These proteins might also be involved in cellular communication, chemical response to the environment, pathogenesis processes through mobility, colonization, and adherence to the host cell, therefore performing multiple functions. In this study, the proteomic profile of the surface-associated proteins from M. bovis BCG Moreau was compared to the BCG Pasteur reference strain. The methodology used was 2DE gel electrophoresis combined with mass spectrometry techniques (MALDI-TOF/TOF), leading to the identification of 115 proteins. Of these, 24 proteins showed differential expression between the two BCG strains. Furthermore, 27 proteins previously described as displaying moonlighting function were identified, 8 of these proteins showed variation in abundance comparing BCG Moreau to Pasteur and 2 of them presented two different domain hits. Moonlighting proteins are multifunctional proteins in which two or more biological functions are fulfilled by a single polypeptide chain. Therefore, the identification of such proteins with moonlighting predicted functions can contribute to a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms unleashed by live BCG Moreau RDJ vaccine components.
PXD013423	31081165	Hepatocyte Deletion of Triglyceride-Synthesis Enzyme Acyl CoA: Diacylglycerol Acyltransferase 2 Reduces Steatosis Without Increasing Inflammation or Fibrosis in Mice. 	Hepatocyte Deletion of Triglyceride-Synthesis Enzyme DGAT2 Reduces Steatosis without Increasing Inflammation or Fibrosis	Triacylglycerol, diacylglycerol, dietary lipids, liver, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, steatohepatitis	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by excess lipid accumulation in hepatocytes and represents a huge public health problem owing to its propensity to progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and liver failure. The lipids stored in hepatic steatosis (HS) are primarily triglycerides (TGs) synthesized by two acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) enzymes. Either DGAT1 or DGAT2 catalyzes this reaction, and these enzymes have been suggested to differentially utilize exogenous or endogenously synthesized fatty acids, respectively. DGAT2 has been linked to storage of fatty acids from de novo lipogenesis, a process increased in NAFLD. However, whether DGAT2 is more responsible for lipid accumulation in NAFLD and progression to fibrosis is currently unknown. Also, it is unresolved whether DGAT2 can be safely inhibited as a therapy for NAFLD. Here, we induced NAFLD-like disease in mice by feeding a diet rich in fructose, saturated fat, and cholesterol and found that hepatocyte-specific Dgat2 deficiency reduced expression of de novo lipogenesis genes and lowered liver TGs by ~70%. Importantly, the reduction in steatosis was not accompanied by increased inflammation or fibrosis, and insulin and glucose metabolism were unchanged. Conclusion: This study suggests that hepatic DGAT2 deficiency successfully reduces diet-induced HS and supports development of DGAT2 inhibitors as a therapeutic strategy for treating NAFLD and preventing downstream consequences.
PXD010796	31083951	Optimized Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry for in Situ Interaction Proteomics. 	Optimized cross-linking mass spectrometry for in situ interaction proteomics	Chromatin, Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry	Recent development of mass spectrometer cleavable protein cross-linkers and algorithms for their spectral identification now permits large-scale cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS). Here, we optimized the use of cleavable disuccinimidyl sulfoxide (DSSO) cross-linker for labeling native protein complexes in live human cells. We applied a generalized linear mixture model to calibrate cross-link peptide-spectra matching (CSM) scores to control the sensitivity and specificity of large-scale XL-MS. Using specific CSM score thresholds to control the false discovery rate, we found that higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) and electron transfer dissociation (ETD) can both be effective for large-scale XL-MS protein interaction mapping. We found that the coverage of protein-protein interaction maps is significantly improved through the use of multiple proteases. In addition, the use of focused sample-specific search databases can be used to improve the specificity of cross-linked peptide spectral matching. Application of this approach to human chromatin labeled in live cells recapitulated known and revealed new protein interactions of nucleosomes and other chromatin-associated complexes in situ. This optimized approach for mapping native protein interactions should be useful for a wide range of biological problems.
PXD012591	31085165	Assessment of protein extraction and digestion efficiency of well-established shotgun protocols for heart proteomics. 	Assessment of protein extraction and digestion efficiency of well-established shotgun protocols for heart proteomics	FASP, Heart, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Rat, dimethyl labeling	Ischemic heart disease is the leading cause of deaths worldwide. Thus, understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying disease progression is needed. Due to heart importance and lack of studies evaluating different sample preparation methods for heart proteomics, we compared three well-established protocols in shotgun proteomics using dimethyl label quantitation to allow relative quantitation. The tested methods for the analysis of left ventricle (LV) tissue were: i) in-solution digestion (ISD); ii) on-pellet digestion (OPD); and iii) on-filter digestion (OFD). Protein extraction was done using SDS-containing buffer for OPD and OFD while this step was under urea-containing buffer for ISD. We used an optimized one-step reaction for reduction of disulfide bonds and alkylation of thiol groups in ISD and OPD. Using the same amount of tissue, we observed that OFD and ISD extracted significantly higher amount of protein than OPD. ISD outperformed OFD and OPD in the number of proteins identified. We did not observe significant bias related to physicochemical features of the identified proteins when comparing the three protocols. ISD was more efficient to identify low abundant proteins and yielded more proteins per protocol duration. Thus, we concluded that the optimized ISD suited better for heart proteomics than OFD and OPD.
PXD010193	31085176	BCL2 Amplicon Loss and Transcriptional Remodeling Drives ABT-199 Resistance in B Cell Lymphoma Models. 	BCL2 amplicon loss and super-enhancer remodeling drives ABT-199 resistance	ABPP, apoptosis, lymphoma, persister	Drug-tolerant "persister" tumor cells underlie emergence of drug-resistant clones and contribute to relapse and disease progression. Here we report that resistance to the BCL-2 targeting drug ABT-199 in models of mantle cell lymphoma and double-hit lymphoma evolves from outgrowth of persister clones displaying loss of 18q21 amplicons that harbor BCL2. Further, persister status is generated via adaptive super-enhancer remodeling that reprograms transcription and offers opportunities for overcoming ABT-199 resistance. Notably, pharmacoproteomic and pharmacogenomic screens revealed that persisters are vulnerable to inhibition of the transcriptional machinery and especially to inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (CDK7), which is essential for the transcriptional reprogramming that drives and sustains ABT-199 resistance. Thus, transcription-targeting agents offer new approaches to disable drug resistance in B-cell lymphomas.
PXD012241	31085703	The Ser/Thr Kinase PrkC Participates in Cell Wall Homeostasis and Antimicrobial Resistance in Clostridium difficile. 	The role of the Ser/Thr kinase PrkC of Clostridium difficile in cell wall homeostasis and antimicrobial resistance.	Clostridium difficile, QExactive HF, Shotgun proteomics, cell wall	Clostridium difficile is the leading cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in adults. During infection, C. difficile must detect the host environment and induce an appropriate survival strategy. Signal transduction networks involving serine/threonine kinases (STKs) play key roles in adaptation, as they regulate numerous physiological processes. PrkC of C. difficile is an STK with two PASTA domains. We showed that PrkC is membrane associated and is found at the septum. We observed that deletion of prkC affects cell morphology with an increase in mean size, cell length heterogeneity, and presence of abnormal septa. A DeltaprkC mutant was able to sporulate and germinate but was less motile and formed more biofilm than the wild-type strain. Moreover, a DeltaprkC mutant was more sensitive to antimicrobial compounds that target the cell envelope, such as the secondary bile salt deoxycholate, cephalosporins, cationic antimicrobial peptides, and lysozyme. This increased susceptibility was not associated with differences in peptidoglycan or polysaccharide II composition. However, the DeltaprkC mutant had less peptidoglycan and released more polysaccharide II into the supernatant. A proteomic analysis showed that the majority of C. difficile proteins associated with the cell wall were less abundant in the DeltaprkC mutant than the wild-type strain. Finally, in a hamster model of infection, the DeltaprkC mutant had a colonization delay that did not significantly affect overall virulence.
PXD012805	31086302	Diverse compounds from pleuromutilin lead to a thioredoxin inhibitor and inducer of ferroptosis. 	Diverse Compounds from Pleuromutilin Lead to a Thioredoxin Inhibitor and Inducer of Ferroptosis	ferroptosis, thioredoxin	The chemical diversification of natural products provides a robust and general method for the creation of stereochemically rich and structurally diverse small molecules. The resulting compounds have physicochemical traits different from those in most screening collections, and as such are an excellent source for biological discovery. Herein, we subject the diterpene natural product pleuromutilin to reaction sequences focused on creating ring system diversity in few synthetic steps. This effort resulted in a collection of compounds with previously unreported ring systems, providing a novel set of structurally diverse and highly complex compounds suitable for screening in a variety of different settings. Biological evaluation identified the novel compound ferroptocide, a small molecule that rapidly and robustly induces ferroptotic death of cancer cells. Target identification efforts and CRISPR knockout studies reveal that ferroptocide is an inhibitor of thioredoxin, a key component of the antioxidant system in the cell. Ferroptocide positively modulates the immune system in a murine model of breast cancer and will be a useful tool to study the utility of pro-ferroptotic agents for treatment of cancer.
PXD012663	31086567	Unraveling essential cellulosomal components of the (Pseudo)Bacteroides cellulosolvens reveals an extensive reservoir of novel catalytic enzymes. 	Unraveling the essential cellulosomal components of the (Pseudo)Bacteroides cellulosolvens by massive proteomic analysis	Biotechnology, CBM, Cellulases, Cellulolytic bacteria, Cohesin, Dockerin, Enzymatic hydrolysis, Glycoside hydrolases, Scaffoldin	BACKGROUND: (Pseudo)Bacteroides cellulosolvens is a cellulolytic bacterium that produces the most extensive and intricate cellulosomal system known in nature. Recently, the elaborate architecture of the B. cellulosolvens cellulosomal system was revealed from analysis of its genome sequence, and the first evidence regarding the interactions between its structural and enzymatic components were detected in vitro. Yet, the understanding of the cellulolytic potential of the bacterium in carbohydrate deconstruction is inextricably linked to its high-molecular-weight protein complexes, which are secreted from the bacterium. RESULTS: The current proteome-wide work reveals patterns of protein expression of the various cellulosomal components, and explores the signature of differential expression upon growth of the bacterium on two major carbon sources-cellobiose and microcrystalline cellulose. Mass spectrometry analysis of the bacterial secretome revealed the expression of 24 scaffoldin structural units and 166 dockerin-bearing components (mainly enzymes), in addition to free enzymatic subunits. The dockerin-bearing components comprise cell-free and cell-bound cellulosomes for more efficient carbohydrate degradation. Various glycoside hydrolase (GH) family members were represented among 102 carbohydrate-degrading enzymes, including the omnipresent, most abundant GH48 exoglucanase. Specific cellulosomal components were found in different molecular-weight fractions associated with cell growth on different carbon sources. Overall, microcrystalline cellulose-derived cellulosomes showed markedly higher expression levels of the structural and enzymatic components, and exhibited the highest degradation activity on five different cellulosic and/or hemicellulosic carbohydrates. The cellulosomal activity of B. cellulosolvens showed high degradation rates that are very promising in biotechnological terms and were compatible with the activity levels exhibited by Clostridium thermocellum purified cellulosomes. CONCLUSIONS: The current research demonstrates the involvement of key cellulosomal factors that participate in the mechanism of carbohydrate degradation by B. cellulosolvens. The powerful ability of the bacterium to exhibit different degradation strategies on various carbon sources was revealed. The novel reservoir of cellulolytic components of the cellulosomal degradation machineries may serve as a pool for designing new cellulolytic cocktails for biotechnological purposes.
PXD011695	31088857	Interactive Peptide Spectral Annotator: A Versatile Web-based Tool for Proteomic Applications. 	Interactive Peptide Spectral Annotator Experimental Data	AI-ETD, AI-ETD+, ETD, ETcaD, EThcD, HCD, NETD, Shotgun Proteomics	Here we present IPSA, an innovative web-based spectrum annotator that visualizes and characterizes peptide tandem mass spectra. A tool for the scientific community, IPSA can visualize peptides collected using a wide variety of experimental and instrumental configurations. Annotated spectra are customizable via a selection of interactive features and can be exported as editable scalable vector graphics to aid in the production of publication-quality figures. Single spectra can be analyzed through provided web forms, whereas data for multiple peptide spectral matches can be uploaded using the Proteomics Standards Initiative file formats mzTab, mzIdentML, and mzML. Alternatively, peptide identifications and spectral data can be provided using generic file formats. IPSA provides supports for annotating spectra collecting using negative-mode ionization and facilitates the characterization of experimental MS/MS performance through the optional export of fragment ion statistics from one to many peptide spectral matches. This resource is made freely accessible at http://interactivepeptidespectralannotator.com, whereas the source code and user guides are available at https://github.com/coongroup/IPSA for private hosting or custom implementations.
PXD012373	31089132	Nucleoporin Nup155 is part of the p53 network in liver cancer. 	Nuclear pore component Nup155 is part of the p53 network in liver cancer	cancer, liver, nuclear pore, p53	Cancer-relevant signalling pathways rely on bidirectional nucleocytoplasmic transport events through the nuclear pore complex (NPC). However, mechanisms by which individual NPC components (Nups) participate in the regulation of these pathways remain poorly understood. We discover by integrating large scale proteomics, polysome fractionation and a focused RNAi approach that Nup155 controls mRNA translation of p21 (CDKN1A), a key mediator of the p53 response. The underlying mechanism involves transcriptional regulation of the putative tRNA and rRNA methyltransferase FTSJ1 by Nup155. Furthermore, we observe that Nup155 and FTSJ1 are p53 repression targets and accordingly find a correlation between the p53 status, Nup155 and FTSJ1 expression in murine and human hepatocellular carcinoma. Our data suggest an unanticipated regulatory network linking translational control by and repression of a structural NPC component modulating the p53 pathway through its effectors.
PXD010986	31090233	The impact of postsynaptic density 95 blocking peptide (Tat-NR2B9c) and an iNOS inhibitor (1400W) on proteomic profile of the hippocampus in C57BL/6J mouse model of kainate-induced epileptogenesis. 	Proteomic profile of mouse hippocampus following kainate-induced epileptogenesis C4PR_LIV	Hippocampus, Kainic acid, epileptogenesis	Antiepileptogenic agents that prevent the development of epilepsy following a brain insult remain the holy grail of epilepsy therapeutics. We have employed a label-free proteomic approach that allows quantification of large numbers of brain-expressed proteins in a single analysis in the mouse (male C57BL/6J) kainate (KA) model of epileptogenesis. In addition, we have incorporated two putative antiepileptogenic drugs, postsynaptic density protein-95 blocking peptide (PSD95BP or Tat-NR2B9c) and a highly selective inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 1400W, to give an insight into how such agents might ameliorate epileptogenesis. The test drugs were administered after the induction of status epilepticus (SE) and the animals were euthanized at 7 days, their hippocampi removed, and subjected to LC-MS/MS analysis. A total of 2,579 proteins were identified; their normalized abundance was compared between treatment groups using ANOVA, with correction for multiple testing by false discovery rate. Significantly altered proteins were subjected to gene ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses. KA-induced SE was most robustly associated with an alteration in the abundance of proteins involved in neuroinflammation, including heat shock protein beta-1 (HSP27), glial fibrillary acidic protein, and CD44 antigen. Treatment with PSD95BP or 1400W moderated the abundance of several of these proteins plus that of secretogranin and Src substrate cortactin. Pathway analysis identified the glutamatergic synapse as a key target for both drugs. Our observations require validation in a larger-scale investigation, with candidate proteins explored in more detail. Nevertheless, this study has identified several mechanisms by which epilepsy might develop and several targets for novel drug development. OPEN PRACTICES: This article has been awarded Open Data. All materials and data are publicly accessible as supporting information. Learn more about the Open Practices badges from the Center for Open Science: https://osf.io/tvyxz/wiki.
PXD011137	31091291	In-depth proteomic characterization of Schistosoma haematobium: Towards the development of new tools for elimination. 	Schistosoma haematobium proteomes	ES, Schistosoma haematobium, egg, tegument	BACKGROUND: Schistosomiasis is a neglected disease affecting hundreds of millions worldwide. Of the three main species affecting humans, Schistosoma haematobium is the most common, and is the leading cause of urogenital schistosomiasis. S. haematobium infection can cause different urogenital clinical complications, particularly in the bladder, and furthermore, this parasite has been strongly linked with squamous cell carcinoma. A comprehensive analysis of the molecular composition of its different proteomes will contribute to developing new tools against this devastating disease. METHODS AND FINDINGS: By combining a comprehensive protein fractionation approach consisting of OFFGEL electrophoresis with high-throughput mass spectrometry, we have performed the first in-depth characterisation of the different discrete proteomes of S. haematobium that are predicted to interact with human host tissues, including the secreted and tegumental proteomes of adult flukes and secreted and soluble egg proteomes. A total of 662, 239, 210 and 138 proteins were found in the adult tegument, adult secreted, soluble egg and secreted egg proteomes, respectively. In addition, we probed these distinct proteomes with urine to assess urinary antibody responses from naturally infected human subjects with different infection intensities, and identified adult fluke secreted and tegument extracts as being the best predictors of infection. CONCLUSION: We provide a comprehensive dataset of proteins from the adult and egg stages of S. haematobium and highlight their utility as diagnostic markers of infection intensity. Protein composition was markedly different between the different extracts, highlighting the distinct subsets of proteins that different development stages present in their different niches. Furthermore, we have identified adult fluke ES and tegument extracts as best predictors of infection using urine antibodies of naturally infected people. This study provides the first steps towards the development of novel tools to control this important neglected tropical disease.
PXD012348	31092671	Redundancy and Complementarity between ERAP1 and ERAP2 Revealed by their Effects on the Behcet's Disease-associated HLA-B*51 Peptidome. 	Redundancy and Complementarity between ERAP1 and ERAP2 Revealed by their Effects on the Behet's Disease-Associated HLA-B*51 Peptidome	Behet's Disease, ERAP1, ERAP2, HLA-B*51, peptidome	The endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidases ERAP1 and ERAP2 trim peptides to be loaded onto HLA molecules, including the main risk factor for Behcet's disease HLA-B*51. ERAP1 is also a risk factor among HLA-B*51-positive individuals, whereas no association is known with ERAP2. This study addressed the mutual relationships between both enzymes in the processing of an HLA-bound peptidome, interrogating their differential association with Behcet's disease. CRISPR/Cas9 was used to generate knock outs of ERAP1, ERAP2 or both from transfectant 721.221-HLA-B*51:01 cells. The surface expression of HLA-B*51 was reduced in all cases. The effects of depleting each or both enzymes on the B*51:01 peptidome were analyzed by quantitative label-free mass spectrometry. Substantial quantitative alterations of peptide length, subpeptidome balance, N-terminal residue usage, affinity and presentation of noncanonical ligands were observed. These effects were often different in the presence or absence of the other enzyme, revealing their mutual dependence. In the absence of ERAP1, ERAP2 showed similar and significant processing of B*51:01 ligands, indicating functional redundancy. The high overlap between the peptidomes of wildtype and double KO cells indicates that a large majority of B*51:01 ligands are present in the ER even in the absence of ERAP1/ERAP2. These results indicate that both enzymes have distinct, but complementary and partially redundant effects on the B*51:01 peptidome, leading to its optimization and maximal surface expression. The distinct effects of both enzymes on the HLA-B*51 peptidome provide a basis for their differential association with Behcet's disease and suggest a pathogenetic role of the B*51:01 peptidome.
PXD010728	31092672	Integrated Analysis of Transcriptomic, miRNA and Proteomic Changes of a Novel Hybrid Yellow Catfish Uncovers Key Roles for miRNAs in Heterosis. 	Conjoint analysis of transcriptional and protein changes in heterosis of hybrid yellow catfish Huangyou-1 uncovers key roles for miRNAs	heterosis, hybrid catfish, miRNA-mRNA-protein, miRNAome, transcriptome	Heterosis is a complex biological phenomenon in which hybridization produces offspring that exhibit superior phenotypic characteristics compared with the parents. Heterosis is widely utilized in agriculture, for example in fish farming; however, its underlying molecular basis remains elusive. To gain a comprehensive and unbiased molecular understanding of fish heterosis, we analyzed the mRNA, miRNA, and proteomes of the livers of three catfish species, Pelteobagrus fulvidraco, P. vachelli, and their hybrid, the hybrid yellow catfish "Huangyou-1" (P. fulvidraco female x P. vachelli male). Using next-generation sequencing and mass spectrometry, we show that the nonadditive, homoeolog expression bias and expression level dominance pattern were readily identified at the transcriptional, post-transcriptional, or protein levels, providing the evidence for the widespread presence of dominant models during hybridization. A number of predicted miRNA-mRNA-protein pairs were found and validated by qRT-PCR and PRM assays. Furthermore, several diverse key pathways were identified, including immune defense, metabolism, digestion and absorption, and cell proliferation and development, suggesting the vital mechanisms involved in the generation of the heterosis phenotype in progenies. We propose that the high parental expression of genes/proteins (growth, nutrition, feeding, and disease resistance) coupled with low parental miRNAs of the offspring, are inherited from the mother or father, thus indicating that the offspring were enriched with the advantages of the father or mother. We provide new and important information about the molecular mechanisms of heterosis, which represents a significant step toward a more complete elucidation of this phenomenon.
PXD011826	31095564	The most abundant cyst wall proteins of Acanthamoeba castellanii are lectins that bind cellulose and localize to distinct structures in developing and mature cyst walls. 	Identification and characterization of Acanthamoeba cyst wall proteins	Acanthamoeba, cyst wall proteins, lectins	BACKGROUND: Acanthamoeba castellanii, which causes keratitis and blindness in under-resourced countries, is an emerging pathogen worldwide, because of its association with contact lens use. The wall makes cysts resistant to sterilizing reagents in lens solutions and to antibiotics applied to the eye. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Transmission electron microscopy and structured illumination microscopy (SIM) showed purified cyst walls of A. castellanii retained an outer ectocyst layer, an inner endocyst layer, and conical ostioles that connect them. Mass spectrometry showed candidate cyst wall proteins were dominated by three families of lectins (named here Jonah, Luke, and Leo), which bound well to cellulose and less well to chitin. An abundant Jonah lectin, which has one choice-of-anchor A (CAA) domain, was made early during encystation and localized to the ectocyst layer of cyst walls. An abundant Luke lectin, which has two carbohydrate-binding modules (CBM49), outlined small, flat ostioles in a single-layered primordial wall and localized to the endocyst layer and ostioles of mature walls. An abundant Leo lectin, which has two unique domains with eight Cys residues each (8-Cys), localized to the endocyst layer and ostioles. The Jonah lectin and glycopolymers, to which it binds, were accessible in the ectocyst layer. In contrast, Luke and Leo lectins and the glycopolymers, to which they bind, were mostly inaccessible in the endocyst layer and ostioles. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The most abundant A. castellanii cyst wall proteins are three sets of lectins, which have carbohydrate-binding modules that are conserved (CBM49s of Luke), newly characterized (CAA of Jonah), or unique to Acanthamoebae (8-Cys of Leo). Cyst wall formation is a tightly choreographed event, in which lectins and glycopolymers combine to form a mature wall with a protected endocyst layer. Because of its accessibility in the ectocyst layer, an abundant Jonah lectin is an excellent diagnostic target.
PXD013066	31095916	Therapy-Induced MHC I Ligands Shape Neo-Antitumor CD8 T Cell Responses during Oncolytic Virus-Based Cancer Immunotherapy. 	Reshaping of the MHC-I ligandome in response to reovirus-based cancer immunotherapy	CD8 T cell epitopes, MHC ligandome, Oncolytic virus, antitumor immunity, cancer immunotherapy, reovirus	Oncolytic viruses (OVs), known for their cancer-killing characteristics, also overturn tumor-associated defects in antigen presentation through the MHC class I pathway and induce protective neo-antitumor CD8 T cell responses. Nonetheless, whether OVs shape the tumor MHC-I ligandome remains unknown. Here, we investigated if an OV induces the presentation of novel MHC I-bound tumor antigens (termed tumor MHC-I ligands). Using comparative mass spectrometry (MS)-based MHC-I ligandomics, we determined differential tumor MHC-I ligand expression following treatment with oncolytic reovirus in a murine ovarian cancer model. In vitro, we found that reovirus changes the tumor ligandome of cancer cells. Concurrent multiplexed quantitative proteomics revealed that the reovirus-induced changes in tumor MHC-I ligand presentation were mostly independent of their source proteins. In an in vivo model, tumor MHC-I ligands induced by reovirus were detectable not only in tumor tissues but also the spleens (a source of antigen-presenting cells) of tumor-bearing mice. Most importantly, therapy-induced MHC-I ligands stimulated antigen-specific IFNgamma responses in antitumor CD8 T cells from mice treated with reovirus. These data show that therapy-induced MHC-I ligands may shape underlying neo-antitumor CD8 T cell responses. As such, they should be considered in strategies promoting the efficacy of OV-based cancer immunotherapies.
PXD011612	31096913	Comparative proteomic analysis of okra (Abelmoschus esculentus L.) seedlings under salt stress. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of okra (Abelmoschus esculentusL.) seedlings under salt stress	Differential expression protein, TMT labeling, heat shock proteins, okra, salt stress	BACKGROUND: Salinization seriously threatens land use efficiency and crop yields across the world. Understanding the mechanisms plants use to protect against salt stress will help breeders develop salt-tolerant vegetable crops. Okra (Abelmoschus esculentus L.) is an important vegetable crop of the mallow family, which is now cultivated in warm regions worldwide. To understand the effects of salt stress on the protein level of okra, a comparative proteomic analysis of okra seedlings grown in the presence of 0 or 300 mmol L(- 1) NaCl treatment was performed using an integrated approach of Tandem Mass Tag labeling and LC-MS/MS integrated approach. RESULTS: A total of 7179 proteins were identified in this study, for which quantitative information was available for 5774 proteins. In the NaCl/control comparison group, there were 317 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), of which 165 proteins were upregulated and 152 proteins downregulated in the presence of NaCl. Based on the above data, we carried out a systematic bioinformatics analysis of proteins with information, including protein annotation, domain characteristics, functional classification, and pathway enrichment. Enriched gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis showed that the DEPs were most strongly associated with "response to stress" and "protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum". Furthermore, several heat shock proteins were identified as DEPs. CONCLUSIONS: This information provides a reference direction for further research on the okra proteome in the downstream of the salt stress response, with our data revealing that the responses of okra to salt stress involves by various pathways.
PXD010790	31097591	Activation of unliganded FGF receptor by extracellular phosphate potentiates proteolytic protection of FGF23 by its O-glycosylation. 	LFQ of UMR106 pY-IP	LFQ, phosphotyrosine	Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 23 produced by bone is a hormone that decreases serum phosphate (Pi). Reflecting its central role in Pi control, serum FGF23 is tightly regulated by serum Pi alterations. FGF23 levels are regulated by the transcriptional event and posttranslational cleavage into inactive fragments before its secretion. For the latter, O-glycosylation of FGF23 by GALNT3 gene product prevents the cleavage, leading to an increase in serum FGF23. However, the molecular basis of Pi sensing in the regulation of serum FGF23 remains elusive. In this study, we showed that high Pi diet enhanced the skeletal expression of Galnt3, but not Fgf23, with expected increases in serum FGF23 and Pi in mice. Galnt3 induction by high Pi was further observed in osteoblastic UMR 106 cells, and this was mediated by activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. Through proteomic searches for the upstream sensor for high Pi, we identified one subtype of the FGF receptor (FGFR1c), which was phosphorylated by high Pi in the absence of FGFs. The mode of unliganded FGFR activation by high Pi appeared different from that of FGFR bound to a canonical FGFR ligand (FGF2) when phosphorylation of the FGFR substrate 2alpha and ERK was monitored. Finally, we showed that an FGFR inhibitor and conditional deletion of Fgfr1 in osteoblasts/osteocytes abrogated high Pi diet-induced increases in serum FGF23 and femoral Galnt3 expression in mice. Thus, these findings uncover an unrecognized facet of unliganded FGFR function and illustrate a Pi-sensing pathway involved in regulation of FGF23 production.
PXD011131	31097712	Proteome-wide detection of S-nitrosylation targets and motifs using bioorthogonal cleavable-linker-based enrichment and switch technique. 	Proteome-wide detection of cysteine nitrosylation targets and motifs using bio-orthogonal cleavable linker based enrichment and switch technique (Cys-BOOST)	Cysteine, PTM, nitrosylation	Cysteine modifications emerge as important players in cellular signaling and homeostasis. Here, we present a chemical proteomics strategy for quantitative analysis of reversibly modified Cysteines using bioorthogonal cleavable-linker and switch technique (Cys-BOOST). Compared to iodoTMT for total Cysteine analysis, Cys-BOOST shows a threefold higher sensitivity and considerably higher specificity and precision. Analyzing S-nitrosylation (SNO) in S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO)-treated and non-treated HeLa extracts Cys-BOOST identifies 8,304 SNO sites on 3,632 proteins covering a wide dynamic range of the proteome. Consensus motifs of SNO sites with differential GSNO reactivity confirm the relevance of both acid-base catalysis and local hydrophobicity for NO targeting to particular Cysteines. Applying Cys-BOOST to SH-SY5Y cells, we identify 2,151 SNO sites under basal conditions and reveal significantly changed SNO levels as response to early nitrosative stress, involving neuro(axono)genesis, glutamatergic synaptic transmission, protein folding/translation, and DNA replication. Our work suggests SNO as a global regulator of protein function akin to phosphorylation and ubiquitination.
PXD013008	31098411	Murine obscurin and Obsl1 have functionally redundant roles in sarcolemmal integrity, sarcoplasmic reticulum organization, and muscle metabolism. 	Obscurin and Obsl1 functions for "Murine obscurin and Obsl1 have functionally redundant roles in sarcolemmal integrity, sarcoplasmic reticulum organization, and muscle metabolism."	Obscurin, Obsl1, muscle metabolism, sarcolemmal integrity, sarcoplasmic reticulum organization	Biological roles of obscurin and its close homolog Obsl1 (obscurin-like 1) have been enigmatic. While obscurin is highly expressed in striated muscles, Obsl1 is found ubiquitously. Accordingly, obscurin mutations have been linked to myopathies, whereas mutations in Obsl1 result in 3M-growth syndrome. To further study unique and redundant functions of these closely related proteins, we generated and characterized Obsl1 knockouts. Global Obsl1 knockouts are embryonically lethal. In contrast, skeletal muscle-specific Obsl1 knockouts show a benign phenotype similar to obscurin knockouts. Only deletion of both proteins and removal of their functional redundancy revealed their roles for sarcolemmal stability and sarcoplasmic reticulum organization. To gain unbiased insights into changes to the muscle proteome, we analyzed tibialis anterior and soleus muscles by mass spectrometry, uncovering additional changes to the muscle metabolism. Our analyses suggest that all obscurin protein family members play functions for muscle membrane systems.
PXD010307	31099962	QCMAP: An Interactive Web-Tool for Performance Diagnosis and Prediction of LC-MS Systems. 	QCMAP Brain proteomics data -  QCMAP: An Interactive Web-Tool for Performance Diagnosis and Prediction of LC-MS Systems	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), brain, quality control	The increasing role played by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based proteomics in biological discovery has led to a growing need for quality control (QC) on the LC-MS systems. While numerous quality control tools have been developed to track the performance of LC-MS systems based on a pre-defined set of performance factors (e.g., mass error, retention time), the precise influence and contribution of the performance factors and their generalization property to different biological samples are not as well characterized. Here, a web-based application (QCMAP) is developed for interactive diagnosis and prediction of the performance of LC-MS systems across different biological sample types. Leveraging on a standardized HeLa cell sample run as QC within a multi-user facility, predictive models are trained on a panel of commonly used performance factors to pinpoint the precise conditions to a (un)satisfactory performance in three LC-MS systems. It is demonstrated that the learned model can be applied to predict LC-MS system performance for brain samples generated from an independent study. By compiling these predictive models into our web-application, QCMAP allows users to benchmark the performance of their LC-MS systems using their own samples and identify key factors for instrument optimization. QCMAP is freely available from: http://shiny.maths.usyd.edu.au/QCMAP/.
PXD009403	31101811	Airway response to respiratory syncytial virus has incidental antibacterial effects. 	Upper airway proteomes of infants and children in sub-Saharan Africa	Respiratory syncytial virus, naso- and oropharynx, respiratory infections	RSV infection is typically associated with secondary bacterial infection. We hypothesise that the local airway immune response to RSV has incidental antibacterial effects. Using coordinated proteomics and metagenomics analysis we simultaneously analysed the microbiota and proteomes of the upper airway and determined direct antibacterial activity in airway secretions of RSV-infected children. Here, we report that the airway abundance of Streptococcus was higher in samples collected at the time of RSV infection compared with samples collected one month later. RSV infection is associated with neutrophil influx into the airway and degranulation and is marked by overexpression of proteins with known antibacterial activity including BPI, EPX, MPO and AZU1. Airway secretions of children infected with RSV, have significantly greater antibacterial activity compared to RSV-negative controls. This RSV-associated, neutrophil-mediated antibacterial response in the airway appears to act as a regulatory mechanism that modulates bacterial growth in the airways of RSV-infected children.
PXD010166	31105878	Septin-2 is overexpressed in epithelial ovarian cancer and mediates proliferation via regulation of cellular metabolic proteins. 	Septin-2 is overexpressed in epithelial ovarian cancer and mediates proliferation via regulation of cellular metabolism proteins	Epithelial Ovarian Cancer, Septin2	Epithelial Ovarian Cancer (EOC) is associated with dismal survival rates due to the fact that patients are frequently diagnosed at an advanced stage and eventually become resistant to traditional chemotherapeutics. Hence, there is a crucial need for new and innovative therapies. Septin-2, a member of the septin family of GTP binding proteins, has been characterized in EOC for the first time and represents a potential future target. Septin-2 was found to be overexpressed in serous and clear cell human patient tissue compared to benign disease. Stable septin-2 knockdown clones developed in an ovarian cancer cell line exhibited a significant decrease in proliferation rates. Comparative label-free proteomic analysis of septin-2 knockdown cells revealed differential protein expression of pathways associated with the TCA cycle, acetyl CoA, proteasome and spliceosome. Further validation of target proteins indicated that septin-2 plays a predominant role in post-transcriptional and translational modifications as well as cellular metabolism, and suggested the potential novel role of septin-2 in promoting EOC tumorigenesis through these mechanisms.
PXD012766	31107207	Utilization of Galleria mellonella larvae to characterize the development of Staphylococcus aureus infection. 	Utilisation of Galleria mellonella larvae to characterise  development of Staphylococcus aureus infection	: Galleria, Immunity, Infection, Mini-model, Staphylococcus	Staphylococcus aureus is a human opportunistic pathogen that causes a wide range of superficial and systemic infections in susceptible patients. Here we describe how an inoculum of S. aureus activates the cellular and humoral response of Galleria mellonella larvae while growing and disseminating throughout the host, forming nodules and ultimately killing the host. An inoculum of S. aureus (2x10(6) larva(- 1) ) decreased larval viability at 24 (80+/-5.77 %), 48 (55.93+/-5.55 %) and 72 h (10.23+/-2.97 %) and was accompanied by significant proliferation and dissemination of S. aureus between 6 and 48 h and the formation of nodules in the host. The hemocyte (immune cell) densities increased between 4 and 24 h and hemocytes isolated from larvae after 24 h exposure to heat-killed S. aureus (2x10(6) larva(- 1) ) showed altered killing kinetics as compared to those from control larvae. Alterations in the humoral immune response of larvae 6 and 24 h post-infection were also determined by quantitative shotgun proteomics. The proteome of 6 h-infected larvae was enriched for antimicrobial proteins, proteins of the prophenoloxidase cascade and a range of peptidoglycan recognition proteins. By 24 h there was a significant increase in the abundance of a range of antimicrobial peptides with anti-staphylococcal activity and proteins associated with nodule formation. The results presented here indicate how S. aureus interacts with the larval immune response, induces the expression of a variety of immune-related peptides and also forms nodules which are a hallmark of soft tissue infections during human infection.
PXD010761	31108460	Ferroptosis is governed by differential regulation of transcription in liver cancer. 	Erastin and ferrostatin induced protein expression change in HepG2 cells	ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP), erastin, ferroptosis, liver cancer	Ferroptosis is an outcome of metabolic disorders and closely linked to liver cancer. However, the mechanism underlying the fine regulation of ferroptosis in liver cancer remains unclear. Here, we have identified two categories of genes: ferroptosis up-regulated factors (FUF) and ferroptosis down-regulated factors (FDF), which stimulate and suppress ferroptosis by affecting the synthesis of GSH. Furthermore, FUF are controlled by one transcription factor HIC1, while FDF controlled by another transcription factor HNF4A. Occurrence of ferroptosis might depend on the histone acetyltransferase KAT2B. Upon stimulation of ferroptosis, dissociation of KAT2B prevents HNF4A from binding to the FDF promoter. This effect happens prior to the recruitment of KAT2B to the FUF promoter, which facilitates HIC1 binding to transcribe FUF. Clinically, HIC1 and HNF4A conversely correlate with tumor stage in liver cancer. Patients with lower HIC1 and higher HNF4A exhibit poorer prognostic outcomes. Disrupting the balance between HIC1 and HNF4A might be helpful in treating liver cancer.
PXD013155	31109144	Proteomics Analysis of Urine to Examine Physical Effects of Warm Nano Mist Sauna Bathing. 	NGT6	sauna bathing	Conventional sauna bathing may have some health benefits as it facilitates relaxing, detoxing and promoting metabolism. However, conventional sauna bathing at a high temperature may be harmful for the body by increasing the risk of heart failure. The nano-mist sauna has been developed to provide nano-size water particles at a lower temperature. Hence, nano-mist sauna bathing is expected to be useful for health without the risks that arise at high temperatures. In this study, we performed a comprehensive proteomics analysis of urine samples obtained from healthy volunteers before and after they had taken a sauna bath with nano-mist (n = 10) or with conventional mist (n = 10) daily for two weeks (4 groups). The average numbers of urine proteins identified by liquid chromatography-linked mass chromatography in each group varied from 678 to 753. Interestingly, the protein number was increased after sauna bathing both with nano-mist or with conventional mist. Quantitative analysis indicated that considerable numbers of proteins were obviously up-regulated, with more than two-folds in urine samples after the nano-mist sauna bathing. The KEGG pathway analysis showed significant stimulation of the lysosome pathway (p = 5.89E-6) after the nano-mist bathing, which may indicate the nano-mist sauna bathing promotes metabolism related to the lysosome pathway more efficiently than conventional mist sauna bathing and may provide more health benefits.
PXD011783	31109997	Multipotent fetal-derived Cdx2 cells from placenta regenerate the heart. 	Multipotent fetal-derived Cdx2 cells from placenta regenerate the heart	Cdx2, Placenta, cardiac regeneration	The extremely limited regenerative potential of adult mammalian hearts has prompted the need for novel cell-based therapies that can restore contractile function in heart disease. We have previously shown the regenerative potential of mixed fetal cells that were naturally found migrating to the injured maternal heart. Exploiting this intrinsic mechanism led to the current hypothesis that Caudal-type homeobox-2 (Cdx2) cells in placenta may represent a novel cell type for cardiac regeneration. Using a lineage-tracing strategy, we specifically labeled fetal-derived Cdx2 cells with enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP). Cdx2-eGFP cells from end-gestation placenta were assayed for cardiac differentiation in vitro and in vivo using a mouse model of myocardial infarction. We observed that these cells differentiated into spontaneously beating cardiomyocytes (CMs) and vascular cells in vitro, indicating multipotentiality. When administered via tail vein to infarcted wild-type male mice, they selectively and robustly homed to the heart and differentiated to CMs and blood vessels, resulting in significant improvement in contractility as noted by MRI. Proteomics and immune transcriptomics studies of Cdx2-eGFP cells compared with embryonic stem (ES) cells reveal that they appear to retain "stem"-related functions of ES cells but exhibit unique signatures supporting roles in homing and survival, with an ability to evade immune surveillance, which is critical for cell-based therapy. Cdx2-eGFP cells may potentially represent a therapeutic advance in allogeneic cell therapy for cardiac repair.
PXD007891	31110078	Sum of peak intensities outperforms peak area integration in iTRAQ protein expression measurement by LC-MS/MS using a TripleTOF 5600+ platform. 	iTRAQ LLC-PK1 CnI	Calcineurin Inhibitors, LLC PK-1, iTRAQ	In the field of quantitative proteomics, the Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation (iTRAQ) technology has demonstrated efficacy for proteome monitoring despite its lack of a consensus for data handling. In the present study, after peptide and protein identification, we compared the widespread quantitation method based on the calculation of MS/MS reporter ion peaks areas ratios (ProteinPilot) to the alternative method based on the calculation of ratios of the sum of peak intensities (jTRAQx [Quant]) and we processed output data with the in-house Customizable iTRAQ Ratios Calculator (CiR-C) algorithm. Quantitation based on peak area ratios displayed no significant linear correlation with Western blot quantitation. In contrast, quantitation based on the sum of peak intensities displayed a significant linear association with Western blot quantitation (non-zero slope; Pearson correlation coefficient test, r = 0.296, P=0.010**) with an average bias of 0.087 +/- 0.500 and 95% Limits of Agreement from -0.893 to 1.068. We proposed the Mascot-jTRAQx-CiR-C strategy as a simple yet powerful data processing adjunct to the iTRAQ technology.
PXD012799	31110358	An extensively glycosylated archaeal pilus survives extreme conditions. 	An Archaeal Pilus Survives the Most Extreme Conditions Through Extensive Glycosylation	Cryo-EM, LC-MS, Pili, glycosylation	Pili on the surface of Sulfolobus islandicus are used for many functions, and serve as receptors for certain archaeal viruses. The cells grow optimally at pH 3 and ~80 degreesC, exposing these extracellular appendages to a very harsh environment. The pili, when removed from cells, resist digestion by trypsin or pepsin, and survive boiling in sodium dodecyl sulfate or 5 M guanidine hydrochloride. We used electron cryo-microscopy to determine the structure of these filaments at 4.1 Aa resolution. An atomic model was built by combining the electron density map with bioinformatics without previous knowledge of the pilin sequence-an approach that should prove useful for assemblies where all of the components are not known. The atomic structure of the pilus was unusual, with almost one-third of the residues being either threonine or serine, and with many hydrophobic surface residues. While the map showed extra density consistent with glycosylation for only three residues, mass measurements suggested extensive glycosylation. We propose that this extensive glycosylation renders these filaments soluble and provides the remarkable structural stability. We also show that the overall fold of the archaeal pilin is remarkably similar to that of archaeal flagellin, establishing common evolutionary origins.
PXD011868	31110498	Proteomic and Metabolomic Profiling of Deinococcus radiodurans Recovering After Exposure to Simulated Low Earth Orbit Vacuum Conditions. 	Deinococcus radiodurans recovery after vacuum exposure	Deinococcus radiodurans, recovery, vacuum exposure	The polyextremophile, gram-positive bacterium Deinococcus radiodurans can withstand harsh conditions of real and simulated outer space environment, e.g., UV and ionizing radiation. A long-term space exposure of D. radiodurans has been performed in Low Earth Orbit (LEO) in frames of the Tanpopo orbital mission aiming to investigate the possibility of interplanetary life transfer. Space vacuum (10 (-) (4)-10 (-) (7) Pa) is a harmful factor, which induces dehydration and affects microbial integrity, severely damaging cellular components: lipids, carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic acids. However, the molecular strategies by which microorganisms protect their integrity on molecular and cellular levels against vacuum damage are not yet understood. In a simulation experiment, we exposed dried D. radiodurans cells to vacuum (10 (-) (4)-10 (-) (7) Pa), which resembles vacuum pressure present outside the International Space Station in LEO. After 90 days of high vacuum exposure, survival of D. radiodurans cells was 2.5-fold lower compared to control cells. To trigger molecular repair mechanisms, vacuum exposed cells of D. radiodurans were recovered in complex medium for 3 and 6 h. The combined approach of analyzing primary metabolites and proteins revealed important molecular activities during early recovery after vacuum exposure. In total, 1939 proteins covering 63% of D. radiodurans annotated protein sequences were detected. Proteases, tRNA ligases, reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging proteins, nucleic acid repair proteins, TCA cycle proteins, and S-layer proteins are highly abundant after vacuum exposure. The overall abundance of amino acids and TCA cycle intermediates is reduced during the recovery phase of D. radiodurans as they are needed as carbon source. Furthermore, vacuum exposure induces an upregulation of Type III histidine kinases, which trigger the expression of S-layer related proteins. Along with the highly abundant transcriptional regulator of FNR/CRP family, specific histidine kinases might be involved in the regulation of vacuum stress response. After repair processes are finished, D. radiodurans switches off the connected repair machinery and focuses on proliferation. Combined comparative analysis of alterations in the proteome and metabolome helps to identify molecular key players in the stress response of D. radiodurans, thus elucidating the mechanisms behind its extraordinary regenerative abilities and enabling this microorganism to withstand vacuum stress.
PXD012989	31111417	Electron Transfer/Higher Energy Collisional Dissociation of Doubly Charged Peptide Ions: Identification of Labile Protein Phosphorylations. 	Electron Transfer/ Higher Energy Collisional Dissociation of Doubly Charged Peptide Ions: Identification of Labile Protein Phosphorylations	EThcD, labile phosphorylations	In recent years, labile phosphorylation sites on arginine, histidine, cysteine, and lysine as well as pyrophosphorylation of serine and threonine have gained more attention in phosphoproteomic studies. However, the analysis of these delicate posttranslational modifications via tandem mass spectrometry remains a challenge. Common fragmentation techniques such as collision-induced dissociation (CID) and higher energy collisional dissociation (HCD) are limited due to extensive phosphate-related neutral loss. Electron transfer dissociation (ETD) has shown to preserve labile modifications, but is restricted to higher charge states, missing the most prevalent doubly charged peptides. Here, we report the ability of electron transfer/higher energy collisional dissociation (EThcD) to fragment doubly charged phosphorylated peptides without losing the labile modifications. Using synthetic peptides that contain phosphorylated arginine, histidine, cysteine, and lysine as well as pyrophosphorylated serine residues, we evaluated the optimal fragmentation conditions, demonstrating that EThcD is the method of choice for unambiguous assignment of tryptic, labile phosphorylated peptides. Graphical Abstract.
PXD012292	31113491	Arabidopsis S2Lb links AtCOMPASS-like and SDG2 activity in H3K4me3 independently from histone H2B monoubiquitination. 	SDG2 and S2Lb affinity purification and mass spectrometry	AP-MS, chromatin, histone methyltransferase	BACKGROUND: The functional determinants of H3K4me3, their potential dependency on histone H2B monoubiquitination, and their contribution to defining transcriptional regimes are poorly defined in plant systems. Unlike in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, where a single SET1 protein catalyzes H3K4me3 as part of COMPlex of proteins ASsociated with Set1 (COMPASS), in Arabidopsis thaliana, this activity involves multiple histone methyltransferases. Among these, the plant-specific SET DOMAIN GROUP 2 (SDG2) has a prominent role. RESULTS: We report that SDG2 co-regulates hundreds of genes with SWD2-like b (S2Lb), a plant ortholog of the Swd2 axillary subunit of yeast COMPASS. We show that S2Lb co-purifies with the AtCOMPASS core subunit WDR5, and both S2Lb and SDG2 directly influence H3K4me3 enrichment over highly transcribed genes. S2Lb knockout triggers pleiotropic developmental phenotypes at the vegetative and reproductive stages, including reduced fertility and seed dormancy. However, s2lb seedlings display little transcriptomic defects as compared to the large repertoire of genes targeted by S2Lb, SDG2, or H3K4me3, suggesting that H3K4me3 enrichment is important for optimal gene induction during cellular transitions rather than for determining on/off transcriptional status. Moreover, unlike in budding yeast, most of the S2Lb and H3K4me3 genomic distribution does not rely on a trans-histone crosstalk with histone H2B monoubiquitination. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, this study unveils that the evolutionarily conserved COMPASS-like complex has been co-opted by the plant-specific SDG2 histone methyltransferase and mediates H3K4me3 deposition through an H2B monoubiquitination-independent pathway in Arabidopsis.
PXD011483	31113833	HSP101 Interacts with the Proteasome and Promotes the Clearance of Ubiquitylated Protein Aggregates. 	Protein disaggregation by HSP101	insoluble proteins	Stressful environments often lead to protein unfolding and the formation of cytotoxic aggregates that can compromise cell survival. The molecular chaperone heat shock protein (HSP) 101 is a protein disaggregase that co-operates with the small HSP (sHSP) and HSP70 chaperones to facilitate removal of such aggregates and is essential for surviving severe heat stress. To better define how HSP101 protects plants, we investigated the localization and targets of this chaperone in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). By following HSP101 tagged with GFP, we discovered that its intracellular distribution is highly dynamic and includes a robust, reversible sequestration into cytoplasmic foci that vary in number and size among cell types and are potentially enriched in aggregated proteins. Affinity isolation of HSP101 recovered multiple proteasome subunits, suggesting a functional interaction. Consistent with this, the GFP-tagged 26S proteasome regulatory particle non-ATPase (RPN) 1a transiently colocalized with HSP101 in cytoplasmic foci during recovery. In addition, analysis of aggregated (insoluble) proteins showed they are extensively ubiquitylated during heat stress, especially in plants deficient in HSP101 or class I sHSPs, implying that protein disaggregation is important for optimal proteasomal degradation. Many potential HSP101 clients, identified by mass spectrometry of insoluble proteins, overlapped with known stress granule constituents and sHSP-interacting proteins, confirming a role for HSP101 in stress granule function. Connections between HSP101, stress granules, proteasomes, and ubiquitylation imply that dynamic coordination between protein disaggregation and proteolysis is required to survive proteotoxic stress caused by protein aggregation at high temperatures.
PXD012335	31113901	The Synthetic Phenotype of DeltabamB DeltabamE Double Mutants Results from a Lethal Jamming of the Bam Complex by the Lipoprotein RcsF. 	The synthetic phenotype of bamBbamE double mutants results from a lethal jamming of the Bam complex by the lipoprotein RcsF	BAM, bacteria, outer membrane	The selective permeability of the Gram-negative outer membrane (OM) is maintained by integral beta-barrel outer membrane proteins (OMPs). The heteropentomeric beta-barrel assembly machine (Bam) folds and inserts OMPs into the OM. Coordination of the essential proteins BamA and BamD is critical for OMP assembly and therefore the viability of the cell. The role of the nonessential lipoproteins BamBCE has yet to be characterized; however, genetic evidence suggests that they have nonoverlapping roles in OMP assembly. In this work, we quantify changes of the proteome in the conditional lethal DeltabamB DeltabamE double mutant. We show that cells lacking BamB and BamE have a global OMP defect that is a result of a lethal obstruction of an assembly-competent Bam complex by the lipoprotein RcsF. RcsF is a stress-sensing lipoprotein that is threaded through the lumen of abundant beta-barrel OMPs by the Bam complex to expose the amino terminus on the cell surface. We demonstrate that simply removing this lipoprotein corrects the severe OMP assembly defect of the double mutant nearly as efficiently as a previously isolated suppressor mutation in bamA We propose that BamB and BamE play crucial, nonoverlapping roles to coordinate the activities of BamA and BamD during OMP biogenesis.IMPORTANCE Protein assembly into lipid bilayers is an essential process that ensures the viability of diverse organisms. In Gram-negative bacteria, the heteropentomeric beta-barrel assembly machine (Bam) folds and inserts proteins into the outer membrane. Due to its essentiality, outer membrane protein (OMP) assembly by the Bam complex is an attractive target for antibiotic development. Here, we show that the conditional lethal phenotype of a mutant lacking two of the three nonessential lipoproteins, BamB and BamE, is caused by lethal jamming of the stripped-down Bam complex by a normally surface-exposed lipoprotein, RcsF. The heterotrimeric Bam complex (BamA, BamD, BamC) is nearly as efficient as the wild-type complex in OMP assembly if RcsF is removed. Our study highlights the importance of BamB and BamE in regulating the interaction between BamA and BamD and expands our understanding of the role of the Bam complex in outer membrane biogenesis.
PXD013381	31113953	ZFYVE21 is a complement-induced Rab5 effector that activates non-canonical NF-kappaB via phosphoinosotide remodeling of endosomes. 	HUVEC endosome LCMS	Rab5 mac	Complement promotes vascular inflammation in transplant organ rejection and connective tissue diseases. Here we identify ZFYVE21 as a complement-induced Rab5 effector that induces non-canonical NF-kappaB in endothelial cells (EC). In response to membrane attack complexes (MAC), ZFYVE21 is post-translationally stabilized on MAC+Rab5+ endosomes in a Rab5- and PI(3)P-dependent manner. ZFYVE21 promotes SMURF2-mediated polyubiquitinylation and proteasome-dependent degradation of endosome-associated PTEN to induce vesicular enrichment of PI(3,4,5)P3 and sequential recruitment of activated Akt and NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK). Pharmacologic alteration of cellular phosphoinositide content with miltefosine reduces ZFYVE21 induction, EC activation, and allograft vasculopathy in a humanized mouse model. ZFYVE21 induction distinctly occurs in response to MAC and is detected in human renal and synovial tissues. Our data identifies ZFYVE21 as a Rab5 effector, defines a Rab5-ZFYVE21-SMURF2-pAkt axis by which it mediates EC activation, and demonstrates a role for this pathway in complement-mediated conditions.
PXD013101	31113955	Ubiquitylome study identifies increased histone 2A ubiquitylation as an evolutionarily conserved aging biomarker. 	drosophila proteome	Drosophila, long-lived proteome, ubiquitylome	The long-lived proteome constitutes a pool of exceptionally stable proteins with limited turnover. Previous studies on ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation primarily focused on relatively short-lived proteins; how ubiquitylation modifies the long-lived proteome and its regulatory effect on adult lifespan is unclear. Here we profile the age-dependent dynamics of long-lived proteomes in Drosophila by mass spectrometry using stable isotope switching coupled with antibody-enriched ubiquitylome analysis. Our data describe landscapes of long-lived proteins in somatic and reproductive tissues of Drosophila during adult lifespan, and reveal a preferential ubiquitylation of older long-lived proteins. We identify an age-modulated increase of ubiquitylation on long-lived histone 2A protein in Drosophila, which is evolutionarily conserved in mouse, monkey, and human. A reduction of ubiquitylated histone 2A in mutant flies is associated with longevity and healthy lifespan. Together, our data reveal an evolutionarily conserved biomarker of aging that links epigenetic modulation of the long-lived histone protein to lifespan.
PXD010982	31113963	Hair Proteome Variation at Different Body Locations on Genetically Variant Peptide Detection for Protein-Based Human Identification. 	Hair Proteome Variation at Different Body Locations on GVP Detection for Protein-Based Human Identification	Forensics, Human Hair, Protein-Based Human Identification	Human hair contains minimal intact nuclear DNA for human identification in forensic and archaeological applications. In contrast, proteins offer a pathway to exploit hair evidence for human identification owing to their persistence, abundance, and derivation from DNA. Individualizing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are often conserved as single amino acid polymorphisms in genetically variant peptides (GVPs). Detection of GVP markers in the hair proteome via high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry permits inference of SNPs with known statistical probabilities. To adopt this approach for forensic investigations, hair proteomic variation and its effects on GVP identification must first be characterized. This research aimed to assess variation in single-inch head, arm, and pubic hair, and discover body location-invariant GVP markers to distinguish individuals. Comparison of protein profiles revealed greater body location-specific variation in keratin-associated proteins and intracellular proteins, allowing body location differentiation. However, robust GVP markers derive primarily from keratins that do not exhibit body location-specific differential expression, supporting GVP identification independence from hair proteomic variation at the various body locations. Further, pairwise comparisons of GVP profiles with 8 SNPs demonstrated greatest interindividual variation and high intraindividual consistency, enabling similar differentiative potential of individuals using single hairs irrespective of body location origin.
PXD013124	31114592	Proteases Underground: Analysis of the Maize Root Apoplast Identifies Organ Specific Papain-Like Cysteine Protease Activity. 	Identification of root specific papain-like cysteine proteases in mays	activity-based protein profiling, mays root apoplast, papain-like cysteine proteases	Plant proteases are key regulators of plant cell processes such as seed development, immune responses, senescence and programmed cell death (PCD). Apoplastic papain-like cysteine proteases (PL) are hubs in plant-microbe interactions and play an important role during abiotic stresses. The apoplast is a crucial interface for the interaction between plant and microbes. So far, apoplastic maize PL and their function have been mostly described for aerial parts. In this study, we focused on apoplastic PLCPs in the roots of maize plants. We have analyzed the phylogeny of maize PLCPs and investigated their protein abundance after salicylic acid (SA) treatment. Using activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) we have identified a novel root-specific PLCP belonging to the RD21-like subfamily, as well as three SA activated PLCPs. The root specific PLCP CP1C shares sequence and structural similarities to known CP1-like proteases. Biochemical analysis of recombinant CP1C revealed different substrate specificities and inhibitor affinities compared to the related proteases. This study characterized a root-specific PLCP and identifies differences between the SA-dependent activation of PLCPs in roots and leaves.
PXD011472	31116903	Label-free cervicovaginal fluid proteome profiling reflects the cervix neoplastic transformation. 	Comparative analysis of CVF proteome composition during neoplastic transformation of cervix among females of reproductive age	CVF, HPV, cervical cancer	Cervicovaginal fluid (CVF) is a valuable source of clinical information about the female reproductive tract in both nonpregnant and pregnant women. The aim of this study is to specify the CVF proteome at different stages of cervix neoplastic transformation by label-free quantitation approach based on liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method. The proteome composition of CVF from 40 women of reproductive age with human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated cervix neoplastic transformation (low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion [LSIL], high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion [HSIL], and CANCER) was investigated. Hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis (PCA) of the proteomic data obtained by a label-free quantitation approach show the distribution of the sample set between four major clusters (no intraepithelial lesion or malignancy [NILM], LSIL, HSIL and CANCER) depending on the form of cervical lesion. Multisample ANOVA with subsequent Welch's t test resulted in 117 that changed significantly across the four clinical stages, including 27 proteins significantly changed in cervical cancer. Some of them were indicated as promising biomarkers previously (ACTN4, VTN, ANXA1, CAP1, ANXA2, and MUC5B). CVF proteomic data from the discovery stage were analyzed by the partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) method to build a statistical model, allowing to differentiate severe dysplasia (HSIL and CANCER) from the mild/normal stage (NILM and LSIL), and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) area under the curve (AUC) were obtained on an independent set of 33 samples. The sensitivity of the model was 77%, and the specificity was 94%; AUC was equal to 0.87. CVF proteome proved to be reflect the stage of cervical epithelium neoplastic process.
PXD012424	31117584	GPSeeker Enables Quantitative Structural N-Glycoproteomics for Site- and Structure-Specific Characterization of Differentially Expressed N-Glycosylation in Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	differentially expressed N-glycopeptides in HepG2 related to LO2 cell line	HCC, Human liver, N-glycopeptides, Q Excactive	N-Glycosylation, being one of the most common and complex protein post-translational modifications (PTMs), is known to have microheterogeneity with the presence of different N-glycan structures at a single specific glycosite. These different structures may have exactly the same monosaccharide composition but totally different differential expressions and pathological relevance. Mass spectrometry-based N-glycoproteomics has so far been successful in large-scale characterization of these N-glycans at the composition level, and structure-level identification and quantitation is urgently needed. Here we report our development of the intact N-glycopeptide search engine GPSeeker and the GPSeeker-centered quantitative structural N-glycoproteomics pipeline. In benchmark characterization of differentially expressed N-glycosylation in hepatocellular carcinoma HepG2 cells relative to LO2 cells, 5 405 and 1 081 intact N-glycopeptides with putative linkage structures were identified and quantified with isotopic dimethyl labeling and 2D liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Among the 5 405 IDs, 837 were identified with no less than one structure diagnostic fragment ion for the N-glycan moieties. Besides double isomers of sialic acid linkages and fucose sequences, quadruple isomers from combination of two linages and two sequences were chromatographically separated and confidently identified; microheterogeneity with different differentially expressions were observed on 183 out of the 231 quantified N-glycosites. This GPSeeker-centered quantitative structural N-glycoproteomics pipeline can be widely applied to precise qualitative and quantitative characterization of N-glycosylation with physiological and pathological relevance.
PXD013242	31117637	SILAC Quantitative Proteomics and Biochemical Analyses Reveal a Novel Molecular Mechanism by Which ADAM12S Promotes the Proliferation, Migration, and Invasion of Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells through Upregulating Hexokinase 1. 	Profiling of ADAM12S regulated proteins in H1688 cells	ADAM12S, H1688, OrbiTrap Elite, SILAC quantification	Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) accounts for ~14% of total lung cancer, which is the worldwide leading cause of morbidity and mortality in cancer. Although SCLC can be treated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy, its 5 year survival rate is still below 7%. Therefore, it is essential to discover new molecules and elucidate the underlying mechanisms modulating the tumorigenesis and metastasis of SCLC for the unmet medical needs. The secreted form of A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase 12 (ADAM12S) is highly expressed in SCLC and promotes the proliferation, migration, and invasion of SCLC cells. However, the underlying molecular mechanism is still elusive. Using stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative proteomics, we identify 82 ADAM12S-regulated proteins in an SCLC cell line. Our proteomics and biochemical analyses discover that ADAM12S overexpression elevates while ADAM12 knockdown reduces the rate-limiting enzyme hexokinase 1 (HK1) in glycolysis. Through bioinformatics analyses, genetic manipulation, and in vitro assays, we further reveal that ADAM12S promotes the proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion of SCLC cells through upregulating HK1. This work links ADAM12S to glucose metabolic pathways in its attribution to the tumorigenesis and metastasis of SCLC cells and might provide valuable information for the exploration of therapeutic intervention for SCLC.
PXD011384	31118239	The stoichiometry of the outer kinetochore is modulated by microtubule-proximal regulatory factors. 	The stoichiometry of the outer kinetochore responds to microtubule-proximal regulation	MudPIT, anaphase, kinetochore	The kinetochore is a large molecular machine that attaches chromosomes to microtubules and facilitates chromosome segregation. The kinetochore includes submodules that associate with the centromeric DNA and submodules that attach to microtubules. Additional copies of several submodules of the kinetochore are added during anaphase, including the microtubule binding module Ndc80. While the factors governing plasticity are not known, they could include regulation based on microtubule-kinetochore interactions. We report that Fin1 localizes to the microtubule-proximal edge of the kinetochore cluster during anaphase based on single-particle averaging of super-resolution images. Fin1 is required for the assembly of normal levels of Dam1 and Ndc80 submodules. Levels of Ndc80 further depend on the Dam1 microtubule binding complex. Our results suggest the stoichiometry of outer kinetochore submodules is strongly influenced by factors at the kinetochore-microtubule interface such as Fin1 and Dam1, and phosphorylation by cyclin-dependent kinase. Outer kinetochore stoichiometry is remarkably plastic and responsive to microtubule-proximal regulation.
PXD012645	31119868	In-Depth Proteomic Analysis of Human Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid toward the Biomarker Discovery for Lung Cancers. 	BALF proteomics -  In-depth proteomic analysis of human bronchoalveolar lavage fluid towards the biomarker discovery for lung cancers	BALF, depletion, lung cancer	PURPOSE: Lung cancer is among the most common cancers. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) can be easily obtained from patients with lung cancers. The aim is to develop a novel proteomic method of the molecule-based sensitive detection of biomarkers from BALF. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: BALF samples are collected from segmental bronchus of 14 patients with lung cancers from Kyung Hee University Hospital. First, BALF proteome is depleted using a depletion column, and then peptides are prepared from the enriched low abundant proteins and fractionated by high pH reverse phase liquid chromatography prior to LC-MS/MS. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012645. RESULTS: A novel method is developed for in-depth proteomic analysis of BALF by combining antibody-based depletion of high abundant proteins from BALF with high pH peptide fractionation. Peptides are analyzed on a high resolution Orbitrap Fusion mass spectrometer. MaxQuant search result in the identification of 4615 protein groups mapped to 4534 genes. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: It is found that the method outperformed conventional BALF proteomic methods and it is believed that this method will facilitate the biomarker research for lung cancer. In addition, it is shown that BALF will be a great source of biomarkers of lung diseases.
PXD009082	31119940	Exoproteome Heterogeneity among Closely Related Staphylococcus aureus t437 Isolates and Possible Implications for Virulence. 	Exoproteomes of S. aureus spa type t437 isolates	Staphylococcus aureus	Staphylococcus aureus with spa-type t437 has been identified as a predominant community-associated methicillin-resistant S. aureus clone from Asia, which is also encountered in Europe. Molecular typing has previously shown that t437 isolates are highly similar regardless of geographical regions or host environments. The present study was aimed at assessing to what extent this high similarity is actually reflected in the production of secreted virulence factors. We therefore profiled the extracellular proteome, representing the main reservoir of virulence factors, of 20 representative clinical isolates by mass spectrometry. The results show that these isolates can be divided into three groups and nine subgroups based on exoproteome abundance signatures. This implies that S. aureus t437 isolates show substantial exoproteome heterogeneity. Nonetheless, 30 highly conserved extracellular proteins, of which about 50% have a predicted role in pathogenesis, were dominantly identified. To approximate the virulence of the 20 investigated isolates, we employed infection models based on Galleria mellonella and HeLa cells. The results show that the grouping of clinical isolates based on their exoproteome profile can be related to virulence. We consider this outcome important as our approach provides a tool to pinpoint differences in virulence among seemingly highly similar clinical isolates of S. aureus.
PXD007661	31120389	Global Proteome Profiling Reveals Drug-Resistant Traits in Elizabethkingia meningoseptica: An Opportunistic Nosocomial Pathogen. 	Global proteome profile of Elizabethkingia meningoseptica: an opportunistic nosocomial pathogen	Elizabethkingia meningoseptica, Nosocomial pathogen, Proteogenomics, Virulence	Elizabethkingia meningoseptica is Gram-negative, rod-shaped opportunistic bacterial pathogen increasingly reported in hospital-acquired outbreaks. This bacterium is well known to thrive in the hospital environment. One of the leading causes of meningitis in pediatric and immune-compromised patients, E. meningoseptica has been noted as a "pathogen of interest" in the context of nosocomial diseases associated with device-related infections in particular. This pathogen's multidrug-resistant phenotype and attendant lack of adequate molecular mechanistic data limit the current approaches for its effective management in hospitals and public health settings. This study provides the global proteome of E. meningoseptica. The reference strain E. meningoseptica ATCC 13253 was used for proteomic analysis using high-resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry. The study provided translational evidence for 2506 proteins of E. meningoseptica. We identified multiple metallo-beta-lactamases, transcriptional regulators, and efflux transporter proteins associated with multidrug resistance. A protein Car D, which is an enzyme of the carbapenem synthesis pathway, was also discovered in E. meningoseptica. Further, the proteomics data were harnessed for refining the genome annotation. We discovered 39 novel protein-coding genes and corrected four existing translations using proteogenomic workflow. Novel translations reported in this study enhance the molecular data on this organism, thus improving current databases. We believe that the in-depth proteomic data presented in this study offer a platform for accelerated research on this pathogen. The identification of multiple proteins, particularly those involved in drug resistance, offers new future opportunities to design novel and specific antibiotics against infections caused by E. meningoseptica.
PXD013403	31123065	Daedalus and Gasz recruit Armitage to mitochondria, bringing piRNA precursors to the biogenesis machinery. 	Daedalus and Gasz recruit Armitage to mitochondria, bringing piRNA precursors to the biogenesis machinery	pirna piwi drosophila	The Piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway is a small RNA-based immune system that silences mobile genetic elements in animal germlines. piRNA biogenesis requires a specialized machinery that converts long single-stranded precursors into small RNAs of ~25-nucleotides in length. This process involves factors that operate in two different subcellular compartments: the nuage/Yb body and mitochondria. How these two sites communicate to achieve accurate substrate selection and efficient processing remains unclear. Here, we investigate a previously uncharacterized piRNA biogenesis factor, Daedalus (Daed), that is located on the outer mitochondrial membrane. Daed is essential for Zucchini-mediated piRNA production and the correct localization of the indispensable piRNA biogenesis factor Armitage (Armi). We found that Gasz and Daed interact with each other and likely provide a mitochondrial "anchoring platform" to ensure that Armi is held in place, proximal to Zucchini, during piRNA processing. Our data suggest that Armi initially identifies piRNA precursors in nuage/Yb bodies in a manner that depends on Piwi and then moves to mitochondria to present precursors to the mitochondrial biogenesis machinery. These results represent a significant step in understanding a critical aspect of transposon silencing; namely, how RNAs are chosen to instruct the piRNA machinery in the nature of its silencing targets.
PXD010640	31123107	Proteomic Analysis of Vocal Fold Fibroblasts Exposed to Cigarette Smoke Extract: Exploring the Pathophysiology of Reinke's Edema. 	Proteomic analysis of vocal fold fibroblasts exposed to cigarette smoke extract	cigarette smoke extract, fibroblasts	Reinke's edema is a smoking-associated, benign, mostly bilateral lesion of the vocal folds leading to difficulties in breathing and voice problems. Pronounced histological changes such as damaged microvessels or immune cell infiltration have been described in the vocal fold connective tissue, the lamina propria Thus, vocal fold fibroblasts, the main cell type of the lamina propria, have been postulated to play a critical role in disease mediation. Yet information about the pathophysiology is still scarce and treatment is only surgical, i.e. symptomatic. To explore the pathophysiology of Reinke's edema, we exposed near-primary human vocal fold fibroblasts to medium conditioned with cigarette smoke extract for 24 h as well as 4 days followed by quantitative mass spectrometry.Proteomic analyses after 24 h revealed that cigarette smoke increased proteins previously described to be involved in oxidative stress responses in other contexts. Correspondingly, gene sets linked to metabolism of xenobiotics and reactive oxygen species were significantly enriched among cigarette smoke-induced proteins. Among the proteins most downregulated by cigarette smoke, we identified fibrillar collagens COL1A1 and COL1A2; this reduction was validated by complementary methods. Further, we found a significant increase of UDP-glucose 6-dehydrogenase, generating a building block for biosynthesis of hyaluronan, another crucial component of the vocal fold lamina propria In line with this result, hyaluronan levels were significantly increased because of cigarette smoke exposure. Long term treatment of 4 days did not lead to significant changes.The current findings corroborate previous studies but also reveal new insights in possible disease mechanisms of Reinke's edema. We postulate that changes in the composition of the vocal folds' extracellular matrix -reduction of collagen fibrils, increase of hyaluronan- may lead to the clinical findings. This might ease the identification of better, disease-specific treatment options.
PXD010519	31123605	Plant-derived virus-like particle vaccines drive cross-presentation of influenza A hemagglutinin peptides by human monocyte-derived macrophages. 	Plant-derived virus-like particle vaccines drive cross-presentation of influenza A hemagglutinin peptides by human monocyte-derived macrophages	cell-mediated immunity, cross-presentation, high-resolution mass spectrometry, human monocyte-derived macrophage, influenza, major histocompatibility complex class I, plant-derived vaccine, virus	A growing body of evidence supports the importance of T cell responses to protect against severe influenza, promote viral clearance, and ensure long-term immunity. Plant-derived virus-like particle (VLP) vaccines bearing influenza hemagglutinin (HA) have been shown to elicit strong humoral and CD4(+) T cell responses in both pre-clinical and clinical studies. To better understand the immunogenicity of these vaccines, we tracked the intracellular fate of a model HA (A/California/07/2009 H1N1) in human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) following delivery either as VLPs (H1-VLP) or in soluble form. Compared to exposure to soluble HA, pulsing with VLPs resulted in ~3-fold greater intracellular accumulation of HA at 15 min that was driven by clathrin-mediated and clathrin-independent endocytosis as well as macropinocytosis/phagocytosis. At 45 min, soluble HA had largely disappeared suggesting its handling primarily by high-degradative endosomal pathways. Although the overall fluorescence intensity/cell had declined 25% at 45 min after H1-VLP exposure, the endosomal distribution pattern and degree of aggregation suggested that HA delivered by VLP had entered both high-degradative late and low-degradative static early and/or recycling endosomal pathways. At 45 min in the cells pulsed with VLPs, HA was strongly co-localized with Rab5, Rab7, Rab11, MHC II, and MHC I. High-resolution tandem mass spectrometry identified 115 HA-derived peptides associated with MHC I in the H1-VLP-treated MDMs. These data suggest that HA delivery to antigen-presenting cells on plant-derived VLPs facilitates antigen uptake, endosomal processing, and cross-presentation. These observations may help to explain the broad and cross-reactive immune responses generated by these vaccines.
PXD011154	31125353	Salmonella Typhi, Paratyphi A, Enteritidis and Typhimurium core proteomes reveal differentially expressed proteins linked to the cell surface and pathogenicity. 	Comparative analysis of Salmonella Typhi, Paratyphi A, Enteritidis and Typhimurium core proteomes	Typhoidal Salmonella, comparative analysis, core proteome, non-typhoidal Salmonella	BACKGROUND: Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica contains more than 2,600 serovars of which four are of major medical relevance for humans. While the typhoidal serovars (Typhi and Paratyphi A) are human-restricted and cause enteric fever, non-typhoidal Salmonella serovars (Typhimurium and Enteritidis) have a broad host range and predominantly cause gastroenteritis. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPLE FINDINGS: We compared the core proteomes of Salmonella Typhi, Paratyphi A, Typhimurium and Enteritidis using contemporary proteomics. For each serovar, five clinical isolates (covering different geographical origins) and one reference strain were grown in vitro to the exponential phase. Levels of orthologous proteins quantified in all four serovars and within the typhoidal and non-typhoidal groups were compared and subjected to gene ontology term enrichment and inferred regulatory interactions. Differential expression of the core proteomes of the typhoidal serovars appears mainly related to cell surface components and, for the non-typhoidal serovars, to pathogenicity. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our comparative proteome analysis indicated differences in the expression of surface proteins between Salmonella Typhi and Paratyphi A, and in pathogenesis-related proteins between Salmonella Typhimurium and Enteritidis. Our findings may guide future development of novel diagnostics and vaccines, as well as understanding of disease progression.
PXD012693	31127120	Pax3 cooperates with Ldb1 to direct local chromosome architecture during myogenic lineage specification. 	Pax3 interactome in mouse ES cell-derived mesodermal precursors	Pax3, affinity purification, embryoid bodies, mesoderm, myogenesis, nuclear extract	Chromatin looping allows enhancer-bound regulatory factors to influence transcription. Large domains, referred to as topologically associated domains, participate in genome organization. However, the mechanisms underlining interactions within these domains, which control gene expression, are not fully understood. Here we report that activation of embryonic myogenesis is associated with establishment of long-range chromatin interactions centered on Pax3-bound loci. Using mass spectrometry and genomic studies, we identify the ubiquitously expressed LIM-domain binding protein 1 (Ldb1) as the mediator of looping interactions at a subset of Pax3 binding sites. Ldb1 is recruited to Pax3-bound elements independently of CTCF-Cohesin, and is necessary for efficient deposition of H3K4me1 at these sites and chromatin looping. When Ldb1 is deleted in Pax3-expressing cells in vivo, specification of migratory myogenic progenitors is severely impaired. These results highlight Ldb1 requirement for Pax3 myogenic activity and demonstrate how transcription factors can promote formation of sub-topologically associated domain interactions involved in lineage specification.
PXD013068	31129269	Proteomics of exhaled breath condensate in stable COPD and non-COPD controls using tandem mass tags (TMTs) quantitative mass spectrometry: A pilot study. 	Proteomics of Exhaled Breath Condensate in COPD patients	COPD, EBC	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a type of obstructive lung disease characterized by long-term breathing problems and poor airflow. Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) is now a safe and clinically significant measurement which has a huge potential to measure biomarkers in COPD. Previous studies profiled the pooled EBC samples from COPD or control participants due to technological limitations. In our study, 32 COPD patients and 28 control individuals were enrolled, and their EBC were collected. After matching with sex, age and smoking history, EBC samples of 19 COPD patients and 19 control individuals were analyzed using tandem mass tags (TMTs) quantitative mass spectrometry individually. A total of 257 proteins were identified. Compared with control group, 24 proteins (15 upregulated and 9 downregulated) were differentially expressed in COPD patients. The GO analysis of these differential proteins expressed mostly in the cytoplasm, and the KEGG analysis showed they had a predominant role in inflammatory response. And ACTB, UBC, TUBB and CCT2 involving in cell motility and cytoskeleton played important role in the interaction-net of these proteins. To sum up, we found some proteins might be novel biomarkers of EBC in COPD and TMTs was available to analyze proteomics in individual EBC samples. SIGNIFICANCE: It is still difficult to understand the mechanism of airway inflammation in COPD. Exhaled breath condensate(EBC) might be a great study object, but due to technological limitations, researchers preferred to use pooled EBC samples. This study analyzed individual EBC samples, which would deepen our understanding of the pathogenesis of COPD. And this method can be applied to individual EBC samples for further airway investigations of different purpose and different complexity.
PXD009845	31130358	MiR-135a-5p Is Critical for Exercise-Induced Adult Neurogenesis. 	MiR-135a-5p is critical for exercise-induced proliferation of adult neurogenesis	Adult Neurogenesis, SWATH, miRNA	Physical exercise stimulates adult hippocampal neurogenesis and is considered a relevant strategy for preventing age-related cognitive decline in humans. The underlying mechanisms remains controversial. Here, we show that exercise increases proliferation of neural precursor cells (NPCs) of the mouse dentate gyrus (DG) via downregulation of microRNA 135a-5p (miR-135a). MiR-135a inhibition stimulates NPC proliferation leading to increased neurogenesis, but not astrogliogenesis, in DG of resting mice, and intriguingly it re-activates NPC proliferation in aged mice. We identify 17 proteins (11 putative targets) modulated by miR-135 in NPCs. Of note, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor 1 and inositol polyphosphate-4-phosphatase type I are among the modulated proteins, suggesting that IP3 signaling may act downstream miR-135. miR-135 is the first noncoding RNA essential modulator of the brain's response to physical exercise. Prospectively, the miR-135-IP3 axis might represent a novel target of therapeutic intervention to prevent pathological brain aging.
PXD013443	31130465	Polyamines and eIF5A Hypusination Modulate Mitochondrial Respiration and Macrophage Activation. 	Polyamines and eIF5A hypusination modulate mitochondrial respiration and macrophage activation	eIF5A, macrophage, polyamine	How cells adapt metabolism to meet demands is an active area of interest across biology. Among a broad range of functions, the polyamine spermidine is needed to hypusinate the translation factor eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF5A). We show here that hypusinated eIF5A (eIF5A(H)) promotes the efficient expression of a subset of mitochondrial proteins involved in the TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Several of these proteins have mitochondrial targeting sequences (MTSs) that in part confer an increased dependency on eIF5AH. In macrophages, metabolic switching between OXPHOS and glycolysis supports divergent functional fates stimulated by activation signals. In these cells, hypusination of eIF5A appears to be dynamically regulated after activation. Using in vivo and in vitro models, we show that acute inhibition of this pathway blunts OXPHOS-dependent alternative activation, while leaving aerobic glycolysis-dependent classical activation intact. These results might have implications for therapeutically controlling macrophage activation by targeting the polyamine-eIF5A-hypusine axis.
PXD013353	31130514	Probing the Tumor Suppressor Function of BAP1 in CRISPR-Engineered Human Liver Organoids. 	Probing the Tumour Suppressor Function of BAP1 in CRISPR-engineered Human Liver Organoids	BAP1, CRISPR-Cas9, Human Cholangiocarcinoma, human liver organoids, human tumor modelling, multiomics	The deubiquitinating enzyme BAP1 is a tumor suppressor, among others involved in cholangiocarcinoma. BAP1 has many proposed molecular targets, while its Drosophila homolog is known to deubiquitinate histone H2AK119. We introduce BAP1 loss-of-function by CRISPR/Cas9 in normal human cholangiocyte organoids. We find that BAP1 controls the expression of junctional and cytoskeleton components by regulating chromatin accessibility. Consequently, we observe loss of multiple epithelial characteristics while motility increases. Importantly, restoring the catalytic activity of BAP1 in the nucleus rescues these cellular and molecular changes. We engineer human liver organoids to combine four common cholangiocarcinoma mutations (TP53, PTEN, SMAD4, and NF1). In this genetic background, BAP1 loss results in acquisition of malignant features upon xenotransplantation. Thus, control of epithelial identity through the regulation of chromatin accessibility appears to be a key aspect of BAP1's tumor suppressor function. Organoid technology combined with CRISPR/Cas9 provides an experimental platform for mechanistic studies of cancer gene function in a human context.
PXD013089	31131048	In-depth serum proteomics reveals biomarkers of psoriasis severity and response to traditional Chinese medicine. 	In-depth Serum Proteomics in Psoriasis reveals novel biomarkers for disease activity and response to Traditional Chinese Medicine	Psoriasis, Serum Proteomics	Serum and plasma contain abundant biological information that reflect the body's physiological and pathological conditions and are therefore a valuable sample type for disease biomarkers. However, comprehensive profiling of the serological proteome is challenging due to the wide range of protein concentrations in serum. Methods: To address this challenge, we developed a novel in-depth serum proteomics platform capable of analyzing the serum proteome across ~10 orders or magnitude by combining data obtained from Data Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry (DIA-MS) and customizable antibody microarrays. Results: Using psoriasis as a proof-of-concept disease model, we screened 50 serum proteomes from healthy controls and psoriasis patients before and after treatment with traditional Chinese medicine (YinXieLing) on our in-depth serum proteomics platform. We identified 106 differentially-expressed proteins in psoriasis patients involved in psoriasis-relevant biological processes, such as blood coagulation, inflammation, apoptosis and angiogenesis signaling pathways. In addition, unbiased clustering and principle component analysis revealed 58 proteins discriminating healthy volunteers from psoriasis patients and 12 proteins distinguishing responders from non-responders to YinXieLing. To further demonstrate the clinical utility of our platform, we performed correlation analyses between serum proteomes and psoriasis activity and found a positive association between the psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) score with three serum proteins (PI3, CCL22, IL-12B). Conclusion: Taken together, these results demonstrate the clinical utility of our in-depth serum proteomics platform to identify specific diagnostic and predictive biomarkers of psoriasis and other immune-mediated diseases.
PXD013507	31133702	DamC reveals principles of chromatin folding in vivo without crosslinking and ligation. 	Modeling of DNA methylation in cis reveals principles of chromatin folding in vivo in the absence of crosslinking and ligation	CTCF-associated loops, TADs, chromosomal interactions, chromosome folding, mouse embryonic stem cells, proteomic ruler, topologically associating domains	Current understanding of chromosome folding is largely reliant on chromosome conformation capture (3C)-based experiments, where chromosomal interactions are detected as ligation products after chromatin crosslinking. To measure chromosome structure in vivo, quantitatively and without crosslinking and ligation, we implemented a modified version of DNA adenine methyltransferase identification (DamID) named DamC, which combines DNA methylation-based detection of chromosomal interactions with next-generation sequencing and biophysical modeling of methylation kinetics. DamC performed in mouse embryonic stem cells provides the first in vivo validation of the existence of topologically associating domains (TADs), CTCF loops and confirms 3C-based measurements of the scaling of contact probabilities. Combining DamC with transposon-mediated genomic engineering shows that new loops can be formed between ectopic and endogenous CTCF sites, which redistributes physical interactions within TADs. DamC provides the first crosslinking- and ligation-free demonstration of the existence of key structural features of chromosomes and provides novel insights into how chromosome structure within TADs can be manipulated.
PXD012715	31133746	MTHFD1 interaction with BRD4 links folate metabolism to transcriptional regulation. 	BRD4 IP MS in leukemia -  MTHFD1 interaction with BRD4 links folate metabolism to transcriptional regulation	BRD4, MTHFD1, complex, leukemia	The histone acetyl reader bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) is an important regulator of chromatin structure and transcription, yet factors modulating its activity have remained elusive. Here we describe two complementary screens for genetic and physical interactors of BRD4, which converge on the folate pathway enzyme MTHFD1 (methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, cyclohydrolase and formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase 1). We show that a fraction of MTHFD1 resides in the nucleus, where it is recruited to distinct genomic loci by direct interaction with BRD4. Inhibition of either BRD4 or MTHFD1 results in similar changes in nuclear metabolite composition and gene expression; pharmacological inhibitors of the two pathways synergize to impair cancer cell viability in vitro and in vivo. Our finding that MTHFD1 and other metabolic enzymes are chromatin associated suggests a direct role for nuclear metabolism in the control of gene expression.
PXD010595	31133760	Prosit: proteome-wide prediction of peptide tandem mass spectra by deep learning. 	ProteomeTools - Part II -  Prosit: proteome-wide prediction of peptide tandem mass spectra by deep learning	"Synthetic peptides, Benchmarking, EPIC-XS, Fusion Lumos, Immunopeptidomics, Machine learning, Proteome Tools", ProteomeTools, ProteomeXchange project tag: Deep learning, Proteometools, Retention time, peptide	In mass-spectrometry-based proteomics, the identification and quantification of peptides and proteins heavily rely on sequence database searching or spectral library matching. The lack of accurate predictive models for fragment ion intensities impairs the realization of the full potential of these approaches. Here, we extended the ProteomeTools synthetic peptide library to 550,000 tryptic peptides and 21 million high-quality tandem mass spectra. We trained a deep neural network, termed Prosit, resulting in chromatographic retention time and fragment ion intensity predictions that exceed the quality of the experimental data. Integrating Prosit into database search pipelines led to more identifications at >10x lower false discovery rates. We show the general applicability of Prosit by predicting spectra for proteases other than trypsin, generating spectral libraries for data-independent acquisition and improving the analysis of metaproteomes. Prosit is integrated into ProteomicsDB, allowing search result re-scoring and custom spectral library generation for any organism on the basis of peptide sequence alone.
PXD010382	31133761	High-quality MS/MS spectrum prediction for data-dependent and data-independent acquisition data analysis. 	High quality MS/MS spectrum prediction for data-dependent and -independent acquisition data analysis	Andromeda, DIA, Deep learning, Intensity prediction, Machine learning	Peptide fragmentation spectra are routinely predicted in the interpretation of mass-spectrometry-based proteomics data. However, the generation of fragment ions has not been understood well enough for scientists to estimate fragment ion intensities accurately. Here, we demonstrate that machine learning can predict peptide fragmentation patterns in mass spectrometers with accuracy within the uncertainty of measurement. Moreover, analysis of our models reveals that peptide fragmentation depends on long-range interactions within a peptide sequence. We illustrate the utility of our models by applying them to the analysis of both data-dependent and data-independent acquisition datasets. In the former case, we observe a q-value-dependent increase in the total number of peptide identifications. In the latter case, we confirm that the use of predicted tandem mass spectrometry spectra is nearly equivalent to the use of spectra from experimental libraries.
PXD013629	31136099	Plasma proteome plus site-specific N-glycoprofiling for hepatobiliary carcinomas. 	Plasma Proteome for Hepatobiliary Carcinomas	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cancer (B/D-HPP), Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP), liver, plasma	Hepatobiliary cancer is the third leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Appropriate markers for early diagnosis, monitoring of disease progression, and prediction of postsurgical outcome are still lacking. As the majority of circulating N-glycoproteins are originated from the hepatobiliary system, we sought to explore new markers by assessing the dynamics of N-glycoproteome in plasma samples from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), or combined HCC and CCA (cHCC-CCA). Using a mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic approach, we found that 57 of 5358 identified plasma proteins were differentially expressed in hepatobiliary cancers. The levels of four essential proteins, including complement C3 and apolipoprotein C-III in HCC, galectin-3-binding protein in CCA, and 72 kDa inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase in cHCC-CCA, were highly correlated with tumor stage, tumor grade, recurrence-free survival, and overall survival. Postproteomic site-specific N-glycan analyses showed that human complement C3 bears high-mannose and hybrid glycoforms rather than complex glycoforms at Asn85. The abundance of complement C3 with mannose-5 or mannose-6 glycoform at Asn85 was associated with HCC tumor grade. Furthermore, stepwise Cox regression analyses revealed that HCC patients with a hybrid glycoform at Asn85 of complement C3 had a lower postsurgery tumor recurrence rate or mortality rate than those with a low amount of complement C3 protein. In conclusion, our data show that particular plasma N-glycoproteins with specific N-glycan compositions could be potential noninvasive markers to evaluate oncological status and prognosis of hepatobiliary cancers.
PXD010885	31136617	The human brain somatostatin interactome: SST binds selectively to P-type family ATPases. 	Somatostatin-interacting human brain proteins	Alzheimer disease, amyloid beta, biotinylation, brain, endocrine, interactome, neuroendocrine, orbitrap, somatostatin	Somatostatin (SST) is a cyclic peptide that is understood to inhibit the release of hormones and neurotransmitters from a variety of cells by binding to one of five canonical G protein-coupled SST receptors (SSTR1 to SSTR5). Recently, SST was also observed to interact with the amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide and affect its aggregation kinetics, raising the possibility that it may bind other brain proteins. Here we report on an SST interactome analysis that made use of human brain extracts as biological source material and incorporated advanced mass spectrometry workflows for the relative quantitation of SST binding proteins. The analysis revealed SST to predominantly bind several members of the P-type family of ATPases. Subsequent validation experiments confirmed an interaction between SST and the sodium-potassium pump (Na+/K+-ATPase) and identified a tryptophan residue within SST as critical for binding. Functional analyses in three different cell lines indicated that SST might negatively modulate the K+ uptake rate of the Na+/K+-ATPase.
PXD013311	31137727	Profiling of Epigenetic Features in Clinical Samples Reveals Novel Widespread Changes in Cancer. 	Profiling of epigenetic features in clinical samples reveals novel widespread changes in cancer	cancer, epigenetics, histone post-translational modifications	Aberrations in histone post-translational modifications (PTMs), as well as in the histone modifying enzymes (HMEs) that catalyze their deposition and removal, have been reported in many tumors and many epigenetic inhibitors are currently under investigation for cancer treatment. Therefore, profiling epigenetic features in cancer could have important implications for the discovery of both biomarkers for patient stratification and novel epigenetic targets. In this study, we employed mass spectrometry-based approaches to comprehensively profile histone H3 PTMs in a panel of normal and tumoral tissues for different cancer types, identifying various changes, some of which appear to be a consequence of the increased proliferation rate of tumors, while others are cell-cycle independent. Histone PTM changes found in tumors partially correlate with alterations of the gene expression profiles of HMEs obtained from publicly available data and are generally lost in culture conditions. Through this analysis, we identified tumor- and subtype-specific histone PTM changes, but also widespread changes in the levels of histone H3 K9me3 and K14ac marks. In particular, H3K14ac showed a cell-cycle independent decrease in all the seven tumor/tumor subtype models tested and could represent a novel epigenetic hallmark of cancer.&nbsp.
PXD011169	31137935	Universal Solid-Phase Protein Preparation (USP(3)) for Bottom-up and Top-down Proteomics. 	Universal Solid-Phase Protein Preparation (USP3) for bottom-up and top-down proteomics	bottom-up proteomics, intact mass spectrometry, top-down proteomics, universal solid-phase protein preparation	Selecting a sample preparation strategy for mass spectrometry-based proteomics is critical to the success of quantitative workflows. Here we present a universal, solid-phase protein preparation (USP(3)) method which is rapid, robust, and scalable, facilitating high-throughput protein sample preparation for bottom-up and top-down mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. This technique builds upon the single-pot solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3) where we now demonstrate its scalability (low to high micrograms of protein) and the influence of variables such as bead and enzyme amounts on the efficiency of protein digestion. We also incorporate acid hydrolysis of DNA and RNA during complete proteome extraction resulting in a more reliable method that is simple and easy to implement for routine and high-throughput analysis of proteins. We benchmarked the performance of this technique against filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) using 30 mug of total HeLa protein lysate. We also show that the USP(3) method is compatible with top-down MS where we reproducibly detect over 1800 proteoforms from 50 mug of HeLa protein lysate. The USP(3) protocol allows for efficient and reproducible data to be generated in a cost-effective and robust manner with minimal down time between sample collection and analysis by MS.
PXD011759	31138622	Extensive Posttranscriptional Regulation of Nuclear Gene Expression by Plastid Retrograde Signals. 	lincomycin treatment wild type and gun1-101	retrograde signaling	Retrograde signals emanate from the DNA-containing cell organelles (plastids and mitochondria) and control the expression of a large number of nuclear genes in response to environmental and developmental cues. Previous studies on retrograde signaling have mainly analyzed the regulation of nuclear gene expression at the transcript level. To determine the contribution of translational and posttranslational regulation to plastid retrograde signaling, we combined label-free proteomics with transcriptomic analysis of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings and studied their response to interference with the plastid gene expression pathway of retrograde signaling. By comparing the proteomes of the genomes uncoupled1 (gun1) and gun5 mutants with the wild type, we show that GUN1 is critical in the maintenance of plastid protein homeostasis (proteostasis) when plastid translation is blocked. Combining transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of the wild type and gun1, we identified 181 highly translationally or posttranslationally regulated (HiToP) genes. We demonstrate that HiToP photosynthesis-associated nuclear genes (PhANGs) are largely regulated by translational repression, while HiToP ribosomal protein genes are regulated posttranslationally, likely at the level of protein stability without the involvement of GUN1. Our findings suggest distinct posttranscriptional control mechanisms of nuclear gene expression in response to plastid-derived retrograde signals. They also reveal a role for GUN1 in the translational regulation of several PhANGs and highlight extensive posttranslational regulation that does not necessitate GUN1. This study advances our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying intracellular communication and provides new insight into cellular responses to impaired plastid protein biosynthesis.
PXD010161	31138642	Global Proteome and Ubiquitinome Changes in the Soluble and Insoluble Fractions of Q175 Huntington Mice Brains. 	Proteome and ubiquitinome changes in Huntington's disease	Brain, Huntington, LFQ, PTMs, Ubiquitination, diGly	Huntington's disease is caused by a polyglutamine repeat expansion in the huntingtin protein which affects the function and folding of the protein, and results in intracellular protein aggregates. Here, we examined whether this mutation leads to altered ubiquitination of huntingtin and other proteins in both soluble and insoluble fractions of brain lysates of the Q175 knock-in Huntington's disease mouse model and the Q20 wild-type mouse model. Ubiquitination sites are detected by identification of Gly-Gly (diGly) remnant motifs that remain on modified lysine residues after digestion. We identified K6, K9, K132, K804, and K837 as endogenous ubiquitination sites of soluble huntingtin, with wild-type huntingtin being mainly ubiquitinated at K132, K804, and K837. Mutant huntingtin protein levels were strongly reduced in the soluble fraction whereas K6 and K9 were mainly ubiquitinated. In the insoluble fraction increased levels of huntingtin K6 and K9 diGly sites were observed for mutant huntingtin as compared with wild type. Besides huntingtin, proteins with various roles, including membrane organization, transport, mRNA processing, gene transcription, translation, catabolic processes and oxidative phosphorylation, were differently expressed or ubiquitinated in wild-type and mutant huntingtin brain tissues. Correlating protein and diGly site fold changes in the soluble fraction revealed that diGly site abundances of most of the proteins were not related to protein fold changes, indicating that these proteins were differentially ubiquitinated in the Q175 mice. In contrast, both the fold change of the protein level and diGly site level were increased for several proteins in the insoluble fraction, including ubiquitin, ubiquilin-2, sequestosome-1/p62 and myo5a. Our data sheds light on putative novel proteins involved in different cellular processes as well as their ubiquitination status in Huntington's disease, which forms the basis for further mechanistic studies to understand the role of differential ubiquitination of huntingtin and ubiquitin-regulated processes in Huntington's disease.
PXD010819	31138643	The Systemin Signaling Cascade As Derived from Time Course Analyses of the Systemin-responsive Phosphoproteome. 	Perception of the peptide hormone Systemin	Phosphoproteomics, Solanum peruvianum, Systemin, membrane proteins	Systemin is a small peptide with important functions in plant wound response signaling. Although the transcriptional responses of systemin action are well described, the signaling cascades involved in systemin perception and signal transduction at the protein level are poorly understood. Here we used a tomato cell suspension culture system to profile phosphoproteomic responses induced by systemin and its inactive Thr17Ala analog, allowing us to reconstruct a systemin-specific kinase/phosphatase signaling network. Our time-course analysis revealed early phosphorylation events at the plasma membrane, such as dephosphorylation of H(+)-ATPase, rapid phosphorylation of NADPH-oxidase and Ca(2+)-ATPase. Later responses involved transient phosphorylation of small GTPases, vesicle trafficking proteins and transcription factors. Based on a correlation analysis of systemin-induced phosphorylation profiles, we predicted substrate candidates for 44 early systemin-responsive kinases, which includes receptor kinases and downstream kinases such as MAP kinases, as well as nine phosphatases. We propose a regulatory module in which H(+)-ATPase LHA1 is rapidly de-phosphorylated at its C-terminal regulatory residue T955 by phosphatase PLL5, resulting in the alkalization of the growth medium within 2 mins of systemin treatment. We found the MAP kinase MPK2 to have increased phosphorylation level at its activating TEY-motif at 15 min post-treatment. The predicted interaction of MPK2 with LHA1 was confirmed by in vitro kinase assays, suggesting that the H(+)-ATPase LHA1 is re-activated by MPK2 later in the systemin response. Our data set provides a resource of proteomic events involved in systemin signaling that will be valuable for further in-depth functional studies in elucidation of systemin signaling cascades.
PXD012040	31138678	VGLL3 operates via TEAD1, TEAD3 and TEAD4 to influence myogenesis in skeletal muscle. 	VGLL3 Skeletal Muscle -  VGLL3 operates via TEAD1, TEAD3 and TEAD4 to influence myogenesis in skeletal muscle	IP, Immunoprecipitation, VGLL3	VGLL proteins are transcriptional co-factors that bind TEAD family transcription factors to regulate events ranging from wing development in fly, to muscle fibre composition and immune function in mice. Here, we characterise Vgll3 in skeletal muscle. We found that mouse Vgll3 was expressed at low levels in healthy muscle but that its levels increased during hypertrophy or regeneration; in humans, VGLL3 was highly expressed in tissues from patients with various muscle diseases, such as in dystrophic muscle and alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. Interaction proteomics revealed that VGLL3 bound TEAD1, TEAD3 and TEAD4 in myoblasts and/or myotubes. However, there was no interaction with proteins from major regulatory systems such as the Hippo kinase cascade, unlike what is found for the TEAD co-factors YAP (encoded by YAP1) and TAZ (encoded by WWTR1). Vgll3 overexpression reduced the activity of the Hippo negative-feedback loop, affecting expression of muscle-regulating genes including Myf5, Pitx2 and Pitx3, and genes encoding certain Wnts and IGFBPs. VGLL3 mainly repressed gene expression, regulating similar genes to those regulated by YAP and TAZ. siRNA-mediated Vgll3 knockdown suppressed myoblast proliferation, whereas Vgll3 overexpression strongly promoted myogenic differentiation. However, skeletal muscle was overtly normal in Vgll3-null mice, presumably due to feedback signalling and/or redundancy. This work identifies VGLL3 as a transcriptional co-factor operating with the Hippo signal transduction network to control myogenesis.
PXD013075	31138768	KRAS(G12C) inhibition produces a driver-limited state revealing collateral dependencies. 	KRASG12C inhibition produces a driver-limited state revealing collateral dependencies	KRAS, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer	Inhibitors targeting KRAS(G12C), a mutant form of the guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) KRAS, are a promising new class of oncogene-specific therapeutics for the treatment of tumors driven by the mutant protein. These inhibitors react with the mutant cysteine residue by binding covalently to the switch-II pocket (S-IIP) that is present only in the inactive guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-bound form of KRAS(G12C), sparing the wild-type protein. We used a genome-scale CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) functional genomics platform to systematically identify genetic interactions with a KRAS(G12C) inhibitor in cellular models of KRAS(G12C) mutant lung and pancreatic cancer. Our data revealed genes that were selectively essential in this oncogenic driver-limited cell state, meaning that their loss enhanced cellular susceptibility to direct KRAS(G12C) inhibition. We termed such genes "collateral dependencies" (CDs) and identified two classes of combination therapies targeting these CDs that increased KRAS(G12C) target engagement or blocked residual survival pathways in cells and in vivo. From our findings, we propose a framework for assessing genetic dependencies induced by oncogene inhibition.
PXD007754	31138830	Neutrophil Extracellular Traps protein composition is specific for patients with Lupus nephritis and includes methyl-oxidized alphaenolase (methionine sulfoxide 93). 	Lupus Nephritis is characterized by defective removal of Neutrophil Extracellular Traps that are modified in protein composition  and  contain specific auto-antigens.	Lupus Nephritis	NETs constitute a network of DNA and proteins released by neutrophils in response to infectious and immunologic triggers. NET proteins are recognized as autoantigens in ANCA vasculitis; limited knowledge is available in other autoimmune pathologies. The composition of NETs produced ex vivo by resting and Phorbol-myristate acetate (PMA) stimulated neutrophils was analyzed by high-throughput Fusion Orbitrap technology in 16 patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus/Lupus nephritis (9 SLE/7 LN) and in 11 controls. Seven-hundred proteins were characterized and specific fingerprints discriminated LN from SLE. We focused on methyl-oxidized alphaenolase (methionine sulfoxide 93) that was markedly increased in NETs from LN and was localized in NET filaments in tight connection and outlying DNA. The isotype of anti-alphaenolase antibodies was IgG2 in LN and IgG4 in other autoimmune glomerulonephritis (Membranous Nephropathy, MN); serum anti-alphaenolase IgG2 were higher in LN than in SLE and absent in MN. The same IgG2 antibodies recognized 5 epitopes of the protein one containing methionine sulphoxide 93. In conclusion, specific NET protein fingerprints characterize different subsets of SLE; methyl-oxidized alphaenolase is over-expressed in LN. Circulating anti-alphaenolase IgG2 recognize the oxidized epitope and are high in serum of LN patients. Post-translational modified NET proteins contribute to autoimmunity in patients with LN.
PXD012081	31139151	The Effect of Wnt Pathway Modulators on Human iPSC-Derived Pancreatic Beta Cell Maturation. 	Wnt-modulated hiPSC-derived insulin-producing cells, adult human islet proteome	LC-MS3	Current published protocols for targeted differentiation of human stem cells toward pancreatic beta-cells fail to deliver sufficiently mature cells with functional properties comparable to human islet beta-cells. We aimed to assess whether Wnt-modulation could promote the final protocol stages of beta-cell maturation, building our hypothesis on our previous findings of Wnt activation in immature hiPSC-derived stage 7 (S7) cells compared to adult human islets and with recent data reporting a link between Wnt/PCP and in vitro beta-cell maturation. In this study, we stimulated canonical and non-canonical Wnt signaling in hiPSC-derived S7 cells using syntetic proteins including WNT3A, WNT4, WNT5A and WNT5B, and we inhibited endogenous Wnt signaling with the Tankyrase inhibitor G007-LK (TKi). Whereas neither canonical nor non-canonical Wnt stimulation alone was able to mature hiPSC-derived S7 cells, WNT-inhibition with TKi increased the fraction of monohormonal cells and global proteomics of TKi-treated S7 cells showed a proteomic signature more similar to adult human islets, suggesting that inhibition of endogenous Wnt contributes toward final beta-cell maturation.
PXD013397	31139569	Novel Prognostic Markers in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Discovered by MALDI-Mass Spectrometry Imaging. 	Prognostic Markers in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer	MALDI imaging, breast cancer, triple-negative	There are no widely-accepted prognostic markers currently available to predict outcomes in patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), and no targeted therapies with confirmed benefit. We have used MALDI mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) of tryptic peptides to compare regions of cancer and benign tissue in 10 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections of TNBC tumors. Proteins were identified by reference to a peptide library constructed by LC-MALDI-MS/MS analyses of the same tissues. The prognostic significance of proteins that distinguished between cancer and benign regions was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis of their gene expression from public databases. Among peptides that distinguished between cancer and benign tissue in at least 3 tissues with a ROC area under the curve >0.7, 14 represented proteins identified from the reference library, including proteins not previously associated with breast cancer. Initial network analysis using the STRING database showed no obvious functional relationships except among collagen subunits COL1A1, COL1A2, and COL63A, but manual curation, including the addition of EGFR to the analysis, revealed a unique network connecting 10 of the 14 proteins. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis to examine the relationship between tumor expression of genes encoding the 14 proteins, and recurrence-free survival (RFS) in patients with basal-like TNBC showed that, compared to low expression, high expression of nine of the genes was associated with significantly worse RFS, most with hazard ratios >2. In contrast, in estrogen receptor-positive tumors, high expression of these genes showed only low, or no, association with worse RFS. These proteins are proposed as putative markers of RFS in TNBC, and some may also be considered as possible targets for future therapies.
PXD013601	31142615	The E3 ubiquitin ligase MARCH2 regulates ERGIC3-dependent trafficking of secretory proteins. 	Identification of MARCH2 E3 ligase-substrates using proximity-dependent biotin labeling method	E3 ligase, MARCH2, secretory proteins	The E3 ubiquitin ligase membrane-associated ring-CH-type finger 2 (MARCH2) is known to be involved in intracellular vesicular trafficking, but its role in the early secretory pathway between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi compartments is largely unknown. Human ER-Golgi intermediate compartment protein 2 (ERGIC2) and ERGIC3 are orthologs of Erv41 and Erv46 in yeast, proteins that form a heteromeric complex, cycle between the ER and Golgi, and function as cargo receptors in both anterograde and retrograde protein trafficking. Here, we report that MARCH2 directs ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of ERGIC3 and that MARCH2 depletion increases endogenous ERGIC3 levels. We provide evidence that the lysine residues at positions 6 and 8 of ERGIC3 are the major sites of MARCH2-mediated ubiquitination. Of note, MARCH2 did not significantly decrease the levels of an ERGIC3 variant with lysine-to-arginine substitutions at residues 6 and 8. We also show that ERGIC3 binds to itself or to ERGIC2, whereas ERGIC2 is unable to interact with itself. Our results indicate that alpha1-antitrypsin and haptoglobin are likely to be cargo proteins of ERGIC3. We further observed that alpha1-antitrypsin and haptoglobin specifically bind to ERGIC3 and that ERGIC3 depletion decreases their secretion. Moreover, MARCH2 reduced secretion of alpha1-antitrypsin and haptoglobin, and coexpression of the ubiquitination-resistant ERGIC3 variant largely restored their secretion, suggesting that MARCH2-mediated ERGIC3 ubiquitination is the major cause of the decrease in trafficking of ERGIC3-binding secretory proteins. Our findings provide detailed insights into the regulation of the early secretory pathway by MARCH2 and into ERGIC3 function.
PXD013940	31142673	Temporal Proteomic Analysis of BK Polyomavirus Infection Reveals Virus-Induced G2 Arrest and Highly Effective Evasion of Innate Immune Sensing. 	Temporal proteomic analysis of BK polyomavirus infection reveals virus-induced G2 arrest and highly effective evasion of innate immune sensing	cell cycle, immune evasion, innate immunity, interferon, polyomavirus, quantitative proteomics, systems virology, tandem mass tag	BK polyomavirus (BKPyV) is a small DNA virus that establishes a life-long persistent infection in the urinary tract of most people. BKPyV is known to cause severe morbidity in renal transplant recipients and can lead to graft rejection. The simple 5.2-kbp double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) genome expresses just seven known proteins; thus, it relies heavily on the host machinery to replicate. How the host proteome changes over the course of infection is key to understanding this host-virus interplay. Here, for the first time quantitative temporal viromics has been used to quantify global changes in >9,000 host proteins in two types of primary human epithelial cells throughout 72 h of BKPyV infection. These data demonstrate the importance of cell cycle progression and pseudo-G2 arrest in effective BKPyV replication, along with a surprising lack of an innate immune response throughout the whole virus replication cycle. BKPyV thus evades pathogen recognition to prevent activation of innate immune responses in a sophisticated manner.IMPORTANCE BK polyomavirus can cause serious problems in immune-suppressed patients, in particular, kidney transplant recipients who can develop polyomavirus-associated kidney disease. In this work, we have used advanced proteomics techniques to determine the changes to protein expression caused by infection of two independent primary cell types of the human urinary tract (kidney and bladder) throughout the replication cycle of this virus. Our findings have uncovered new details of a specific form of cell cycle arrest caused by this virus, and, importantly, we have identified that this virus has a remarkable ability to evade detection by host cell defense systems. In addition, our data provide an important resource for the future study of kidney epithelial cells and their infection by urinary tract pathogens.
PXD012096	31142788	Runx2 stimulates neoangiogenesis through the Runt domain in melanoma. 	RUNX2 stimulates neoangiogenesis through the RUNT domain in melanoma	Melanoma, Neoangiogenesis, RUNX2	Runx2 is a transcription factor involved in melanoma cell migration and proliferation. Here, we extended the analysis of Runt domain of Runx2 in melanoma cells to deepen understanding of the underlying mechanisms. By the CRISPR/Cas9 system we generated the Runt KO melanoma cells 3G8. Interestingly, the proteome analysis showed a specific protein signature of 3G8 cells related to apoptosis and migration, and pointed out the involvement of Runt domain in the neoangiogenesis process. Among the proteins implicated in angiogenesis we identified fatty acid synthase, chloride intracellular channel protein-4, heat shock protein beta-1, Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1, D-3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase, myosin-1c and caveolin-1. Upon querying the TCGA provisional database for melanoma, the genes related to these proteins were found altered in 51.36% of total patients. In addition, VEGF gene expression was reduced in 3G8 as compared to A375 cells; and HUVEC co-cultured with 3G8 cells expressed lower levels of CD105 and CD31 neoangiogenetic markers. Furthermore, the tube formation assay revealed down-regulation of capillary-like structures in HUVEC co-cultured with 3G8 in comparison to those with A375 cells. These findings provide new insight into Runx2 molecular details which can be crucial to possibly propose it as an oncotarget of melanoma.
PXD008675	31142855	Multi-omics of the gut microbial ecosystem in inflammatory bowel diseases. 	Gut Microbial Ecosystem Multiomics in Inflammatory Bowel Disease	IBD, microbiome	Inflammatory bowel diseases, which include Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, affect several million individuals worldwide. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are complex diseases that are heterogeneous at the clinical, immunological, molecular, genetic, and microbial levels. Individual contributing factors have been the focus of extensive research. As part of the Integrative Human Microbiome Project (HMP2 or iHMP), we followed 132 subjects for one year each to generate integrated longitudinal molecular profiles of host and microbial activity during disease (up to 24 time points each; in total 2,965 stool, biopsy, and blood specimens). Here we present the results, which provide a comprehensive view of functional dysbiosis in the gut microbiome during inflammatory bowel disease activity. We demonstrate a characteristic increase in facultative anaerobes at the expense of obligate anaerobes, as well as molecular disruptions in microbial transcription (for example, among clostridia), metabolite pools (acylcarnitines, bile acids, and short-chain fatty acids), and levels of antibodies in host serum. Periods of disease activity were also marked by increases in temporal variability, with characteristic taxonomic, functional, and biochemical shifts. Finally, integrative analysis identified microbial, biochemical, and host factors central to this dysregulation. The study's infrastructure resources, results, and data, which are available through the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Multi'omics Database ( http://ibdmdb.org ), provide the most comprehensive description to date of host and microbial activities in inflammatory bowel diseases.
PXD011666	31144295	Loss of FBXO7 results in a Parkinson's-like dopaminergic degeneration via an RPL23-MDM2-TP53 pathway. 	Role of Fbxo7 in dopaminergic neurons	Fbxo7/PARK15, Parkinsons disease, dopaminergic	The field of Parkinson's disease research has been impeded by the absence of animal models that clearly phenocopy the features of this neurodegenerative condition. Mutations in FBXO7/PARK15 are associated with both sporadic Parkinson's disease and a severe form of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinsonism. Here we report that conditional deletion of Fbxo7 in the midbrain dopamine neurons results in an early reduction in striatal dopamine levels, together with a slow, progressive loss of midbrain dopamine neurons and onset of locomotor defects. Unexpectedly, a later compensatory response led to a near-full restoration of dopaminergic fibre innervation in the striatum, but nigral cell loss was irreversible. Mechanistically, there was increased expression in the dopamine neurons of FBXO7-interacting protein, RPL23, which is a sensor of ribosomal stress that inhibits MDM2, the negative regulator of p53. A corresponding activated p53 transcriptional signature biased towards pro-apoptotic genes was also observed. These data suggest that the neuroprotective role of FBXO7 involves its suppression of the RPL23-MDM2-p53 axis that promotes cell death in dopaminergic midbrain neurons. (c) 2019 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD033442	31146187	Proteomic profiles of buffalo spermatozoa and seminal plasma. 	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Seminal Plasma Exosomes in Buffalo with High and Low Sperm Motility	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, activity, buffalo, exosomes, seminal plasma, sperm motility	A comprehensive identification of the proteins of spermatozoa and seminal plasma enables the full characterization of sperm biology and is essential to understand how seminal plasma influences sperm fertility. In this study, proteomics of buffalo spermatozoa and seminal plasma were analyzed using a bottom-up approach. A total of 2147 and 864 proteins were identified from mature spermatozoa and seminal plasma, respectively. Of these, 371 proteins-42.9% in the seminal plasma set-were common to both spermatozoa and seminal plasma. ODF2, AKAP4, and TUBB were the most highly abundant proteins of spermatozoa whereas the three most highly abundant proteins in seminal plasma were ALB, CLU, and AZGP1. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis indicated that most sperm proteins were involved in transport, phosphorylation and macromolecule localization. More seminal plasma proteins were related to proteolysis, response to stimulus and homeostatic process. Pathways associated with energy metabolism, protein processing and RNA transport were significantly enriched in spermatozoa. In buffalo seminal plasma, three distinguishing GO pathways-proteasome activity, lysosomal activity, complement and coagulation cascades-were found to play important roles in sperm protection. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis indicated that 531 and 620 proteins participated in buffalo sperm and seminal plasma PPI networks, respectively. Sub-network mining elaborated detailed biological events. This study is the first to provide an in-depth proteomic analysis of buffalo spermatozoa and seminal plasma. The results extend our understanding of male buffalo reproduction and provide clues for determining the relationships between sperm biology and seminal plasma.
PXD010118	31146973	RNA-Seq and protein mass spectrometry in microdissected kidney tubules reveal signaling processes initiating lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. 	Signaling Mechanisms in Initiation of Lithium-Induced Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus	cortical collecting duct, kidney, lithium	Lithium salts, used for treating bipolar disorder, frequently induce nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) thereby limiting therapeutic success. NDI is associated with loss of expression of the gene coding for the molecular water channel, aquaporin-2, in the renal collecting duct (CD). Here, we use systems biology methods in a well-established rat model of lithium-induced NDI to identify signaling pathways activated at the onset of polyuria. Using single-tubule RNA-Seq, full transcriptomes were determined in microdissected cortical collecting ducts (CCDs) of rats after 72 hours without or with initiation of lithium chloride administration. Transcriptome-wide changes in mRNA abundances were mapped to gene sets associated with curated canonical signaling pathways, showing evidence for activation of NF-kappaB signaling with induction of genes coding for multiple chemokines and most components of the Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I antigen-presenting complex. Administration of anti-inflammatory doses of dexamethasone to lithium chloride-treated rats countered the loss of aquaporin-2. RNA-Seq also confirmed prior evidence of a shift from quiescence into the cell cycle with arrest. Time course studies demonstrated an early (12 hour) increase in multiple immediate early response genes including several transcription factors. Protein mass spectrometry in microdissected CCDs provided corroborative evidence and identified decreased abundance of several anti-oxidant proteins. Thus, in the context of prior observations, our study can be best explained by a model in which lithium increases ERK activation leading to induction of NF-kappaB signaling and an inflammatory-like response that represses Aqp2 transcription.
PXD011500	31147388	PETISCO is a novel protein complex required for 21U RNA biogenesis and embryonic viability. 	PETISCO is a novel protein complex required for 21U RNA biogenesis and embryonic viability	C. elegans, IP	Piwi proteins are important for germ cell development in most animals. These proteins are guided to specific targets by small guide RNAs, referred to as piRNAs or 21U RNAs in Caenorhabditis elegans In this organism, even though genetic screens have uncovered 21U RNA biogenesis factors, little is known about how these factors interact or what they do. Based on the previously identified 21U biogenesis factor PID-1 (piRNA-induced silencing-defective 1), we here define a novel protein complex, PETISCO (PID-3, ERH-2, TOFU-6, and IFE-3 small RNA complex), that is required for 21U RNA biogenesis. PETISCO contains both potential 5' cap and 5' phosphate RNA-binding domains and interacts with capped 21U precursor RNA. We resolved the architecture of PETISCO and revealed a second function for PETISCO in embryonic development. This essential function of PETISCO is mediated not by PID-1 but by the novel protein TOST-1 (twenty-one U pathway antagonist). In contrast, TOST-1 is not essential for 21U RNA biogenesis. Both PID-1 and TOST-1 interact directly with ERH-2 using a conserved sequence motif. Finally, our data suggest a role for TOST-1:PETISCO in SL1 homeostasis in the early embryo. Our work describes a key complex for 21U RNA processing in C. elegans and strengthens the view that 21U RNA biogenesis is built on an snRNA-related pathway.
PXD013823	31147491	Intact Transition Epitope Mapping - Targeted High-Energy Rupture of Extracted Epitopes (ITEM-THREE). 	Intact Transition Epitope Mapping-Targeted High-Energy Rupture of Extracted Epitopes (ITEM-THREE)	ITEM-THREE, NanoESI, collision induced dissociation, epitope antibody complexes, ion mobility separation, molecular recognition, recombinant proteins	Epitope mapping, which is the identification of antigenic determinants, is essential for the design of novel antibody-based therapeutics and diagnostic tools. ITEM-THREE is a mass spectrometry-based epitope mapping method that can identify epitopes on antigens upon generating an immune complex in electrospray-compatible solutions by adding an antibody of interest to a mixture of peptides from which at least one holds the antibody's epitope. This mixture is nano-electrosprayed without purification. Identification of the epitope peptide is performed within a mass spectrometer that provides an ion mobility cell sandwiched in-between two collision cells and where this ion manipulation setup is flanked by a quadrupole mass analyzer on one side and a time-of-flight mass analyzer on the other side. In a stepwise fashion, immune-complex ions are separated from unbound peptide ions and dissociated to release epitope peptide ions. Immune complex-released peptide ions are separated from antibody ions and fragmented by collision induced dissociation. Epitope-containing peptide fragment ions are recorded, and mass lists are submitted to unsupervised data base search thereby retrieving both, the amino acid sequence of the epitope peptide and the originating antigen. ITEM-THREE was developed with antiTRIM21 and antiRA33 antibodies for which the epitopes were known, subjecting them to mixtures of synthetic peptides of which one contained the respective epitope. ITEM-THREE was then successfully tested with an enzymatic digest of His-tagged recombinant human beta-actin and an antiHis-tag antibody, as well as with an enzymatic digest of recombinant human TNFalpha and an antiTNFalpha antibody whose epitope was previously unknown.
PXD011284	31147492	Sucrose-induced Receptor Kinase 1 is Modulated by an Interacting Kinase with Short Extracellular Domain. 	search substrates of receptor kinase complex SIRK1/QSK1	Arabisopsis, phosphoproteomics, receptor kinase	Sucrose as a product of photosynthesis is the major carbohydrate translocated from photosynthetic leaves to growing nonphotosynthetic organs such as roots and seeds. These growing tissues, besides carbohydrate supply, require uptake of water through aquaporins to enhance cell expansion during growth. Previous work revealed Sucrose Induced Receptor Kinase, SIRK1, to control aquaporin activity via phosphorylation in response to external sucrose stimulation. Here, we present the regulatory role of AT3G02880 (QSK1), a receptor kinase with a short external domain, in modulation of SIRK1 activity. Our results suggest that SIRK1 autophosphorylates at Ser-744 after sucrose treatment. Autophosphorylated SIRK1 then interacts with and transphosphorylates QSK1 and QSK2. Upon interaction with QSK1, SIRK1 phosphorylates aquaporins at their regulatory C-terminal phosphorylation sites. Consequently, in root protoplast swelling assays, the qsk1qsk2 mutant showed reduced water influx rates under iso-osmotic sucrose stimulation, confirming an involvement in the same signaling pathway as the receptor kinase SIRK1. Large-scale phosphoproteomics comparing single mutant sirk1, qsk1, and double mutant sirk1 qsk1 revealed that aquaporins were regulated by phosphorylation depending on an activated receptor kinase complex of SIRK1, as well as QSK1. QSK1 thereby acts as a coreceptor stabilizing and enhancing SIRK1 activity and recruiting substrate proteins, such as aquaporins.
PXD012990	31147711	A Drosophila cell-free system that senses DNA breaks and triggers phosphorylation signalling. 	Identification of DNA-damage sensing factors in D.melanogaster	DNA double strand break, chromatin assembly, repair factors	Preblastoderm Drosophila embryo development is characterized by fast cycles of nuclear divisions. Extracts from these embryos can be used to reconstitute complex chromatin with high efficiency. We now discovered that this chromatin assembly system contains activities that recognize unprotected DNA ends and signal DNA damage through phosphorylation. DNA ends are initially bound by Ku and MRN complexes. Within minutes, the phosphorylation of H2A.V (homologous to gammaH2A.X) initiates from DNA breaks and spreads over tens of thousands DNA base pairs. The gammaH2A.V phosphorylation remains tightly associated with the damaged DNA and does not spread to undamaged DNA in the same reaction. This first observation of long-range gammaH2A.X spreading along damaged chromatin in an in vitro system provides a unique opportunity for mechanistic dissection. Upon further incubation, DNA ends are rendered single-stranded and bound by the RPA complex. Phosphoproteome analyses reveal damage-dependent phosphorylation of numerous DNA-end-associated proteins including Ku70, RPA2, CHRAC16, the exonuclease Rrp1 and the telomer capping complex. Phosphorylation of spindle assembly checkpoint components and of microtubule-associated proteins required for centrosome integrity suggests this cell-free system recapitulates processes involved in the regulated elimination of fatally damaged syncytial nuclei.
PXD013477	31147889	Assessing the Relationship Between Mass Window Width and Retention Time Scheduling on Protein Coverage for Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Assessing the relationship between mass window width and retention time scheduling on protein coverage for data-independent acquisition	DIA-MS, Oribtrap Fusion Lumos, RTwinDIA, Scheduling, Window size	Due to the technical advances of mass spectrometers, particularly increased scanning speed and higher MS/MS resolution, the use of data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) became more popular, which enables high reproducibility in both proteomic identification and quantification. The current DIA-MS methods normally cover a wide mass range, with the aim to target and identify as many peptides and proteins as possible and therefore frequently generate MS/MS spectra of high complexity. In this report, we assessed the performance and benefits of using small windows with, e.g., 5-m/z width across the peptide elution time. We further devised a new DIA method named RTwinDIA that schedules the small isolation windows in different retention time blocks, taking advantage of the fact that larger peptides are normally eluting later in reversed phase chromatography. We assessed the direct proteomic identification by using shotgun database searching tools such as MaxQuant and pFind, and also Spectronaut with an external comprehensive spectral library of human proteins. We conclude that algorithms like pFind have potential in directly analyzing DIA data acquired with small windows, and that the instrumental time and DIA cycle time, if prioritized to be spent on small windows rather than on covering a broad mass range by large windows, will improve the direct proteome coverage for new biological samples and increase the quantitative precision. These results further provide perspectives for the future convergence between DDA and DIA on faster MS analyzers.
PXD011986	31148576	Plasmodium pseudo-Tyrosine Kinase-like binds PP1 and SERA5 and is exported to host erythrocytes. 	IP pTKL	Plamodium	Pseudokinases play key roles in many biological processes but they are poorly understood compared to active kinases. Eight putative pseudokinases have been predicted in Plasmodium species. We selected the unique pseudokinase belonging to tyrosine kinase like (TKL) family for detailed structural and functional analysis in P. falciparum and P. berghei. The primary structure of PfpTKL lacks residues critical for kinase activity, supporting its annotation as a pseudokinase. The recombinant pTKL pseudokinase domain was able to bind ATP, but lacked catalytic activity as predicted. The sterile alpha motif (SAM) and RVxF motifs of PfpTKL were found to interact with the P. falciparum proteins serine repeat antigen 5 (SERA5) and protein phosphatase type 1 (PP1) respectively, suggesting that pTKL has a scaffolding role. Furthermore, we found that PP1c activity in a heterologous model was modulated in an RVxF-dependent manner. During the trophozoite stages, PbpTKL was exported to infected erythrocytes where it formed complexes with proteins involved in cytoskeletal organization or host cell maturation and homeostasis. Finally, genetic analysis demonstrated that viable strains obtained by genomic deletion or knocking down PbpTKL did not affect the course of parasite intra-erythrocytic development or gametocyte emergence, indicating functional redundancy during these parasite stages.
PXD007158	31150623	CerS6-Derived Sphingolipids Interact with Mff and Promote Mitochondrial Fragmentation in Obesity. 	HELA cells Sphingolipid pulldown (Cers6 and Cers5)	Cer6, Cers5, Click chemistry, HELA, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Sphingolipid, benchmarking, machine learning	Ectopic lipid deposition and altered mitochondrial dynamics contribute to the development of obesity and insulin resistance. However, the mechanistic link between these processes remained unclear. Here we demonstrate that the C16:0 sphingolipid synthesizing ceramide synthases, CerS5 and CerS6, affect distinct sphingolipid pools and that abrogation of CerS6 but not of CerS5 protects from obesity and insulin resistance. We identify proteins that specifically interact with C16:0 sphingolipids derived from CerS5 or CerS6. Here, only CerS6-derived C16:0 sphingolipids bind the mitochondrial fission factor (Mff). CerS6 and Mff deficiency protect from fatty acid-induced mitochondrial fragmentation in vitro, and the two proteins genetically interact in vivo in obesity-induced mitochondrial fragmentation and development of insulin resistance. Our experiments reveal an unprecedented specificity of sphingolipid signaling depending on specific synthesizing enzymes, provide a mechanistic link between hepatic lipid deposition and mitochondrial fragmentation in obesity, and define the CerS6-derived sphingolipid/Mff interaction as a therapeutic target for metabolic diseases.
PXD009686	31151397	Clinical biomarker discovery by SWATH-MS based label-free quantitative proteomics: impact of criteria for identification of differentiators and data normalization method. 	LC-MSMS of leukemic cell line K562	K562, SWATH-MS	BACKGROUND: SWATH-MS has emerged as the strategy of choice for biomarker discovery due to the proteome coverage achieved in acquisition and provision to re-interrogate the data. However, in quantitative analysis using SWATH, each sample from the comparison group is run individually in mass spectrometer and the resulting inter-run variation may influence relative quantification and identification of biomarkers. Normalization of data to diminish this variation thereby becomes an essential step in SWATH data processing. In most reported studies, data normalization methods used are those provided in instrument-based data analysis software or those used for microarray data. This study, for the first time provides an experimental evidence for selection of normalization method optimal for biomarker identification. METHODS: The efficiency of 12 normalization methods to normalize SWATH-MS data was evaluated based on statistical criteria in 'Normalyzer'-a tool which provides comparative evaluation of normalization by different methods. Further, the suitability of normalized data for biomarker discovery was assessed by evaluating the clustering efficiency of differentiators, identified from the normalized data based on p-value, fold change and both, by hierarchical clustering in Genesis software v.1.8.1. RESULTS: Conventional statistical criteria identified VSN-G as the optimal method for normalization of SWATH data. However, differentiators identified from VSN-G normalized data failed to segregate test and control groups. We thus assessed data normalized by eleven other methods for their ability to yield differentiators which segregate the study groups. Datasets in our study demonstrated that differentiators identified based on p-value from data normalized with Loess-R stratified the study groups optimally. CONCLUSION: This is the first report of experimentally tested strategy for SWATH-MS data processing with an emphasis on identification of clinically relevant biomarkers. Normalization of SWATH-MS data by Loess-R method and identification of differentiators based on p-value were found to be optimal for biomarker discovery in this study. The study also demonstrates the need to base the choice of normalization method on the application of the data.
PXD011160	31152013	Individual Physiological Adaptations Enable Selected Bacterial Taxa To Prevail during Long-Term Incubations. 	Grazing-resistance, antibiotic production and internal carbon cycling are characteristics for bacteria that prevail in long-term enclosure experiments	Baltic Sea, Enclosure experiments, metaproteome	Enclosure experiments are frequently used to investigate the impact of changing environmental conditions on microbial assemblages. Yet, how the incubation itself challenges complex bacterial communities is thus far unknown. In this study, metaproteomic profiling, 16S rRNA gene analyses, and cell counts were combined to evaluate bacterial communities derived from marine, mesohaline, and oligohaline conditions after long-term batch incubations. Early in the experiment, the three bacterial communities were highly diverse and differed significantly in their compositions. Manipulation of the enclosures with terrigenous dissolved organic carbon resulted in notable differences compared to the control enclosures at this early phase of the experiment. However, after 55 days, bacterial communities in the manipulated and the control enclosures under marine and mesohaline conditions were all dominated by gammaproteobacterium Spongiibacter In the oligohaline enclosures, actinobacterial cluster I of the hgc group (hgc-I) remained abundant in the late phase of the incubation. Metaproteome analyses suggested that the ability to use outer membrane-based internal energy stores, in addition to the previously described grazing resistance, may enable the gammaproteobacterium Spongiibacter to prevail in long-time incubations. Under oligohaline conditions, the utilization of external recalcitrant carbon appeared to be more important (hgc-I). Enclosure experiments with complex natural microbial communities are important tools to investigate the effects of manipulations. However, species-specific properties, such as individual carbon storage strategies, can cause manipulation-independent effects and need to be considered when interpreting results from enclosures.IMPORTANCE In microbial ecology, enclosure studies are often used to investigate the effect of single environmental factors on complex bacterial communities. However, in addition to the manipulation, unintended effects ("bottle effect") may occur due to the enclosure itself. In this study, we analyzed the bacterial communities that originated from three different salinities of the Baltic Sea, comparing their compositions and physiological activities both at the early stage and after 55 days of incubation. Our results suggested that internal carbon storage strategies impact the success of certain bacterial species, independent of the experimental manipulation. Thus, while enclosure experiments remain valid tools in environmental research, microbial community composition shifts must be critically followed. This investigation of the metaproteome during long-term batch enclosures expanded our current understanding of the so-called "bottle effect," which is well known to occur during enclosure experiments.
PXD013585	31152063	Musashi interaction with poly(A)-binding protein is required for activation of target mRNA translation. 	Musashi interaction with poly(A) binding protein is required for activation of target mRNA translation	Musashi, PABP, mRNA translation, oocyte, stem cell	The Musashi family of mRNA translational regulators controls both physiological and pathological stem cell self-renewal primarily by repressing target mRNAs that promote differentiation. In response to differentiation cues, Musashi can switch from a repressor to an activator of target mRNA translation. However, the molecular events that distinguish Musashi-mediated translational activation from repression are not understood. We have previously reported that Musashi function is required for the maturation of Xenopus oocytes and specifically for translational activation of specific dormant maternal mRNAs. Here, we employed MS to identify cellular factors necessary for Musashi-dependent mRNA translational activation. We report that Musashi1 needs to associate with the embryonic poly(A)-binding protein (ePABP) or the canonical somatic cell poly(A)-binding protein PABPC1 for activation of Musashi target mRNA translation. Co-immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated an increased Musashi1 interaction with ePABP during oocyte maturation. Attenuation of endogenous ePABP activity severely compromised Musashi function, preventing downstream signaling and blocking oocyte maturation. Ectopic expression of either ePABP or PABPC1 restored Musashi-dependent mRNA translational activation and maturation of ePABP-attenuated oocytes. Consistent with these Xenopus findings, PABPC1 remained associated with Musashi under conditions of Musashi target mRNA de-repression and translation during mammalian stem cell differentiation. Because association of Musashi1 with poly(A)-binding proteins has previously been implicated only in repression of Musashi target mRNAs, our findings reveal novel context-dependent roles for the interaction of Musashi with poly(A)-binding protein family members in response to extracellular cues that control cell fate.
PXD011185	31153037	HDL subclass proteomic analysis and functional implication of protein dynamic change during HDL maturation. 	Proteomic dynamic changes in HDL subfractions from mouse plasma	ESI-MS/MS, HDL, HDL subfractions, Plasam	Recent clinical trials reported that increasing high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) levels does not improve cardiovascular outcomes. We hypothesize that HDL proteome dynamics determine HDL cardioprotective functions. In this study, we characterized proteome profiles in HDL subclasses and established their functional connection. Mouse plasma was fractionized by fast protein liquid chromatography, examined for protein, cholesterial, phospholipid and trigliceride content. Small, medium and large (S/M/L)-HDL subclasseses were collected for proteomic analysis by mass spectrometry. Fifty-one HDL proteins (39 in S-HDL, 27 in M-HDL and 29 in L-HDL) were identified and grouped into 4 functional categories (lipid metabolism, immune response, coagulation, and others). Eleven HDL common proteins were identified in all HDL subclasses. Sixteen, 3 and 7 proteins were found only in S-HDL, M-HDL and L-HDL, respectively. We established HDL protein dynamic distribution in S/M/L-HDL and developed a model of protein composition change during HDL maturation. We found that cholesterol efflux and immune response are essential functions for all HDL particles, and amino acid metabolism is a special function of S-HDL, whereas anti-coagulation is special for M-HDL. Pon1 is recruited into M/L-HDL to provide its antioxidative function. ApoE is incorporated into L-HDL to optimize its cholesterial clearance function. Next, we acquired HDL proteome data from Pubmed and identified 12 replicated proteins in human and mouse HDL particle. Finally, we extracted 3 shared top moleccular pathways (LXR/RXR, FXR/RXR and acute phase response) for all HDL particles and 5 top disease/bio-functions differentially related to S/M/L-HDL subclasses, and presented one top net works for each HDL subclass. We conclude that beside their essencial functions of cholesterol efflux and immune response, HDL aquired antioxidative and cholesterol clearance functions by recruiting Pon1 and ApoE during HDL maturation.
PXD010220	31154437	A Combined N-terminomics and Shotgun Proteomics Approach to Investigate the Responses of Human Cells to Rapamycin and Zinc at the Mitochondrial Level. 	A combined N-terminomics and shotgun proteomics approach to investigate the responses of human cells to rapamycin and zinc at the mitochondrial level	N-terminome analysis, dN-TOP strategy, differential analysis, mitochondria, nanoLC-MS/MS	All but thirteen mammalian mitochondrial proteins are encoded by the nuclear genome, translated in the cytosol and then imported into the mitochondria. For a significant proportion of the mitochondrial proteins, import is coupled with the cleavage of a presequence called the transit peptide, and the formation of a new N-terminus. Determination of the neo N-termini has been investigated by proteomic approaches in several systems, but generally in a static way to compile as many N-termini as possible. In the present study, we have investigated how the mitochondrial proteome and N-terminome react to chemical stimuli that alter mitochondrial metabolism, namely zinc ions and rapamycin. To this end, we have used a strategy that analyzes both internal and N-terminal peptides in a single run, the dN-TOP approach. We used these two very different stressors to sort out what could be a generic response to stress and what is specific to each of these stressors. Rapamycin and zinc induced different changes in the mitochondrial proteome. However, convergent changes to key mitochondrial enzymatic activities such as pyruvate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase and citrate synthase were observed for both treatments. Other convergent changes were seen in components of the N-terminal processing system and mitochondrial proteases. Investigations into the generation of neo-N-termini in mitochondria showed that the processing system is robust, as indicated by the lack of change in neo N-termini under the conditions tested. Detailed analysis of the data revealed that zinc caused a slight reduction in the efficiency of the N-terminal trimming system and that both treatments increased the degradation of mitochondrial proteins. In conclusion, the use of this combined strategy allowed a detailed analysis of the dynamics of the mitochondrial N-terminome in response to treatments which impact the mitochondria.
PXD012593	31155234	The Translational Landscape of the Human Heart. 	TranslationalLandscape_HumanHeart	heart tissue, shot gun, targeted proteomics	Gene expression in human tissue has primarily been studied on the transcriptional level, largely neglecting translational regulation. Here, we analyze the translatomes of 80 human hearts to identify new translation events and quantify the effect of translational regulation. We show extensive translational control of cardiac gene expression, which is orchestrated in a process-specific manner. Translation downstream of predicted disease-causing protein-truncating variants appears to be frequent, suggesting inefficient translation termination. We identify hundreds of previously undetected microproteins, expressed from lncRNAs and circRNAs, for which we validate the protein products in vivo. The translation of microproteins is not restricted to the heart and prominent in the translatomes of human kidney and liver. We associate these microproteins with diverse cellular processes and compartments and find that many locate to the mitochondria. Importantly, dozens of microproteins are translated from lncRNAs with well-characterized noncoding functions, indicating previously unrecognized biology.
PXD013250	31155505	Therapeutic Regeneration of Lymphatic and Immune Cell Functions upon Lympho-organoid Transplantation. 	Proteomic profile of extracellular matrix-based scaffold obtained by culturing a murine spleen stromal cell line	Extracellular matrix, lympho-organoids, transplantation	Lymph nodes (LNs) are secondary lymphoid tissues that play a critical role in filtering the lymph and promoting adaptive immune responses. Surgical resection of LNs, radiation therapy, or infections may damage lymphatic vasculature and compromise immune functions. Here, we describe the generation of functional synthetic lympho-organoids (LOs) using LN stromal progenitors and decellularized extracellular matrix-based scaffolds, two basic constituents of secondary lymphoid tissues. We show that upon transplantation at the site of resected LNs, LOs become integrated into the endogenous lymphatic vasculature and efficiently restore lymphatic drainage and perfusion. Upon immunization, LOs support the activation of antigen-specific immune responses, thus acquiring properties of native lymphoid tissues. These findings provide a proof-of-concept strategy for the development of functional lympho-organoids suitable for restoring lymphatic and immune cell functions.
PXD011701	31157229	Detailed Soluble Proteome Analyses of a Dairy-Isolated Enterococcus faecalis: A Possible Approach to Assess Food Safety and Potential Probiotic Value. 	Detailed sub-proteome analysis of a cheese-isolated Enterococcus faecalis, provide insights into probiotic value and food safety	antibiotic resistance, foodborne bacteria, host interaction, virulence	Enterococci are common inhabitants of the gastrointestinal tracts of humans and animals and thanks to their capability to tolerate different environmental conditions and their high rates of gene transfer, they are able to colonize various ecological niches, as food matrices. Enterococcus faecalis bacteria are defined as controversial microorganisms. From one side they are used as food starters, bio-control agents and probiotics to improve human or animal health. From the other side, in the last two decades enterococci have emerged as important nosocomial pathogens, because bearing high-level of resistance to antibiotics and several putative virulence factors. In this study, the soluble proteome quantitation data (LC-MS/MS) of the food-isolated strain E. faecalis D27 (dairy-isolate) was compared with the soluble proteome quantitation data of the pathogenic E. faecalis UW3114 (urinary tract infection isolate) and with the one of the health promoting strain E. faecalis Symbioflor1, respectively. The comparison of cytosolic protein expression profiles highlighted statistically significant changes in the abundance of proteins mainly involved in specific metabolic pathways, nutrient transport, stress response, and cell wall modulation. Moreover, especially in the dairy isolate and the clinical isolate, several proteins with potential pathogenic implications were found, such as serine proteases, von Willebrand factor, serine hydrolase with beta lactamase activity, efflux transporter, and proteins involved in horizontal gene transfer. The analysis of the extracellular proteome provided interesting results concerning proteins involved in bacterial communication, such as pheromones and conjugative elements and also proteins able to interact with human components. The phenotypic characterization evaluating (i) biofilm formation (ii) hemolytic activity on blood agar plates (iii) protease activity (iv) gelatinase (v) antibiotic resistance pattern, enabled us to elucidate the risks associated with the poor characterized foodborne E. faecalis D27.
PXD010977	31159733	Temporal proteome dynamics of Clostridium cellulovorans cultured with major plant cell wall polysaccharides. 	Temporal proteome analysis of Clostridium cellulovorans	Clostridium cellulovorans, TMT labeling	BACKGROUND: Clostridium cellulovorans is a mesophilic, cellulosome-producing bacterium containing 57 genomic cellulosomal enzyme-encoding genes. In addition to cellulosomal proteins, C. cellulovorans also secretes non-cellulosomal proteins to degrade plant cell wall polysaccharides. Unlike other cellulosome-producing Clostridium species, C. cellulovorans can metabolize all major plant cell wall polysaccharides (cellulose, hemicelluloses, and pectins). In this study, we performed a temporal proteome analysis of C. cellulovorans to reveal strategies underlying plant cell wall polysaccharide degradation. RESULTS: We cultured C. cellulovorans with five different carbon sources (glucose, cellulose, xylan, galactomannan, and pectin) and performed proteome analysis on cellular and secreted proteins. In total, we identified 1895 cellular proteins and 875 secreted proteins. The identified unique carbohydrate-degrading enzymes corresponding to each carbon source were annotated to have specific activity against each carbon source. However, we identified pectate lyase as a unique enzyme in C. cellulovorans cultivated on xylan, which was not previously associated with xylan degradation. We performed k-means clustering analysis for elucidation of temporal changes of the cellular and secreted proteins in each carbon sources. We found that cellular proteins in most of the k-means clusters are involved in carbohydrate metabolism, amino acid metabolism, translation, or membrane transport. When xylan and pectin were used as the carbon sources, the most increasing k-means cluster contained proteins involved in the metabolism of cofactors and vitamins. In case of secreted proteins of C. cellulovorans cultured either on cellulose or xylan, galactomannan, and pectin, the clusters with the most increasing trend contained either 25 cellulosomal proteins and five non-cellulosomal proteins or 8-19 cellulosomal proteins and 9-16 non-cellulosomal proteins, respectively. These differences might reflect mechanisms for degrading cellulose of other carbon source. Co-abundance analysis of the secreted proteins revealed that proteases and protease inhibitors accumulated coordinately. This observation implies that the secreted protease inhibitors and proteases protect carbohydrate-degrading enzymes from an attack from the plant. CONCLUSION: In this study, we clarified, for the first time, the temporal proteome dynamics of cellular and secreted proteins in C. cellulovorans. This data will be valuable in understanding strategies employed by C. cellulovorans for degrading major plant cell wall polysaccharides.
PXD011576	31159882	Global serum proteomic changes in water buffaloes infected with Fasciola gigantica. 	Bufffalo serum iTRAQ -  Global serum proteomic changes in water buffaloes infected with Fasciola gigantica	Buffalo, iTRAQ, serum	BACKGROUND: The liver fluke Fasciola gigantica modulates several signaling pathways in infected buffaloes to facilitate its survival and establishment of persistent infection. In response to the parasite invasion, buffaloes activate innate and adaptive immune responses to counter the parasite infection. To detect new proteins that might be involved in the interaction between F. gigantica and the buffaloes, and that also might serve as biomarkers for fasciolosis, we used proteomic techniques to study the serum proteome of buffaloes during F. gigantica infection. Here, we used an isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based quantitative proteomic approach to identify serum proteins that are differentially expressed in infected buffaloes compared to uninfected control buffaloes. Additionally, we applied a parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assay to validate specific proteins identified by the iTRAQ method. RESULTS: A total of 313, 459 and 399 proteins were identified at 3, 42 and 70 days post-infection, respectively; of these 92, 93 and 138 were differentially abundant proteins. Some of the identified differentially abundant proteins, including complement factor H related 5, complement component C6, complement component C7, amine oxidase, plasma serine protease inhibitor and lysozyme, are known to be involved in complement system activation, blood coagulation, platelet activation, lymphocyte's adhesion and lysozyme hydrolysis. Analysis of data for all three time points after infection identified six significantly upregulated proteins in infected serum that separated infected and uninfected buffaloes into distinct clusters. Further PRM analysis confirmed the expression of five proteins, namely MHC class I antigen, Beta-2-microglobulin, NID2 protein, Fetuin-B and Fibrinogen gamma-B chain. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide novel insights into the serum proteomics signature of buffaloes during F. gigantica infection.
PXD010467	31160380	Mesenchymal stromal cell activation by breast cancer secretomes in bioengineered 3D microenvironments. 	Integrative analysis of mesenchymal stromal cell conversion by breast cancer secretomes in blank slate 3D microenvironments	ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), secretome	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are key contributors of the tumour microenvironment and are known to promote cancer progression through reciprocal communication with cancer cells, but how they become activated is not fully understood. Here, we investigate how breast cancer cells from different stages of the metastatic cascade convert MSCs into tumour-associated MSCs (TA-MSCs) using unbiased, global approaches. Using mass spectrometry, we compared the secretomes of MCF-7 cells, invasive MDA-MB-231 cells, and sublines isolated from bone, lung, and brain metastases and identified ECM and exosome components associated with invasion and organ-specific metastasis. Next, we used synthetic hydrogels to investigate how these different secretomes activate MSCs in bioengineered 3D microenvironments. Using kinase activity profiling and RNA sequencing, we found that only MDA-MB-231 breast cancer secretomes convert MSCs into TA-MSCs, resulting in an immunomodulatory phenotype that was particularly prominent in response to bone-tropic cancer cells. We have investigated paracrine signalling from breast cancer cells to TA-MSCs in 3D, which may highlight new potential targets for anticancer therapy approaches aimed at targeting tumour stroma.
PXD011872	31160890	Elucidating the endogenous synovial fluid proteome and peptidome of inflammatory arthritis using label-free mass spectrometry. 	Human Arthritic Synovial Fluid LC-MS/MS	Arthritis, Synovial fluid	BACKGROUND: Inflammatory arthritis (IA) is an immunological disorder in which loss of immune tolerance to endogenous self-antigens perpetuates synovitis and eventual destruction of the underlying cartilage and bone. Pathological changes in the joint are expected to be represented by synovial fluid (SF) proteins and peptides. In the present study, a mass spectrometry-based approach was utilized for the identification of key protein and peptide mediators of IA. METHODS: Age-matched SF samples from 10 rheumatoid arthritis patients, 10 psoriatic arthritis patients and 10 cadaveric controls were subjected to an integrated proteomic and peptidomic protocol using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Significant differentially abundant proteins and peptides were identified between cohorts according to the results of a Mann-Whitney U test coupled to the Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple hypothesis testing. Fold change ratios were computed for each protein and peptide according to their log-transformed extracted ion current. Pathway analysis and antimicrobial peptide (AMP) prediction were conducted to clarify the pathophysiological relevance of identified proteins and peptides to IA. RESULTS: We determined that 144 proteins showed significant differential abundance between the IA and control SF proteomes, of which 11 protein candidates were selected for future follow-up studies. Similar analyses applied to our peptidomic data identified 15 peptide sequences, originating from 4 protein precursors, to have significant differential abundance in IA compared to the control SF peptidome. Pathway enrichment analysis of the IA SF peptidome along with AMP prediction suggests a possible mechanistic role of microbes in eliciting an immune response which drives the development of IA. CONCLUSIONS: The discovery-phase data generated herein has provided a basis for the identification of candidates with the greatest potential to serve as novel serum biomarkers specific to inflammatory arthritides. Moreover, these findings facilitate the understanding of possible disease mechanisms specific to each subtype.
PXD012532	31163575	Omics Studies Revealed the Factors Involved in the Formation of Colony Boundary in Myxococcus xanthus. 	Analysis of M.xanthus boundary by nano-LC-MS/MS	Boundary, M.xanthus, proteomcis	Two unrecognizable strains of the same bacterial species form a distinct colony boundary. During growth as colonies, Myxococcus xanthus uses multiple factors to establish cooperation between recognized strains and prevent interactions with unrecognized strains of the same species. Here, DeltaMXAN_0049 is a mutant strain deficient in immunity for the paired nuclease gene, MXAN_0050, that has a function in the colony-merger incompatibility of Myxococcus xanthus DK1622. With the aim to investigate the factors involved in boundary formation, a proteome and metabolome study was employed. Visualization of the boundary between DK1622 and DeltaMXAN_0049 was done scanning electron microscope (SEM), which displayed the presence of many damaged cells in the boundary. Proteome analysis of the DK1622- boundary disclosed many possible proteins, such as cold shock proteins, cell shape-determining protein MreC, along with a few pathways, such as RNA degradation, phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan biosynthesis, and Type VI secretion system (T6SS), which may play major roles in the boundary formation. Metabolomics studies revealed various secondary metabolites that were significantly produced during boundary formation. Overall, the results concluded that multiple factors participated in the boundary formation in M. xanthus, leading to cellular damage that is helpful in solving the mystery of the boundary formation mechanism.
PXD010305	31164053	Francisella tularensis: FupA mutation contributes to fluoroquinolone resistance by increasing vesicle secretion and biofilm formation. 	Characterization of F. tularensis LVS outer membrane vesicles	Francisella tularensis, OMVs, fluoroquinolone, tolerance	Francisella tularensis is the causative agent in tularemia for which the high prevalence of treatment failure and relapse is a major concern. Directed-evolution experiments revealed that acquisition of fluoroquinolone (FQ) resistance was linked to factors in addition to mutations in DNA gyrase. Here, using F. tularensis live vaccine strain (LVS) as a model, we demonstrated that FupA/B (Fer-Utilization Protein) expression is linked to FQ susceptibility, and that the virulent strain F. tularensis subsp. tularensis SCHU S4 deleted for the homologous FupA protein exhibited even higher FQ resistance. In addition to an increased FQ minimal inhibitory concentration, LVSDeltafupA/B displayed tolerance toward bactericidal compounds including ciprofloxacin and gentamicin. Interestingly, the FupA/B deletion was found to promote increased secretion of outer membrane vesicles (OMVs). Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic characterization of vesicles from LVS and LVSincrementfupA/B identified 801 proteins, including a subset of 23 proteins exhibiting differential abundance between both strains which may therefore contribute to the reduced antibiotic susceptibility of the FupA/B-deleted strain. We also demonstrated that OMVs are key structural elements of LVSDeltafupA/B biofilms providing protection against FQ. These results provide a new basis for understanding and tackling antibiotic resistance and/or persistence of Francisella and other pathogenic members of the Thiotrichales class.
PXD012438	31164462	Stress-Induced Changes in the Lipid Microenvironment of beta-(1,3)-d-Glucan Synthase Cause Clinically Important Echinocandin Resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus. 	Stress-induced changes in the lipid microenvironment of beta-(1,3)-D-glucan synthase cause clinically important echinocandin resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus fumigatus, Caspofungin, Echinocandin Resistance, posttranslational modifications	Aspergillus fumigatus is a leading cause of invasive fungal infections. Resistance to first-line triazole antifungals has led to therapy with echinocandin drugs. Recently, we identified several high-minimum-effective-concentration (MEC) A. fumigatus clinical isolates from patients failing echinocandin therapy. Echinocandin resistance is known to arise from amino acid substitutions in beta-(1,3)-d-glucan synthase encoded by the fks1 gene. Yet these clinical isolates did not contain mutations in fks1, indicating an undefined resistance mechanism. To explore this new mechanism, we used a laboratory-derived strain, RG101, with a nearly identical caspofungin (CAS) susceptibility phenotype that also does not contain fks1 mutations. Glucan synthase isolated from RG101 was fully sensitive to echinocandins. Yet exposure of RG101 to CAS during growth yielded a modified enzyme that was drug insensitive (4 log orders) in kinetic inhibition assays, and this insensitivity was also observed for enzymes isolated from clinical isolates. To understand this alteration, we analyzed whole-enzyme posttranslational modifications (PTMs) but found none linked to resistance. However, analysis of the lipid microenvironment of the enzyme with resistance induced by CAS revealed a prominent increase in the abundances of dihydrosphingosine (DhSph) and phytosphingosine (PhSph). Exogenous addition of DhSph and PhSph to the sensitive enzyme recapitulated the drug insensitivity of the CAS-derived enzyme. Further analysis demonstrated that CAS induces mitochondrion-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS) and that dampening ROS formation by antimycin A or thiourea eliminated drug-induced resistance. We conclude that CAS induces cellular stress, promoting formation of ROS and triggering an alteration in the composition of plasma membrane lipids surrounding glucan synthase, rendering it insensitive to echinocandins.IMPORTANCE Resistance to first-line triazole antifungal agents among Aspergillus species has prompted the use of second-line therapy with echinocandins. As the number of Aspergillus-infected patients treated with echinocandins is rising, clinical observations of drug resistance are also increasing, indicating an emerging global health threat. Our knowledge regarding the development of clinical echinocandin resistance is largely derived from Candida spp., while little is known about resistance in Aspergillus. Therefore, it is important to understand the specific cellular responses raised by A. fumigatus against echinocandins. We discovered a new mechanism of resistance in A. fumigatus that is independent of the well-characterized FKS mutation mechanism observed in Candida This study identified an off-target effect of CAS, i.e., ROS production, and integrated oxidative stress and sphingolipid alterations into a novel mechanism of resistance. This stress-induced response has implications for drug resistance and/or tolerance mechanisms in other fungal pathogens.
PXD012257	31165762	Cytoplasmic sequestration of the RhoA effector mDiaphanous1 by Prohibitin2 promotes muscle differentiation. 	Analysis of mDiaphanous1 (mDia1) interactome in adult mouse skeletal muscle C2C12 myoblasts and myotubes	C2C12, Co-immunoprecipitation, Myoblasts, Myotubes, mDiaphanous1	Muscle differentiation is controlled by adhesion and growth factor-dependent signalling through common effectors that regulate muscle-specific transcriptional programs. Here we report that mDiaphanous1, an effector of adhesion-dependent RhoA-signalling, negatively regulates myogenesis at the level of Myogenin expression. In myotubes, over-expression of mDia1DeltaN3, a RhoA-independent mutant, suppresses Myogenin promoter activity and expression. We investigated mDia1-interacting proteins that may counteract mDia1 to permit Myogenin expression and timely differentiation. Using yeast two-hybrid and mass-spectrometric analysis, we report that mDia1 has a stage-specific interactome, including Prohibitin2, MyoD, Akt2, and beta-Catenin, along with a number of proteosomal and mitochondrial components. Of these interacting partners, Prohibitin2 colocalises with mDia1 in cytoplasmic punctae in myotubes. We mapped the interacting domains of mDia1 and Phb2, and used interacting (mDia1DeltaN3/Phb2 FL or mDia1DeltaN3/Phb2-Carboxy) and non-interacting pairs (mDia1H + P/Phb2 FL or mDia1DeltaN3/Phb2-Amino) to dissect the functional consequences of this partnership on Myogenin promoter activity. Co-expression of full-length as well as mDia1-interacting domains of Prohibitin2 reverse the anti-myogenic effects of mDia1DeltaN3, while non-interacting regions do not. Our results suggest that Prohibitin2 sequesters mDia1, dampens its anti-myogenic activity and fine-tunes RhoA-mDia1 signalling to promote differentiation. Overall, we report that mDia1 is multi-functional signalling effector whose anti-myogenic activity is modulated by a differentiation-dependent interactome. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012257.
PXD013610	31166082	Resolving oxidative damage to methionine by an unexpected membrane-associated stereoselective reductase discovered using chiral fluorescent probes. 	Resolving oxidative damage to methionine by an unexpected membrane-associated stereoselective reductase discovered using chiral fluorescent probes	E.coli, methionine sulfoxide, oxidative damage	Nonenzymatic oxidative processes in living organisms are among the inevitable consequences of respiration and environmental conditions. These oxidative processes can lead to the formation of two stereoisomers (R and S) of methionine sulfoxide, and the redox balance between methionine and methionine sulfoxide in proteins has profound implications on their function. Methionine oxidation can be reverted enzymatically by methionine sulfoxide reductases (Msrs). The two enzyme classes known to fulfill this role are MsrA, reducing the (S)-isomer, and MsrB, reducing the (R)-isomer of methionine sulfoxide. They are strictly stereoselective and conserved throughout the tree of life. Under stress conditions such as stationary phase and nutrient starvation, Escherichia coli upregulates the expression of MsrA but a similar effect has not been described for MsrB, raising the conundrum of which pathway enables reduction of the (R)-isomer of methionine sulfoxide in these conditions. Using the recently developed chiral fluorescent probes Sulfox-1, we show that in stationary phase-stressed E. coli, MsrA does have a stereocomplementary activity reducing the (R)-isomer of methionine sulfoxide. However, this activity is not provided by MsrB as expected, but instead by the DMSO reductase complex DmsABC, widely conserved in bacteria. This finding reveals an unexpected diversity in the metabolic enzymes of redox regulation concerning methionine, which should be taken into account in any antibacterial strategies exploiting oxidative stress. DATABASE: The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD013610.
PXD013551	31166909	Transcriptome and excretory-secretory proteome of infective-stage larvae of the nematode Gnathostoma spinigerum reveal potential immunodiagnostic targets for development. 	Transcriptome and excretory-secretory proteome of infective-stage larvae of Gnathostoma spinigerum reveal potential immunodiagnostic targets for development Parasite	Excretory-secretory proteome, Gnathostoma spinigerum, Immunodiagnosis, Transcriptome	BACKGROUND: Gnathostoma spinigerum is a harmful parasitic nematode that causes severe morbidity and mortality in humans and animals. Effective drugs and vaccines and reliable diagnostic methods are needed to prevent and control the associated diseases; however, the lack of genome, transcriptome, and proteome databases remains a major limitation. In this study, transcriptomic and secretomic analyses of advanced third-stage larvae of G. spinigerum (aL3Gs) were performed using next-generation sequencing, bioinformatics, and proteomics. RESULTS: An analysis that incorporated transcriptome and bioinformatics data to predict excretory-secretory proteins (ESPs) classified 171 and 292 proteins into classical and non-classical secretory groups, respectively. Proteins with proteolytic (metalloprotease), cell signaling regulatory (i.e., kinases and phosphatase), and metabolic regulatory function (i.e., glucose and lipid metabolism) were significantly upregulated in the transcriptome and secretome. A two-dimensional (2D) immunomic analysis of aL3Gs-ESPs with G. spinigerum-infected human sera and related helminthiases suggested that the serine protease inhibitor (serpin) was a promising antigenic target for the further development of gnathostomiasis immunodiagnostic methods. CONCLUSIONS: The transcriptome and excretory-secretory proteome of aL3Gs can facilitate an understanding of the basic molecular biology of the parasite and identifying multiple associated factors, possibly promoting the discovery of novel drugs and vaccines. The 2D-immunomic analysis identified serpin, a protein secreted from aL3Gs, as an interesting candidate for immunodiagnosis that warrants immediate evaluation and validation.
PXD012849	31169923	Mass spectrometric characterization of the zein protein composition in maize flour extracts upon protein separation by SDS-PAGE and 2D gel electrophoresis. 	Characterization of the Zein Protein Composition in Maize Flour Extracts	2D gel electrophoresis, MALDI-MS, Maize, custom-built sequence data base, data base search, flour, peptide mass fingerprinting, zein proteins	Highly homogenous alpha zein protein was isolated from maize kernels in an environment-friendly process using 95% ethanol as solvent. Due to the polyploidy and genetic polymorphism of the plant source, the application of high resolution separation methods in conjunction with precise analytical methods, such as MALDI-TOF-MS, is required to accurately estimate homogeneity of products that contain natural zein protein. The alpha zein protein product revealed two main bands in SDS-PAGE analysis, one at 25 kDa and other at 20 kDa apparent molecular mass. Yet, high resolution 2DE revealed approximately five protein spot groups in each row, the first at ca. 25 kDa and the second at ca. 20 kDa. Peptide mass fingerprinting data of the proteins in the two dominant SDS-PAGE bands matched to 30 amino acid sequence entries out of 102 non-redundant data base entries. MALDI-TOF-MS peptide mapping of the proteins from all spots indicated the presence of only alpha zein proteins. The most prominent ion signals in the MALDI mass spectra of the protein mixture of the 25 kDa SDS gel band after in-gel digestion were found at m/z 1272.6 and m/z 2009.1, and the most prominent ion signals of the protein mixture of the 20 kDa band after in-gel digestion were recorded at m/z 1083.5 and m/z 1691.8. These ion signals have been found typical for alpha zein proteins and may serve as marker ion signals which upon chymotryptic digestion reliably indicate the presence of alpha zein protein in two hybrid corn products.
PXD013794	31170500	Proteomics characterization of extracellular vesicles sorted by flow cytometry reveals a disease-specific molecular cross-talk from cerebrospinal fluid and tears in multiple sclerosis. 	Proteomics characterization of extracellular vesicles sorted by flow cytometry reveals a disease-specific molecular cross-talk from cerebrospinal fluid and tears in multiple sclerosis	CSF, Extracellular Vesicles, FACS Sorting, Multiple Sclerosis., Tears	Several proteomics studies have been conducted to identify new cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in Multiple Sclerosis (MuS). However, the complexity of CSF and its invasive collection, limits its use. Therefore, the goal of biomarker research in MuS is to identify novel distinctive targets in CSF or in easily accessible biofluids. Tears represent an interesting matrix for this purpose, because (1) tears are related to the central nervous system (CNS) and (2) the CNS contains Extracellular Vesicles (EVs) derived from brain cells. These EVs are emerging new biomarkers associated to several neurological disorders. Here we applied an optimized flow cytometer for the identification and subtyping of EVs from CSF and tears. We found, for the first time, microglia-derived and neural-derived EVs in tears. The flow cytometer was used to sort and purify 10(6) EVs from untouched CSF and tears of MuS patients and healthy subjects. Purified EVs were analyzed with shotgun proteomics analysis, revealing that EVs from both CSF and tears of MuS patients conveyed similar proteins. Our data demonstrated a specific EVs-mediated molecular cross talk between CSF and tears, which opens the door to new diagnostic perspectives for MuS. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013794. SIGNIFICANCE: Proteomics characterization of released Extracellular Vesicles (EVs) in CSF and tears of Multiple Sclerosis patients represents a pioneering application that helped in recognizing information about the biologically relevant molecules. We found, for the first time, microglia-derived and neural-derived EVs in tears. Moreover, purified EVs revealed that both CSF and tears of Multiple Sclerosis patients conveyed similar proteins involved in inflammation, angiogenesis and immune response signalling. We think that our data will contribute to enhance knowledge in Multiple Sclerosis mechanisms and help in biomarker discovery. Moreover tears represent one of the most convenient body fluid for biomarker discovery in Multiple Sclerosis, since it is an high informative and easy accessible. The opportunity to export such a platform to a territory monitoring plan opens the door to new diagnostic perspectives for Multiple Sclerosis.
PXD012611	31170626	Inefficient Secretion of Anti-sigma Factor FlgM Inhibits Bacterial Motility at High Temperature. 	Inefficient secretion of anti-sigma factor FlgM inhibits bacterial motility at high temperature	Data-independent acquisition, E.coli, Motolity	Temperature is one of the key cues that enable microorganisms to adjust their physiology in response to environmental changes. Here we show that motility is the major cellular function of Escherichia coli that is differentially regulated between growth at normal host temperature of 37degreesC and the febrile temperature of 42degreesC. Expression of both class II and class III flagellar genes is reduced at 42degreesC because of lowered level of the upstream activator FlhD. Class III genes are additionally repressed because of the destabilization and malfunction of secretion apparatus at high temperature, which prevents secretion of the anti-sigma factor FlgM. This mechanism of repression apparently accelerates loss of motility at 42degreesC. We hypothesize that E. coli perceives high temperature as a sign of inflammation, downregulating flagella to escape detection by the immune system of the host. Secretion-dependent coupling of gene expression to the environmental temperature is likely common among many bacteria.
PXD012979	31171772	Diabetes causes marked inhibition of mitochondrial metabolism in pancreatic beta-cells. 	Diabetes causes marked inhibition of mitochondrial metabolism in pancreatic beta-cells	diabetes, islets, pancreas, beta-cells	Diabetes is a global health problem caused primarily by the inability of pancreatic beta-cells to secrete adequate levels of insulin. The molecular mechanisms underlying the progressive failure of beta-cells to respond to glucose in type-2 diabetes remain unresolved. Using a combination of transcriptomics and proteomics, we find significant dysregulation of major metabolic pathways in islets of diabetic betaV59M mice, a non-obese, eulipidaemic diabetes model. Multiple genes/proteins involved in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis are upregulated, whereas those involved in oxidative phosphorylation are downregulated. In isolated islets, glucose-induced increases in NADH and ATP are impaired and both oxidative and glycolytic glucose metabolism are reduced. INS-1 beta-cells cultured chronically at high glucose show similar changes in protein expression and reduced glucose-stimulated oxygen consumption: targeted metabolomics reveals impaired metabolism. These data indicate hyperglycaemia induces metabolic changes in beta-cells that markedly reduce mitochondrial metabolism and ATP synthesis. We propose this underlies the progressive failure of beta-cells in diabetes.
PXD011805	31171861	Mycobacterial phosphatase PstP regulates global serine threonine phosphorylation and cell division. 	Mycobacterium smegtatis phosphoproteomics LC-MS/MS	Mycobacterium smegmatis, actinobacteria, bacterial protein phosphatase, bacterial signal transduction, cell division, mycobacteria, phosphoproteomics	Protein phosphatase PstP is conserved throughout the Actinobacteria in a genetic locus related to cell wall synthesis and cell division. In many Actinobacteria it is the sole annotated serine threonine protein phosphatase to counter the activity of multiple serine threonine protein kinases. We used transcriptional knockdown, electron microscopy and comparative phosphoproteomics to investigate the putative dual functions of PstP as a specific regulator of cell division and as a global regulator of protein phosphorylation. Comparative phosphoproteomics in the early stages of PstP depletion showed hyperphosphorylation of protein kinases and their substrates, confirming PstP as a negative regulator of kinase activity and global serine and threonine phosphorylation. Analysis of the 838 phosphorylation sites that changed significantly, suggested that PstP may regulate diverse phosphoproteins, preferentially at phosphothreonine near acidic residues, near the protein termini, and within membrane associated proteins. Increased phosphorylation of the activation loop of protein kinase B (PknB) and of the essential PknB substrate CwlM offer possible explanations for the requirement for pstP for growth and for cell wall defects when PstP was depleted.
PXD012332	31171938	Proteome analysis of xylose metabolism in Rhodotorula toruloides during lipid production. 	Proteome analysis of xylose metabolism inRhodotorula toruloidesduring lipid production	Rhodotorula toruloides, lipid production, xylose	BACKGROUND: Rhodotorula toruloides is a promising platform organism for production of lipids from lignocellulosic substrates. Little is known about the metabolic aspects of lipid production from the lignocellolosic sugar xylose by oleaginous yeasts in general and R. toruloides in particular. This study presents the first proteome analysis of the metabolism of R. toruloides during conversion of xylose to lipids. RESULTS: Rhodotorula toruloides cultivated on either glucose or xylose was subjected to comparative analysis of its growth dynamics, lipid composition, fatty acid profiles and proteome. The maximum growth and sugar uptake rate of glucose-grown R. toruloides cells were almost twice that of xylose-grown cells. Cultivation on xylose medium resulted in a lower final biomass yield although final cellular lipid content was similar between glucose- and xylose-grown cells. Analysis of lipid classes revealed the presence of monoacylglycerol in the early exponential growth phase as well as a high proportion of free fatty acids. Carbon source-specific changes in lipid profiles were only observed at early exponential growth phase, where C18 fatty acids were more saturated in xylose-grown cells. Proteins involved in sugar transport, initial steps of xylose assimilation and NADPH regeneration were among the proteins whose levels increased the most in xylose-grown cells across all time points. The levels of enzymes involved in the mevalonate pathway, phospholipid biosynthesis and amino acids biosynthesis differed in response to carbon source. In addition, xylose-grown cells contained higher levels of enzymes involved in peroxisomal beta-oxidation and oxidative stress response compared to cells cultivated on glucose. CONCLUSIONS: The results obtained in the present study suggest that sugar import is the limiting step during xylose conversion by R. toruloides into lipids. NADPH appeared to be regenerated primarily through pentose phosphate pathway although it may also involve malic enzyme as well as alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases. Increases in enzyme levels of both fatty acid biosynthesis and beta-oxidation in xylose-grown cells was predicted to result in a futile cycle. The results presented here are valuable for the development of lipid production processes employing R. toruloides on xylose-containing substrates.
PXD011814	31173101	Transcriptome-wide analysis of pseudouridylation of mRNA and non-coding RNAs in Arabidopsis. 	Quantitative Analysis of Global Proteome in Arabidopsis thaliana	seedling	Pseudouridine (Psi) is widely distributed in mRNA and various non-coding RNAs in yeast and mammals, and the specificity of its distribution has been determined. However, knowledge about Psis in the RNAs of plants, particularly in mRNA, is lacking. In this study, we performed genome-wide pseudouridine-sequencing in Arabidopsis and for the first time identified hundreds of Psi sites in mRNA and multiple Psi sites in non-coding RNAs. Many predicted and novel Psi sites in rRNA and tRNA were detected. mRNA was extensively pseudouridylated, but with Psis being under-represented in 3'-untranslated regions and enriched at position 1 of triple codons. The phenylalanine codon UUC was the most frequently pseudouridylated site. Some Psis present in chloroplast 23S, 16S, and 4.5S rRNAs in wild-type Col-0 were absent in plants with a mutation of SVR1 (Suppressor of variegation 1), a chloroplast pseudouridine synthase gene. Many plastid ribosomal proteins and photosynthesis-related proteins were significantly reduced in svr1 relative to the wild-type, indicating the roles of SVR1 in chloroplast protein biosynthesis in Arabidopsis. Our results provide new insights into the occurrence of pseudouridine in Arabidopsis RNAs and the biological functions of SVR1, and will pave the way for further exploiting the mechanisms underlying Psi modifications in controlling gene expression and protein biosynthesis in plants.
PXD009664	31173436	Oxyfunctionalization of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs by filamentous-fungi. 	Proteome analysis of B. bassiana	Beauveria bassiana, NSAIDs, P450s	AIMS: We aimed to expand the microbial biocatalyst platform to generate essential oxyfunctionalized standards for pharmaceutical, toxicological and environmental research. In particular, we examined the production of oxyfunctionalized nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) by filamentous-fungi. METHODS AND RESULTS: Four NSAIDs; diclofenac, ibuprofen, naproxen and mefenamic acid were used as substrates for oxyfunctionalization in a biocatalytic process involving three filamentous-fungi strains; Beauveria bassiana, Clitocybe nebularis and Mucor hiemalis. Oxyfunctionalized metabolites that are major degradation intermediates formed by Cytochrome P450 monooxygenases in human metabolism were produced in isolated yields of up to 99% using 1 g l(-1) of substrate. In addition, a novel compound, 3',4'-dihydroxydiclofenac, was produced by B. bassiana. Proteomic analysis identified CYP548A5 that might be responsible for diclofenac oxyfunctionalization in B. bassiana. CONCLUSIONS: Efficient fungi catalysed oxyfunctionalization was achieved when using NSAIDs as substrates. High purities and isolated yields of the produced metabolites were achieved. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The lack of current efficient synthetic strategies for oxyfunctionalization of NSAIDs is a bottleneck to perform pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic and toxicological analysis for the pharmaceutical industry. Additionally, oxyfunctionalized derivatives are needed for tracking the fate and impact of such metabolites in the environment. Herein, we described a fungi catalysed process that surpasses previously reported strategies in terms of efficiency, to synthesize oxyfunctionalized NSAIDs.
PXD013164	31173681	Development of a Robust Ultrasonic-Based Sample Treatment To Unravel the Proteome of OCT-Embedded Solid Tumor Biopsies. 	Ultrasonic-based OCT-removal from solid tumor biopsies.	Chromophobe Renal Cell Carcinoma, Mass Spectrometry., OCT-embedded samples, Renal Oncocytoma, Sample treatment, Ultrasound energy	An effective three-step proteomics workflow is proposed to overcome the pitfalls caused by polymers present in optimum cutting temperature (OCT)-embedded tissue during its preparation for mass spectrometry analysis. First, the OCT-embedded tissue biopsies are cleaned using ethanol and water in a sequential series of ultrasonic washes in an ultrasound bath (35 kHz ultrasonic frequency, 100% ultrasonic amplitude, 2 min of ultrasonic duty time). Second, a fast ultrasonic-assisted extraction of proteins is done using an ultrasonic probe (30 kHz ultrasonic frequency, 50% ultrasonic amplitude, 2 min of ultrasonic duty time, 1 mm diameter tip). Third, a rapid ultrasonic digestion of complex proteomes is performed using a microplate horn assembly device (20 kHz ultrasonic frequency, 25% ultrasonic amplitude, 4 min of ultrasonic duty time). As a proof of concept, the new workflow was applied to human normal and tumor kidney biopsies including chromophobe renal cell carcinomas (chRCCs) and renal oncocytomas (ROs). A successful cluster of proteomics profiles was obtained comprising 511 and 172 unique proteins found in chRCC and RO samples, respectively. The new method provides high sample throughput and comprehensive protein recovery from OCT samples.
PXD012983	31175227	The TOR Pathway Plays Pleiotropic Roles in Growth and Stress Responses of the Fungal Pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans. 	Cryptococcus neoformans TOR1 phosphoproteomics	CnTOR1, Cryptococcus, phosphoproteomics	The target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is an evolutionarily conserved signal transduction system that governs a plethora of eukaryotic biological processes, but its role in Cryptococcus neoformans remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the TOR pathway by functionally characterizing two Tor-like kinases, Tor1 and Tlk1, in C. neoformans We successfully deleted TLK1, but not TOR1TLK1 deletion did not result in any evident in vitro phenotypes, suggesting that Tlk1 is dispensable for the growth of C. neoformans We demonstrated that Tor1, but not Tlk1, is essential and the target of rapamycin by constructing and analyzing conditionally regulated strains and sporulation analysis of heterozygous mutants in the diploid strain background. To further analyze the Tor1 function, we constructed constitutive TOR1 overexpression strains. Tor1 negatively regulated thermotolerance and the DNA damage response, which are two important virulence factors of C. neoformansTOR1 overexpression reduced Mpk1 phosphorylation, which is required for cell wall integrity and thermoresistance, and Rad53 phosphorylation, which governs the DNA damage response pathway. Tor1 is localized to the cytoplasm, but enriched in the vacuole membrane. Phosphoproteomics and transcriptomics revealed that Tor1 regulates a variety of biological processes, including metabolic processes, cytoskeleton organization, ribosome biogenesis, and stress response. TOR inhibition by rapamycin caused actin depolarization in a Tor1-dependent manner. Finally, screening rapamycin-sensitive and -resistant kinase and transcription factor mutants revealed that the TOR pathway may crosstalk with a number of stress signaling pathways. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that a single Tor1 kinase plays pleiotropic roles in C. neoformans.
PXD013309	31175280	APC/C(CDH1) synchronizes ribose-5-phosphate levels and DNA synthesis to cell cycle progression. 	Human Transketolase-like 1 protein TAP-LC-MS/MS in HeLa cells.	HeLa, TKTL1	Accumulation of nucleotide building blocks prior to and during S phase facilitates DNA duplication. Herein, we find that the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) synchronizes ribose-5-phosphate levels and DNA synthesis during the cell cycle. In late G1 and S phases, transketolase-like 1 (TKTL1) is overexpressed and forms stable TKTL1-transketolase heterodimers that accumulate ribose-5-phosphate. This accumulation occurs by asymmetric production of ribose-5-phosphate from the non-oxidative pentose phosphate pathway and prevention of ribose-5-phosphate removal by depleting transketolase homodimers. In the G2 and M phases after DNA synthesis, expression of the APC/C adaptor CDH1 allows APC/C(CDH1) to degrade D-box-containing TKTL1, abrogating ribose-5-phosphate accumulation by TKTL1. TKTL1-overexpressing cancer cells exhibit elevated ribose-5-phosphate levels. The low CDH1 or high TKTL1-induced accumulation of ribose-5-phosphate facilitates nucleotide and DNA synthesis as well as cell cycle progression in a ribose-5-phosphate-saturable manner. Here we reveal that the cell cycle control machinery regulates DNA synthesis by mediating ribose-5-phosphate sufficiency.
PXD012716	31179247	MnmE, a Central tRNA-Modifying GTPase, Is Essential for the Growth, Pathogenicity, and Arginine Metabolism of Streptococcus suis Serotype 2. 	streptococcus suis LC-MS/MS -  MnmE, a Central tRNA-Modifying GTPase, Is Essential for the Growth, Pathogenicity, and Arginine Metabolism of Streptococcus suis Serotype 2	MnmE, SS2, TMT	Streptococcus suis is an important pathogen in pigs and can also cause severe infections in humans. However, little is known about proteins associated with cell growth and pathogenicity of S. suis. In this study, a guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) MnmE homolog was identified in a Chinese isolate (SC19) that drives a tRNA modification reaction. A mnmE deletion strain (DeltamnmE) and a complementation strain (CDeltamnmE) were constructed to systematically decode the characteristics and functions of MnmE both in vitro and in vivo studies via proteomic analysis. Phenotypic analysis revealed that the DeltamnmE strain displayed deficient growth, attenuated pathogenicity, and perturbation of the arginine metabolic pathway mediated by the arginine deiminase system (ADS). Consistently, tandem mass tag -based quantitative proteomics analysis confirmed that 365 proteins were differentially expressed (174 up- and 191 down-regulated) between strains DeltamnmE and SC19. Many proteins associated with DNA replication, cell division, and virulence were down-regulated. Particularly, the core enzymes of the ADS were significantly down-regulated in strain DeltamnmE. These data also provide putative molecular mechanisms for MnmE in cell growth and survival in an acidic environment. Therefore, we propose that MnmE, by its function as a central tRNA-modifying GTPase, is essential for cell growth, pathogenicity, as well as arginine metabolism of S. suis.
PXD008869	31179464	Bismuth drugs tackle Porphyromonas gingivalis and attune cytokine response in human cells. 	LC MS/MS comparative proteomic analysis of Porphyromonas gingivalis treated with ranitidine bismuth citrate	LC MS/MS, LTQ, Porphyromonas gingivalis, ranitidine bismuth citrate	Periodontitis is the leading cause of severe tooth loss and edentulism in adults worldwide and is closely linked to systemic conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Porphyromonas gingivalis is the key pathogen in periodontitis. Herein, we provided the first evidence that bismuth drugs suppress P. gingivalis in its planktonic, biofilm, and intracellular states. In total, 42 bismuth-associated proteins were identified including its major virulent factors (e.g., gingipains, hemagglutinin HagA, and fimbriae). Bismuth perturbed its iron acquisition, disturbed the energy metabolism and virulence, and deactivated multiple key enzymes (e.g., superoxide dismutase and thioredoxins). Moreover, bismuth inhibited its biofilm formation and disrupted the 3-day matured biofilms. Notably, the internalized P. gingivalis in various human cells (e.g., human gingival epithelium progenitors, HGEPs) was oppressed by bismuth but not the commonly used antibiotic metronidazole. Importantly, bismuth drugs enabled the counteraction of immuno-inflammatory responses in different host cells perturbed by P. gingivalis. The production of IL-6 and IL-8 attenuated by P. gingivalis in both of native and IL-1beta-stimulated HGEPs was restored, while the bacterium-enhanced expression of IL-6, IL-1beta, and TNFalpha in THP-1 macrophages was alleviated. This proof-of-concept study brings prospects for the potential reposition of the routinely used anti-Helicobacter pylori bismuth drugs to better manage inflammatory diseases such as periodontitis and P. gingivalis-related complex systemic disorders.
PXD012888	31180221	Single-Shot Capillary Zone Electrophoresis-Tandem Mass Spectrometry Produces over 4400 Phosphopeptide Identifications from a 220 ng Sample. 	Single shot CZE-MS/MS for phosphoproteomics	Advanced Peak Determination Algorithm, CZE, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid, Phosphoproteomics	The dependence of capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) separations on the charge state of the analyte is useful for the analysis of many post-translational modifications in proteins. In this work, we coupled CZE to an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid platform with an advanced peak determination algorithm for phosphoproteomics analysis. A linear-polyacrylamide-coated capillary with very low electroosmotic flow was used for the separation. The optimal injection volume was between 100 and 150 nL of a solution of phosphopeptides in 30 mM ammonium bicarbonate (pH 8.2) buffer, which produces a dynamic pH junction sample injection. Larger injection volumes resulted in serious peak broadening and decreased numbers of phosphopeptide identifications. The optimized system identified 4405 phosphopeptides from 220 ng of enriched phosphopeptides from mouse brain, which represents the state-of-the-art result for single-shot CZE-ESI-MS/MS-based phosphoproteome analysis. We found that the migration time for phosphopeptides is much longer than that for non-phosphopeptides and increased along with the number of phosphorylation sites on the peptides, as expected for the additional negative charges associated with the phosphate groups. We also investigated the phosphorylation site motifs; a number of motifs appeared in the CZE-ESI-MS/MS data but not in LC-ESI-MS/MS data, which suggested the complementary performance of the techniques. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012888.
PXD011937	31180492	Proteomic characterization of chromosomal common fragile site (CFS)-associated proteins uncovers ATRX as a regulator of CFS stability. 	Proteomics characterization of Chromosomal Common Fragile Site (CFS) - associated proteins uncovers ATRX as a regulator of CFS stability	ATRX, Common fragile sites, HeLa, interactome	Common fragile sites (CFSs) are conserved genomic regions prone to break under conditions of replication stress (RS). Thus, CFSs are hotspots for rearrangements in cancer and contribute to its chromosomal instability. Here, we have performed a global analysis of proteins that recruit to CFSs upon mild RS to identify novel players in CFS stability. To this end, we performed Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP) of FANCD2, a protein that localizes specifically to CFSs in G2/M, coupled to mass spectrometry to acquire a CFS interactome. Our strategy was validated by the enrichment of many known regulators of CFS maintenance, including Fanconi Anemia, DNA repair and replication proteins. Among the proteins identified with unknown functions at CFSs was the chromatin remodeler ATRX. Here we demonstrate that ATRX forms foci at a fraction of CFSs upon RS, and that ATRX depletion increases the occurrence of chromosomal breaks, a phenotype further exacerbated under mild RS conditions. Accordingly, ATRX depletion increases the number of 53BP1 bodies and micronuclei, overall indicating that ATRX is required for CFS stability. Overall, our study provides the first proteomic characterization of CFSs as a valuable resource for the identification of novel regulators of CFS stability.
PXD012246	31182439	Functional Insights Into Protein Acetylation in the Hyperthermophilic Archaeon Sulfolobus islandicus. 	Functional insights into protein acetylation in the hyperthermophilic archaeon Sulfolobus islandicus	Gene deletion, Mutant phenotype, N-terminal acetyltransferase, Protein acetylome, Protein lysine acetyltransferase, Quantitative proteomics	Proteins undergo acetylation at the Nepsilon-amino group of lysine residues and the Nalpha-amino group of the N terminus in Archaea as in Bacteria and Eukarya. However, the extent, pattern and roles of the modifications in Archaea remain poorly understood. Here we report the proteomic analyses of a wild-type Sulfolobus islandicus strain and its mutant derivative strains lacking either a homolog of the protein acetyltransferase Pat (DeltaSisPat) or a homolog of the Nt-acetyltransferase Ard1 (DeltaSisArd1). A total of 1708 Nepsilon-acetylated lysine residues in 684 proteins (26% of the total proteins), and 158 Nt-acetylated proteins (44% of the identified proteins) were found in S. islandicus DeltaSisArd1 grew more slowly than the parental strain, whereas DeltaSisPat showed no significant growth defects. Only 24 out of the 1503 quantifiable Nepsilon-acetylated lysine residues were differentially acetylated, and all but one of the 24 residues were less acetylated by >1.3 fold in DeltaSisPat than in the parental strain, indicating the narrow substrate specificity of the enzyme. Six acyl-CoA synthetases were the preferred substrates of SisPat in vivo, suggesting that Nepsilon-acetylation by the acetyltransferase is involved in maintaining metabolic balance in the cell. Acetylation of acyl-CoA synthetases by SisPat occurred at a sequence motif conserved among all three domains of life. On the other hand, 92% of the acetylated N termini identified were acetylated by SisArd1 in the cell. The enzyme exhibited broad substrate specificity and could modify nearly all types of the target N termini of human NatA-NatF. The deletion of the SisArd1 gene altered the cellular levels of 18% of the quantifiable proteins (1518) by >1.5 fold. Consistent with the growth phenotype of DeltaSisArd1, the cellular levels of proteins involved in cell division and cell cycle control, DNA replication, and purine synthesis were significantly lowered in the mutant than those in the parental strain.
PXD012137	31182712	Rif1 S-acylation mediates DNA double-strand break repair at the inner nuclear membrane. 	Rif1 S-acylation mediates DNA double-strand break repair at the inner nuclear membrane	DNA double-strand break repair, Rif1 S-acylation, non-homologous end-joining, palmitoylation	Rif1 is involved in telomere homeostasis, DNA replication timing, and DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair pathway choice from yeast to human. The molecular mechanisms that enable Rif1 to fulfill its diverse roles remain to be determined. Here, we demonstrate that Rif1 is S-acylated within its conserved N-terminal domain at cysteine residues C466 and C473 by the DHHC family palmitoyl acyltransferase Pfa4. Rif1 S-acylation facilitates the accumulation of Rif1 at DSBs, the attenuation of DNA end-resection, and DSB repair by non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ). These findings identify S-acylation as a posttranslational modification regulating DNA repair. S-acylated Rif1 mounts a localized DNA-damage response proximal to the inner nuclear membrane, revealing a mechanism of compartmentalized DSB repair pathway choice by sequestration of a fatty acylated repair factor at the inner nuclear membrane.
PXD012106	31182796	Two intracellular and cell type-specific bacterial symbionts in the placozoan Trichoplax H2. 	The Trichoplax H2 holobiont: a simple animal and its two intracellular symbionts	Grellia incantans, Margulisbacteria, Midichloriaceae, Placozoa, Rickettsiales, Ruthmannia eludens, Trichoplax H2, intracellular symbiosis, rough endoplasmic reticulum	Placozoa is an enigmatic phylum of simple, microscopic, marine metazoans(1,2). Although intracellular bacteria have been found in all members of this phylum, almost nothing is known about their identity, location and interactions with their host(3-6). We used metagenomic and metatranscriptomic sequencing of single host individuals, plus metaproteomic and imaging analyses, to show that the placozoan Trichoplax sp. H2 lives in symbiosis with two intracellular bacteria. One symbiont forms an undescribed genus in the Midichloriaceae (Rickettsiales)(7,8) and has a genomic repertoire similar to that of rickettsial parasites(9,10), but does not seem to express key genes for energy parasitism. Correlative image analyses and three-dimensional electron tomography revealed that this symbiont resides in the rough endoplasmic reticulum of its host's internal fibre cells. The second symbiont belongs to the Margulisbacteria, a phylum without cultured representatives and not known to form intracellular associations(11-13). This symbiont lives in the ventral epithelial cells of Trichoplax, probably metabolizes algal lipids digested by its host and has the capacity to supplement the placozoan's nutrition. Our study shows that one of the simplest animals has evolved highly specific and intimate associations with symbiotic, intracellular bacteria and highlights that symbioses can provide access to otherwise elusive microbial dark matter.
PXD013737	31185456	Multiomics Analyses of HNF4alpha Protein Domain Function during Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Differentiation. 	Total cellular proteome analysis of mutant and WT HNF4alpha Hepatic Progenitor Stage Cells	Embryonic Stem Cells, HNF4alpha, Hepatic Progenitor, SUMO	During mammalian development, liver differentiation is driven by signals that converge on multiple transcription factor networks. The hepatocyte nuclear factor signaling network is known to be essential for hepatocyte specification and maintenance. In this study, we have generated deletion and point mutants of hepatocyte nuclear factor-4alpha (HNF4alpha) to precisely evaluate the function of protein domains during hepatocyte specification from human pluripotent stem cells. We demonstrate that nuclear HNF4alpha is essential for hepatic progenitor specification, and the introduction of point mutations in HNF4alpha's Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO) consensus motif leads to disrupted hepatocyte differentiation. Taking a multiomics approach, we identified key deficiencies in cell biology, which included dysfunctional metabolism, substrate adhesion, tricarboxylic acid cycle flux, microRNA transport, and mRNA processing. In summary, the combination of genome editing and multiomics analyses has provided valuable insight into the diverse functions of HNF4alpha during pluripotent stem cell entry into the hepatic lineage and during hepatocellular differentiation.
PXD013177	31186289	Posttranslational Modifications Drive Protein Stability to Control the Dynamic Beer Brewing Proteome. 	Micro-mash brewing SWATH-MS proteomics	Beer, Brewing, Mashing, SWATH-MS	Mashing is a key step in beer brewing in which starch and proteins are solubilized from malted barley in a hot water extraction and digested to oligomaltose and free amino nitrogen. We used SWATH-MS to measure the abundance and site-specific modifications of proteins throughout a small-scale pale ale mash. Proteins extracted from the malt at low temperatures early in the mash decreased precipitously in abundance at higher temperatures late in the mash due to temperature/time-induced unfolding and aggregation. We validated these observations using experimental manipulation of time and temperature parameters in a microscale pale ale mash. Correlation analysis of temperature/time-dependent abundance showed that sequence and structure were the main features that controlled protein abundance profiles. Partial proteolysis by barley proteases was common early in the mash. The resulting proteolytically clipped proteins were particularly sensitive and were preferentially lost at high temperatures late in the mash, while intact proteins remained soluble. The beer brewing proteome is therefore driven by the interplay between protein solubilization and proteolysis, which are in turn determined by barley variety, growth conditions, and brewing process parameters.
PXD009242	31186336	Proteomic Profiling, Transcription Factor Modeling, and Genomics of Evolved Tolerant Strains Elucidate Mechanisms of Vanillin Toxicity in Escherichia coli. 	Comprehensive analysis of vanillin toxicity in Escherichia coli identifies targets for engineering improved biovanillin production	Aldehyde, Escherichia coli, citrate synthase, copper, stress response	Vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde) is an economically important flavor compound that can be made in bacterial cell factories, but toxicity is a major problem for cells producing this aromatic aldehyde. Using (i) a global proteomic analysis supported by multiple physiological experiments, mutant analyses, and inferred transcription factor modeling and (ii) adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) of vanillin tolerance combined with genome-wide analysis of the underlying mutations, mechanisms of vanillin toxicity in Escherichia coli have been elucidated. We identified 147 proteins that exhibited a significant change in abundance in response to vanillin, giving the first detailed insight into the cellular response to this aldehyde. Vanillin caused accumulation of reactive oxygen species invoking adaptations coordinated by a MarA, OxyR, and SoxS regulatory network and increased RpoS/DksA-dependent gene expression. Differential fumarase C upregulation was found to prevent oxidative damage to FumA and FumB during growth with vanillin. Surprisingly, vanillin-dependent reduction pf copper (II) to copper (I) led to upregulation of the copA gene and growth in the presence of vanillin was shown to be hypersensitive to inhibition by copper ions. AcrD and AaeAB were identified as potential vanillin efflux systems. Vanillin-tolerant strains isolated by ALE had distinct nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in gltA that led to increased citrate synthase activity. Strain-specific mutations in cpdA, rob, and marC were also present. One strain had a large (~10-kb) deletion that included the marRAB region. Our data provide new understanding of bacterial vanillin toxicity and identify novel gene targets for future engineering of vanillin-tolerant strains of E. coli IMPORTANCE A particular problem for the biotechnological production of many of the valuable chemicals that we are now able to manufacture in bacterial cells is that these products often poison the cells producing them. Solutions to improve product yields or alleviate such toxicity using the techniques of modern molecular biology first require a detailed understanding of the mechanisms of product toxicity. Here we have studied the economically important flavor compound vanillin, an aromatic aldehyde that exerts significant toxic effects on bacterial cells. We used high-resolution protein abundance analysis as a starting point to determine which proteins are upregulated and which are downregulated by growth with vanillin, followed by gene expression and mutant studies to understand the mechanism of the response. In a second approach, we evolved bacterial strains with higher vanillin tolerance. Their genome sequences have yielded novel insights into vanillin tolerance that are complementary to the proteomics data set.
PXD013457	31186339	Multi-omics Signature of Candida auris, an Emerging and Multidrug-Resistant Pathogen. 	Candida albicans whole cell proteomics	C. auris, Candida albicans, drug resistance	Candida auris is a recently described pathogenic fungus that is causing invasive outbreaks on all continents. The fungus is of high concern given the numbers of multidrug-resistant strains that have been isolated in distinct sites across the globe. The fact that its diagnosis is still problematic suggests that the spreading of the pathogen remains underestimated. Notably, the molecular mechanisms of virulence and antifungal resistance employed by this new species are largely unknown. In the present work, we compared two clinical isolates of C. auris with distinct drug susceptibility profiles and a Candida albicans reference strain using a multi-omics approach. Our results show that, despite the distinct drug resistance profile, both C. auris isolates appear to be very similar, albeit with a few notable differences. However, compared to C. albicans both C. auris isolates have major differences regarding their carbon utilization and downstream lipid and protein content, suggesting a multifactorial mechanism of drug resistance. The molecular profile displayed by C. auris helps to explain the antifungal resistance and virulence phenotypes of this new emerging pathogen.IMPORTANCE Candida auris was first described in Japan in 2009 and has now been the cause of significant outbreaks across the globe. The high number of isolates that are resistant to one or more antifungals, as well as the high mortality rates from patients with bloodstream infections, has attracted the attention of the medical mycology, infectious disease, and public health communities to this pathogenic fungus. In the current work, we performed a broad multi-omics approach on two clinical isolates isolated in New York, the most affected area in the United States and found that the omic profile of C. auris differs significantly from C. albicans In addition to our insights into C. auris carbon utilization and lipid and protein content, we believe that the availability of these data will enhance our ability to combat this rapidly emerging pathogenic yeast.
PXD012610	31187215	miR-17-92 and miR-106b-25 clusters regulate beta cell mitotic checkpoint and insulin secretion in mice. 	miR-17-92/106b regulate beta cell mitotic checkpoint and insulin secretion	miR-17-92/106b	AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Adult beta cells in the pancreas are the sole source of insulin in the body. Beta cell loss or increased demand for insulin impose metabolic challenges because adult beta cells are generally quiescent and infrequently re-enter the cell division cycle. The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that a family of proto-oncogene microRNAs that includes miR-17-92 and miR-106b-25 clusters regulates beta cell proliferation or function in the adult endocrine pancreas. METHODS: To elucidate the role of miR-17-92 and miR-106b-25 clusters in beta cells, we used a conditional miR-17-92/miR-106b-25 knockout mouse model. We employed metabolic assays in vivo and ex vivo, together with advanced microscopy of pancreatic sections, bioinformatics, mass spectrometry and next generation sequencing, to examine potential targets of miR-17-92/miR-106b-25, by which they might regulate beta cell proliferation and function. RESULTS: We demonstrate that miR-17-92/miR-106b-25 regulate the adult beta cell mitotic checkpoint and that miR-17-92/miR-106b-25 deficiency results in reduction in beta cell mass in vivo. Furthermore, we reveal a critical role for miR-17-92/miR-106b-25 in glucose homeostasis and in controlling insulin secretion. We identify protein kinase A as a new relevant molecular pathway downstream of miR-17-92/miR-106b-25 in control of adult beta cell division and glucose homeostasis. CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: The study contributes to the understanding of proto-oncogene miRNAs in the normal, untransformed endocrine pancreas and illustrates new genetic means for regulation of beta cell mitosis and function by non-coding RNAs. DATA AVAILABILITY: Sequencing data that support the findings of this study have been deposited in GEO with the accession code GSE126516.
PXD007136	31189097	The RNA-Binding Protein YBX3 Controls Amino Acid Levels by Regulating SLC mRNA Abundance. 	YBX3 controls amino acid import via post-transcriptional regulation of Solute Carrier mRNAs	nascent proteome, pSILAC	Sufficient amino acid supplies are critical for protein synthesis and, thus, cell growth and proliferation. Specialized transporters mediate amino acid exchange across membranes and their regulation is critical for amino acid homeostasis. Here, we report that the DNA- and RNA-binding protein YBX3 regulates the expression of amino acid transporters. To investigate the functions of YBX3, we integrated proteomic and transcriptomic data from cells depleted of YBX3 with analyses of YBX3 RNA binding sites to identify RNAs directly regulated by YBX3. The data implicate YBX3 as a RNA-binding protein that regulates distinct sets of mRNAs by discrete mechanisms, including mRNA abundance. Among direct YBX3 targets, two solute carrier (SLC) amino acid transporters (SLC7A5 and SLC3A2) were identified. We show that YBX3 stabilizes these SLC mRNAs and that YBX3 depletion diminishes the expression of SLC7A5/SLC3A2, which specifically reduces SLC7A5/SLC3A2 amino acid substrates. Thus, YBX3 emerges as a key regulator of amino acid levels.
PXD010680	31189116	Tumor Heterogeneity Underlies Differential Cisplatin Sensitivity in Mouse Models of Small-Cell Lung Cancer. 	Tumor heterogeneity underlies differential cisplatin sensitivity in mouse models of small cell lung cancer	SCLC, cisplatin, label-free, small-cell lung cancer, tumor	Small-cell lung cancer is the most aggressive type of lung cancer, characterized by a remarkable response to chemotherapy followed by development of resistance. Here, we describe SCLC subtypes in Mycl- and Nfib-driven GEMM that include CDH1-high peripheral primary tumor lesions and CDH1-negative, aggressive intrapulmonary metastases. Cisplatin treatment preferentially eliminates the latter, thus revealing a striking differential response. Using a combined transcriptomic and proteomic approach, we find a marked reduction in proliferation and metabolic rewiring following cisplatin treatment and present evidence for a distinctive metabolic and structural profile defining intrinsically resistant populations. This offers perspectives for effective combination therapies that might also hold promise for treating human SCLC, given the very similar response of both mouse and human SCLC to cisplatin.
PXD012872	31189351	Detecting single amino acids and small peptides by combining isobaric tags and peptidomics. 	Detecting single amino acids and small peptides  by combining isobaric tags and peptidomics	Cerebrospinal fluid, Peptidomics, TMT, isobaric peptidomics, tandem mass tag	Single amino acids and small endogenous peptides play important roles in maintaining a properly functioning organism. These molecules are however currently only routinely identified in targeted approaches. In a small proof-of-concept mass spectrometry experiment, we found that by combining isobaric tags and peptidomics, and by targeting singly charged molecules, we were able to identify a significant amount of single amino acids and small endogenous peptides using a basic mass-based identification approach. While there is still room for improvement, our simple test indicates that a limited amount of extra work when setting up the mass spectrometry experiment could potentially lead to a wealth of additional information.
PXD010694	31189591	beta-Actin mRNA interactome mapping by proximity biotinylation. 	beta-actin RNA-BioID             .	BioID, RBPs, RNA localization	The molecular function and fate of mRNAs are controlled by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Identification of the interacting proteome of a specific mRNA in vivo remains very challenging, however. Based on the widely used technique of RNA tagging with MS2 aptamers for RNA visualization, we developed a RNA proximity biotinylation (RNA-BioID) technique by tethering biotin ligase (BirA*) via MS2 coat protein at the 3' UTR of endogenous MS2-tagged beta-actin mRNA in mouse embryonic fibroblasts. We demonstrate the dynamics of the beta-actin mRNA interactome by characterizing its changes on serum-induced localization of the mRNA. Apart from the previously known interactors, we identified more than 60 additional beta-actin-associated RBPs by RNA-BioID. Among these, the KH domain-containing protein FUBP3/MARTA2 has been shown to be required for beta-actin mRNA localization. We found that FUBP3 binds to the 3' UTR of beta-actin mRNA and is essential for beta-actin mRNA localization, but does not interact with the characterized beta-actin zipcode element. RNA-BioID provides a tool for identifying new mRNA interactors and studying the dynamic view of the interacting proteome of endogenous mRNAs in space and time.
PXD013503	31189691	Phosphoproteome Analysis Reveals Estrogen-ER Pathway as a Modulator of mTOR Activity Via DEPTOR. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of estrogen signaling upstream and downstream of mTORC1	MCF7, Phosphoproteomics, cancer, estrogen signaling	ER-positive breast tumors represent ~70% of all breast cancer cases. Although their treatment with endocrine therapies is effective in the adjuvant or recurrent settings, the development of resistance compromises their effectiveness. The binding of estrogen to ERalpha, a transcription factor, triggers the regulation of the target genes (genomic pathway). Additionally, a cytoplasmic fraction of estrogen-bound ERalpha activates oncogenic signaling pathways such as PI3K/AKT/mTOR (nongenomic pathway). The upregulation of the estrogenic and the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathways are frequently associated with a poor outcome. To better characterize the connection between these two pathways, we performed a phosphoproteome analysis of ER-positive MCF7 breast cancer cells treated with estrogen or estrogen and the mTORC1 inhibitor rapamycin. Many proteins were identified as estrogen-regulated mTORC1 targets and among them, DEPTOR was selected for further characterization. DEPTOR binds to mTOR and inhibits the kinase activity of both mTOR complexes mTORC1 and mTORC2, but mitogen-activated mTOR promotes phosphorylation-mediated DEPTOR degradation. Although estrogen enhances the phosphorylation of DEPTOR by mTORC1, DEPTOR levels increase in estrogen-stimulated cells. We demonstrated that DEPTOR accumulation is the result of estrogen-ERalpha-mediated transcriptional upregulation of DEPTOR expression. Consequently, the elevated levels of DEPTOR partially counterbalance the estrogen-induced activation of mTORC1 and mTORC2. These results underscore the critical role of estrogen-ERalpha as a modulator of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway in ER-positive breast cancer cells. Additionally, these studies provide evidence supporting the use of dual PI3K/mTOR or dual mTORC1/2 inhibitors in combination with endocrine therapies as a first-line treatment option for the patients with ER-positive advanced breast cancer.
PXD013476	31189925	Hsp90 middle domain phosphorylation initiates a complex conformational program to recruit the ATPase-stimulating cochaperone Aha1. 	Effects of a phosphomimetic mutation and nucleotide binding on the interaction of Hsp90a with co-chaperone Aha1 analyzed by chemical cross-linking with mass spectrometry	Aha1, Hsp90, PTM, XL-MS, chaperone, cross-linking, heat shock, phosphorylation	Complex conformational dynamics are essential for function of the dimeric molecular chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90), including transient, ATP-biased N-domain dimerization that is necessary to attain ATPase competence. The intrinsic, but weak, ATP hydrolyzing activity of human Hsp90 is markedly enhanced by the co-chaperone Aha1. However, the cellular concentration of Aha1 is substoichiometric relative to Hsp90. Here we report that initial recruitment of this cochaperone to Hsp90 is markedly enhanced by phosphorylation of a highly conserved tyrosine (Y313 in Hsp90alpha) in the Hsp90 middle domain. Importantly, phosphomimetic mutation of Y313 promotes formation of a transient complex in which both N- and C-domains of Aha1 bind to distinct surfaces of the middle domains of opposing Hsp90 protomers prior to ATP-directed N-domain dimerization. Thus, Y313 represents a phosphorylation-sensitive conformational switch, engaged early after client loading, that affects both local and long-range conformational dynamics to facilitate initial recruitment of Aha1 to Hsp90.
PXD013440	31190665	Characterization of a novel glycosylated glutathione transferase of Onchocerca ochengi, closest relative of the human river blindness parasite. 	Characterisation of a novel glycosylated glutathione transferase of Onchocerca ochengi, closest relative of the human river blindness parasite	GSTs, Immune modulation, Onchocerca, detoxification, glycans, glycosylation, prostaglandin synthase	Filarial nematodes possess glutathione transferases (GSTs), ubiquitous enzymes with the potential to detoxify xenobiotic and endogenous substrates, and modulate the host immune system, which may aid worm infection establishment, maintenance and survival in the host. Here we have identified and characterized a sigma class glycosylated GST (OoGST1), from the cattle-infective filarial nematode Onchocerca ochengi, which is homologous (99% amino acid identity) with an immunodominant GST and potential vaccine candidate from the human parasite, O. volvulus, (OvGST1b). Onchocerca ochengi native GSTs were purified using a two-step affinity chromatography approach, resolved by 2D and 1D SDS-PAGE and subjected to enzymic deglycosylation revealing the existence of at least four glycoforms. A combination of lectin-blotting and mass spectrometry (MS) analyses of the released N-glycans indicated that OoGST1 contained mainly oligomannose Man5GlcNAc2 structure, but also hybrid- and larger oligommanose-type glycans in a lower proportion. Furthermore, purified OoGST1 showed prostaglandin synthase activity as confirmed by Liquid Chromatography (LC)/MS following a coupled-enzyme assay. This is only the second reported and characterized glycosylated GST and our study highlights its potential role in host-parasite interactions and use in the study of human onchocerciasis.
PXD011992	31191477	Identification of Proteins and Genes Expressed by Methylophaga thiooxydans During Growth on Dimethylsulfide and Their Presence in Other Members of the Genus. 	Proteomics and transcriptomics analyses of Methylophaga thiooxydans reveal adaptations for growth on dimethylsulfide in a marine model organism	Methylophaga thiooxydans, dimethylsulfide	Dimethylsulfide is a volatile organic sulfur compound that provides the largest input of biogenic sulfur from the oceans to the atmosphere, and thence back to land, constituting an important link in the global sulfur cycle. Microorganisms degrading DMS affect fluxes of DMS in the environment, but the underlying metabolic pathways are still poorly understood. Methylophaga thiooxydans is a marine methylotrophic bacterium capable of growth on DMS as sole source of carbon and energy. Using proteomics and transcriptomics we identified genes expressed during growth on dimethylsulfide and methanol to refine our knowledge of the metabolic pathways that are involved in DMS and methanol degradation in this strain. Amongst the most highly expressed genes on DMS were the two methanethiol oxidases driving the oxidation of this reactive and toxic intermediate of DMS metabolism. Growth on DMS also increased expression of the enzymes of the tetrahydrofolate linked pathway of formaldehyde oxidation, in addition to the tetrahydromethanopterin linked pathway. Key enzymes of the inorganic sulfur oxidation pathway included flavocytochrome c sulfide dehydrogenase, sulfide quinone oxidoreductase, and persulfide dioxygenases. A sulP permease was also expressed during growth on DMS. Proteomics and transcriptomics also identified a number of highly expressed proteins and gene products whose function is currently not understood. As the identity of some enzymes of organic and inorganic sulfur metabolism previously detected in Methylophaga has not been characterized at the genetic level yet, highly expressed uncharacterized genes provide new targets for further biochemical and genetic analysis. A pan-genome analysis of six available Methylophaga genomes showed that only two of the six investigated strains, M. thiooxydans and M. sulfidovorans have the gene encoding methanethiol oxidase, suggesting that growth on methylated sulfur compounds of M. aminisulfidivorans is likely to involve different enzymes and metabolic intermediates. Hence, the pathways of DMS-utilization and subsequent C1 and sulfur oxidation are not conserved across Methylophaga isolates that degrade methylated sulfur compounds.
PXD012279	31192604	Delineation of the Olive Pollen Proteome and Its Allergenome Unmasks Cyclophilin as a Relevant Cross-Reactive Allergen. 	Delineation of the olive pollen proteome: A focus on its allergen families	Olive pollen, allergen families	Olive pollen is a major allergenic source worldwide due to its extensive cultivation. We have combined available genomics data with a comprehensive proteomics approach to get the annotated olive tree (Olea europaea L.) pollen proteome and define its complex allergenome. A total of 1907 proteins were identified by LC-MS/MS using predicted protein sequences from its genome. Most proteins (60%) were predicted to possess catalytic activity and be involved in metabolic processes. In total, 203 proteins belonging to 47 allergen families were found in olive pollen. A peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase, cyclophilin, produced in Escherichia coli, was found as a new olive pollen allergen (Ole e 15). Most Ole e 15-sensitized patients were children (63%) and showed strong IgE recognition to the allergen. Ole e 15 shared high sequence identity with other plant, animal, and fungal cyclophilins and presented high IgE cross-reactivity with pollen, plant food, and animal extracts.
PXD012514	31194741	A new identified suppressor of Cdc7p/SepH kinase, PomA, regulates fungal asexual reproduction via affecting phosphorylation of MAPK-HogA. 	A new identified suppressor of Cdc7p/SepH kinase, PomA, regulates fungal asexual reproduction via affecting phosphorylation of MAPK-HogA	Aspergillus nidulans, PomA, The septation initiation network (SIN), the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)	The septation initiation network (SIN), composed of a conserved SepH (Cdc7p) kinase cascade, plays an essential role in fungal cytokinesis/septation and conidiation for asexual reproduction, while the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway depends on successive signaling cascade phosphorylation to sense and respond to stress and environmental factors. In this study, a SepH suppressor-PomA in the filamentous fungus A. nidulans is identified as a negative regulator of septation and conidiation such that the pomA mutant is able to cure defects of sepH1 in septation and conidiation and overexpression of pomA remarkably suppresses septation. Under the normal cultural condition, SepH positively regulates the phosphorylation of MAPK-HogA, while PomA reversely affects this process. In the absence of PbsB (MAPKK, a putative upstream member of HogA), PomA and SepH are unable to affect the phosphorylation level of HogA. Under the osmostress condition, the induced phosphorylated HogA is capable of bypassing the requirement of SepH, a key player for early events during cytokinesis but not for MobA/SidB, the last one in the core SIN protein kinase cascade, indicating the osmotic stimuli-induced septation is capable of bypassing requirement of SepH but unable to bypass the whole SIN requirement. Findings demonstrate that crosstalk exists between the SIN and MAPK pathways. PomA and SepH indirectly regulate HogA phosphorylation through affecting HogA-P upstream kinases.
PXD012060	31195152	Pharmacoproteomics reveal novel protective activity of bromodomain containing 4 inhibitors on vascular homeostasis in TLR3-mediated airway remodeling. 	BALF secretome and exosome proteomics	airway fibrosis, bromodomain containing protein 4, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteomics, epithelial mesenchymal transition, pericytes	Small molecule inhibitors of the epigenetic regulator bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) are potential therapeutics for viral and allergen-induced airway remodeling. A limitation of their preclinical advancement is the lack of detailed understanding of mechanisms of action and biomarkers of effect. We report a systems-level pharmacoproteomics in a standardized murine model of toll-like receptor TLR3-NFkappaB/RelA innate inflammation in the absence or presence of a highly selective BRD4 inhibitor (ZL0454) or nonselective bromodomain and extraterminal domain inhibitor (JQ1). Proteomics of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) secretome and exosomal proteins from this murine model revealed increased, selective, capillary leak associated with pericyte-myofibroblast transition, a phenomenon blocked by BRD4 inhibitors. BALF proteomics also suggested that ZL0454 better reduced the vascular leakage and extracellular matrix deposition than JQ1. A significant subset of inflammation-mediated remodeling factors was also identified in a mouse model of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis produced by bleomycin. BALF exosome analysis indicated that BRD4 inhibitors reduced the induction of exosomes enriched in coagulation factors whose presence correlated with interstitial fibrin deposition. Finally, BALF samples from humans with severe asthma demonstrated similar upregulations of ORM2, APCS, SPARCL1, FGA, and FN1, suggesting their potential as biomarkers for early detection of airway remodeling and/or monitoring of therapy response. SIGNIFICANCE: Repetitive and chronic viral upper respiratory tract infections trigger toll-like receptor (TLR)3-NFkappaB/RelA mediated airway remodeling which is linked to a progressive decline in pulmonary function in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Small molecule inhibitors of the epigenetic regulator bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) are potential therapeutics for viral and allergen-induced airway remodeling. A limitation of their preclinical advancement is the lack of detailed understanding of mechanisms of action and biomarkers of effect. Our study revealed that the activation of (TLR)3-NFkappaB/RelA pathway in the lung induced an elevation in coagulation, complement, and platelet factors, indicating the increased vascular leak during airway remodeling. The mechanism of vascular leakage was chronic inflammation-induced pericyte-myofibroblast transition, which was blocked by BRD4 inhibitors. Finally, proteomics analysis of the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from humans with severe asthma demonstrated similar findings that we observed in the animal model.
PXD013486	31195796	Combination of SCX Fractionation and Charge-Reversal Derivatization Facilitates the Identification of Nontryptic Peptides in C-Terminomics. 	SCX, 18O-labeling and charge reversal for C-terminomics	C-terminomics, Charge-reversal derivatization, LC-MS	The proteome wide, mass spectrometry based identification of protein C-termini is hampered by factors such as poor ionization efficiencies, low yielding labeling strategies, or the need for enrichment procedures. We present a bottom-up proteomics workflow to identify protein C-termini utilizing a combination of strong cation exchange chromatography, on-solid phase charge-reversal derivatization and LC-MS/MS analysis. Charge-reversal improved both MS and MS/MS spectra quality of peptides carrying nonbasic C-terminal residues, allowing the identification of a high number of noncanonical C-termini not identified in nonderivatized samples. Further, we could show that C-terminal (18)O labeling introduced during proteolytic processing of the samples is not suitable to distinguish internal from C-terminal peptides. The presented workflow enables the simultaneous identification of proteins by internal peptides and additionally provides data for the C- and N-terminome. Applying the developed workflow for the analysis of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteome allowed the identification of 734 protein C-termini in three independent biological replicates, and additional 789 candidate C-termini identified in two or one of three biological replicates, respectively. The developed analytical workflow allowed us to chart the nature of the yeast C-terminome in unprecedented depth and provides an alternative methodology to assess C-terminal proteolytic protein processing.
PXD011875	31196865	Protein aggregation mediates stoichiometry of protein complexes in aneuploid cells. 	Protein aggregation mediates protein complex stoichiometry in aneuploid cells, part 2	aggregates, aneuploidy, proteostasis	Aneuploidy, a condition characterized by chromosome gains and losses, causes reduced fitness and numerous cellular stresses, including increased protein aggregation. Here, we identify protein complex stoichiometry imbalances as a major cause of protein aggregation in aneuploid cells. Subunits of protein complexes encoded on excess chromosomes aggregate in aneuploid cells, which is suppressed when expression of other subunits is coordinately altered. We further show that excess subunits are either degraded or aggregate and that protein aggregation is nearly as effective as protein degradation at lowering levels of excess proteins. Our study explains why proteotoxic stress is a universal feature of the aneuploid state and reveals protein aggregation as a form of dosage compensation to cope with disproportionate expression of protein complex subunits.
PXD013419	31196968	Cancer Cell Derived Small Extracellular Vesicles Contribute to Recipient Cell Metastasis Through Promoting HGF/c-Met Pathway. 	Exosomes proteome of human lung cancer cell lines 95C and 95D	Exosome, HGF/c-Met pathway, Lung cancer, Metastasis, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Cancer progression is frequently caused by metastasis and leads to significantly increased mortality. Cell derived extracellular vesicles, including exosomes, in the microenvironment play key roles in cellular signal transduction, whereas their biological function in cancer metastasis and progression needs in-depth investigation. Here, we initially demonstrate that the small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) derived from highly metastatic lung cancer cells exhibited great capacity to promote the progression of recipient cells. Quantitative proteomics was employed to comprehensively decipher the proteome of cell derived sEVs and more than 1400 sEVs proteins were identified. Comparison analysis indicates that sEVs-HGF is a potential metastasis related protein and our verification data from clinical lung cancer plasma samples and in vivo experiments further confirmed the association. We found that sEVs-HGF could induce epithelial-mesenchymal transition and the coordination between HGF and c-Met was confirmed through corresponding target knockdown and kinase inhibition. Our data collectively demonstrate that cancer cell derived sEVs contribute to recipient cell metastasis through promoting HGF/c-Met pathway, which are potential targets for the prevention and treatment of cancer metastasis.
PXD012832	31197144	Abundance of bacterial Type VI secretion system components measured by targeted proteomics. 	Analysis of bacterial Type VI Secretion Systems Stoichiometry by Targeted Proteomics	SRM, Type VI Secretion Systems, complex stoichiometry	The Type VI secretion system (T6SS) is important for bacterial competition as well as virulence in many Gram-negative bacteria and its dynamics and regulation varies significantly between species. To gain insights into the mechanisms regulating T6SS assembly, we apply targeted proteomics to determine the abundance of the key T6SS components in Vibrio cholerae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baylyi. We show that while there are species specific exceptions, the abundance of most components is similar in all three bacteria and ranges from less than hundred to tens of thousands of copies per cell. The comparison of T6SS dynamics and protein abundance in V. cholerae grown under various conditions suggests that the critical component TssE and the secreted protein VasX are unstable and this diminishes T6SS assembly when protein synthesis is limited. Our quantitative analysis opens possibilities to build realistic models of T6SS assembly and to identify principles of T6SS regulation in various species.
PXD012767	31199160	Differential Proteomics Reveals Discrete Functions of Proteins Interacting with Hypo- versus Hyper-phosphorylated NS5A of the Hepatitis C Virus. 	HCV Hypo- vs. Hyper-Phosphorylated NS5A Interactome	HCV, NS5A, antiviral, cancer, liver	Protein phosphorylation is a reversible post-translational modification that regulates many biological processes in almost all living forms. In the case of the hepatitis C virus (HCV), the nonstructural protein 5A (NS5A) is believed to transit between hypo- and hyper-phosphorylated forms that interact with host proteins to execute different functions; however, little was known about the proteins that bind either form of NS5A. Here, we generated two high-quality antibodies specific to serine 235 nonphosphorylated hypo- vs serine 235 phosphorylated (pS235) hyper-phosphorylated form of NS5A and for the first time segregated these two forms of NS5A plus their interacting proteins for dimethyl-labeling based proteomics. We identified 629 proteins, of which 238 were quantified in three replicates. Bioinformatics showed 46 proteins that preferentially bind hypo-phosphorylated NS5A are involved in antiviral response and another 46 proteins that bind pS235 hyper-phosphorylated NS5A are involved in liver cancer progression. We further identified a DNA-dependent kinase (DNA-PK) that binds hypo-phosphorylated NS5A. Inhibition of DNA-PK with an inhibitor or via gene-specific knockdown significantly reduced S232 phosphorylation and NS5A hyper-phosphorylation. Because S232 phosphorylation initiates sequential S232/S235/S238 phosphorylation leading to NS5A hyper-phosphorylation, we identified a new protein kinase that regulates a delicate balance of NS5A between hypo- and hyper-phosphorylation states, respectively, involved in host antiviral responses and liver cancer progression.
PXD010006	31199885	Ouabain-regulated phosphoproteome reveals molecular mechanisms for Na(+), K(+)-ATPase control of cell adhesion, proliferation, and survival. 	Characterization of the phospho-signalling mediated by the sodium-potassium ATPase in response to ouabain	Akt, CAMK, IP3R, InsP3 receptor, MAPK, apoptosis, calcium, calcium oscillations, calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, na-k-atpase, nka, ouabain, phosphoproteomics, sodium-potassium ATPase	The ion pump Na(+), K(+)-ATPase (NKA) is a receptor for the cardiotonic steroid ouabain. Subsaturating concentration of ouabain triggers intracellular calcium oscillations, stimulates cell proliferation and adhesion, and protects from apoptosis. However, it is controversial whether ouabain-bound NKA is considered a signal transducer. To address this question, we performed a global analysis of protein phosphorylation in COS-7 cells, identifying 2580 regulated phosphorylation events on 1242 proteins upon 10- and 20-min treatment with ouabain. Regulated phosphorylated proteins include the inositol triphosphate receptor and stromal interaction molecule, which are essential for initiating calcium oscillations. Hierarchical clustering revealed that ouabain triggers a structured phosphorylation response that occurs in a well-defined, time-dependent manner and affects specific cellular processes, including cell proliferation and cell-cell junctions. We additionally identify regulation of the phosphorylation of several calcium and calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CAMKs), including 2 sites of CAMK type II-gamma (CAMK2G), a protein known to regulate apoptosis. To verify the significance of this result, CAMK2G was knocked down in primary kidney cells. CAMK2G knockdown impaired ouabain-dependent protection from apoptosis upon treatment with high glucose or serum deprivation. In conclusion, we establish NKA as the coordinator of a broad, tightly regulated phosphorylation response in cells and define CAMK2G as a downstream effector of NKA.-Panizza, E., Zhang, L., Fontana, J. M., Hamada, K., Svensson, D., Akkuratov, E. E., Scott, L., Mikoshiba, K., Brismar, H., Lehtioe, J., Aperia, A. Ouabain-regulated phosphoproteome reveals molecular mechanisms for Na(+), K(+)-ATPase control of cell adhesion, proliferation, and survival.
PXD012460	31200599	In Depth Quantification of Extracellular Matrix Proteins from Human Pancreas. 	In depth quantification of extracellular matrix proteins from human pancreas	ECM, quantitative proteomics, sample preparation, tissue engineering	Extracellular matrix (ECM) is an important component of the pancreatic microenvironment which regulates beta cell proliferation, differentiation, and insulin secretion. Protocols have recently been developed for the decellularization of the human pancreas to generate functional scaffolds and hydrogels. In this work, we characterized human pancreatic ECM composition before and after decellularization using isobaric dimethylated leucine (DiLeu) labeling for relative quantification of ECM proteins. A novel correction factor was employed in the study to eliminate the bias introduced during sample preparation. In comparison to the commonly employed sample preparation methods (urea and FASP) for proteomic analysis, a recently developed surfactant and chaotropic agent assisted sequential extraction/on pellet digestion (SCAD) protocol has provided an improved strategy for ECM protein extraction of human pancreatic ECM matrix. The quantitative proteomic results revealed the preservation of matrisome proteins while most of the cellular proteins were removed. This method was compared with a well-established label-free quantification (LFQ) approach which rendered similar expressions of different categories of proteins (collagens, ECM glycoproteins, proteoglycans, etc.). The distinct expression of ECM proteins was quantified comparing adult and fetal pancreas ECM, shedding light on the correlation between matrix composition and postnatal beta cell maturation. Despite the distinct profiles of different subcategories in the native pancreas, the distribution of matrisome proteins exhibited similar trends after the decellularization process. Our method generated a large data set of matrisome proteins from a single tissue type. These results provide valuable insight into the possibilities of constructing a bioengineered pancreas. It may also facilitate better understanding of the potential roles that matrisome proteins play in postnatal beta cell maturation.
PXD011742	31201797	Mechanism of 17beta-estradiol stimulated integration of human mesenchymal stem cells in heart tissue. 	Mechanism of 17-beta Estradiol Stimulated Integration of Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Heart Tissue	Estrogen, gender, heart disease, heart repair, stem cells, tissue remodeling, women	Scarcity of gender specific donor hearts highlights the importance of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as a therapeutic tool for heart repair. However, inefficient incorporation, retention, and activity of MSCs in cardiac tissue remain an obstacle. Since surges in follicular estradiol (E2; mumolar-range) trigger tissue remodeling (e.g. ovulation) and E2 exerts beneficial actions on the cardiovascular system, we hypothesized that E2 may promote/improve MSC-mediated cardiac repair processes. Using Wharton's jelly (WJ)-derived MSCs we assessed the effects of E2 on MSC proliferation, directed migration, and engraftment in murine heart slices (using xCELLigence real-time cell-impedance system, DNA quantification, and microscopy) and on MSC-induced angiogenesis in vivo (matrigel plug assay). Protein expression was assessed by Western blotting, ELISA/Luminex, and proteomic analysis; whereas mRNA expression was assessed by qRT-PCR. MSCs expressed estrogen receptors (ERs) -alpha and -beta. E2 promoted MSC proliferation and up-regulated mRNA and protein expression of ER-alpha, ER-beta, extracellular matrix metalloproteinase inducer (EMMPRIN), and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) -9, yet down-regulated MMP-2 expression. Moreover, E2 up-regulated expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A, VEGFR-2, vascular cell adhesion protein-1 (VCAM-1), and angiogenin (ANG) and stimulated nitric oxide (NO) production via ER. Proteomic analysis of MSCs showed that E2 up-regulated 47 proteins, down-regulated 7 proteins, and increased the expression of key biochemical components/pathways involved in tissue repair. In MSCs co-cultured with murine heart-slices, E2 significantly induced MSC migration in an ER-alpha-dependent fashion and significantly increased the secretion of MMP-2, MMP-9, ANG, and VEGF. In an in vivo matrigel assay, E2-treated MSCs increased angiogenesis and hemoglobin content. In conclusion, E2-treatment increases the incorporation of MSCs in heart slices and promotes MSC-induced angiogenesis. These beneficial effects are mediated via increases in molecules/pathways involved in tissue remodeling and angiogenesis. We speculate that E2 may enhance MSC ability to repair/regenerate cardiac tissue.
PXD012434	31201947	Proteomic insights into short neurotoxin-driven, highly neurotoxic venom of Philippine cobra (Naja philippinensis) and toxicity correlation of cobra envenomation in Asia. 	Proteome data of snake venoms_file 1	LCMS/MS, Snake venom, Venom proteome	The Philippine cobra, Naja philippinensis, is a WHO Category 1 venomous snake of medical importance responsible for fatal envenomation in the northern Philippines. To elucidate the venom proteome and pathophysiology of envenomation, N. philippinensis venom proteins were decomplexed with reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, and protein fractions were subsequently digested with trypsin, followed by nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis and data mining. Three-finger toxins (3FTX, 66.64% of total venom proteins) and phospholipases A2 (PLA2, 22.88%) constitute the main bulk of venom proteome. Other proteins are present at low abundances (<4% each); these include metalloproteinase, serine protease, cobra venom factor, cysteine-rich secretory protein, vespryn, phosphodiesterase, 5' nucleotidase and nerve growth factor. In the three-finger toxin family, the alpha-neurotoxins comprise solely short neurotoxins (SNTX, 44.55%), supporting that SNTX is the principal toxin responsible for neuromuscular paralysis and lethality reported in clinical envenomation. Cytotoxins (CTX) are the second most abundant 3FTX proteins in the venom (21.31%). The presence of CTX correlates with the venom cytotoxic effect, which is more prominent in murine cells than in human cells. From the practical standpoint, SNTX-driven neuromuscular paralysis is significant in N. philippinensis envenomation. Antivenom production and treatment should be tailored accordingly to ensure effective neutralization of SNTX. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The venom proteome of Naja philippinensis, the Philippine cobra, is unravelled for the first time. Approximately half the protein bulk of the venom is made up of short neurotoxins (44.55% of the total venom proteins). As the only alpha-neurotoxins present in the venom, short neurotoxins are the causative toxins of the post-synaptic blockade and fast-onset neuromuscular paralysis in N. philippinensis envenomation. A substantial amount of cytotoxins (21.31%) was also detected in N. philippinensis venom, supporting that the venom can be cytotoxic although the effect is much weaker in human cells compared to murine cells. The finding is consistent with the low incidence of local tissue necrosis in N. philippinensis envenomation, although this does not negate the need for monitoring and care of bite wound in the patients.
PXD012809	31201948	Interaction networks of Weibel-Palade body regulators syntaxin-3 and syntaxin binding protein 5 in endothelial cells. 	Interaction networks of Weibel-Palade body regulators syntaxin-3 and syntaxin binding protein 5 in endothelial cells	SNARE protein, Weibel-Palade body, protein-protein interactions, syntaxin	The endothelium stores the hemostatic protein Von Willebrand factor (VWF) in endothelial storage organelles called Weibel-Palade bodies (WPBs). During maturation, WPBs recruit a complex of Rab GTPases and effectors that associate with components of the SNARE machinery that control WPB exocytosis. Recent genome wide association studies have found links between genetic variations in the SNAREs syntaxin-2 (STX2) and syntaxin binding protein 5 (STXBP5) and VWF plasma levels, suggesting a role for SNARE proteins in regulating VWF release. Moreover, we have previously identified the SNARE proteins syntaxin-3 and STXBP1 as regulators of WPB release. In this study we used an unbiased iterative interactomic approach to identify new components of the WPB exocytotic machinery. An interactome screen of syntaxin-3 identifies a number of SNAREs and SNARE associated proteins (STXBP2, STXBP5, SNAP23, NAPA and NSF). We show that the VAMP-like domain (VLD) of STXBP5 is indispensable for the interaction with SNARE proteins and this capacity of the VLD could be exploited to identify an extended set of novel endothelial SNARE interactors of STXBP5. In addition, an STXBP5 variant with an N436S substitution, which is linked to lower VWF plasma levels, does not show a difference in interactome when compared with WT STXBP5. SIGNIFICANCE: The hemostatic protein Von Willebrand factor plays a pivotal role in vascular health: quantitative or qualitative deficiencies of VWF can lead to bleeding, while elevated levels of VWF are associated with increased risk of thrombosis. Tight regulation of VWF secretion from WPBs is therefore essential to maintain vascular homeostasis. We used an unbiased proteomic screen to identify new components of the regulatory machinery that controls WPB exocytosis. Our data expand the endothelial SNARE protein network and provide a set of novel candidate WPB regulators that may contribute to regulation of VWF plasma levels and vascular health.
PXD010839	31203412	Combined transcriptomic and proteomic analysis reveals a diversity of venom-related and toxin-like peptides expressed in the mat anemone Zoanthus natalensis (Cnidaria, Hexacorallia). 	coral proteomics study -  Combined transcriptomic and proteomic analysis reveals a diversity of venom-related and toxin-like peptides expressed in the mat anemone Zoanthus natalensis (Cnidaria, Hexacorallia)	coral, transcriptomics	Venoms from marine animals have been recognized as a new emerging source of peptide-based therapeutics. Several peptide toxins from sea anemone have been investigated as therapeutic leads or pharmacological tools. Venom complexity should be further highlighted using combined strategies of large-scale sequencing and data analysis which integrated transcriptomics and proteomics to elucidate new proteins or peptides to be compared among species. In this work, transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were combined to identify six groups of expressed peptide toxins in Zoanthus natalensis. These include neurotoxin, hemostatic and hemorrhagic toxin, protease inhibitor, mixed function enzymes, venom auxiliary proteins, allergen peptides, and peptides related to the innate immunity. Molecular docking analysis indicated that one expressed Zoanthus Kunitz-like peptide, ZoaKuz1, could be a voltage-gated potassium channels blocker and, hence, it was selected for functional studies. Functional bioassays revealed that ZoaKuz1 has an intrinsic neuroprotective activity in zebrafish model of Parkinson's disease. Since pharmacological blockade of KV channels is known to induce neuroprotective effects, ZoaKuz1 holds the potential to be developed in a therapeutic tool to control neural dysfunction by slowing or even halting neurodegeneration mediated by ion-channel hyperactivity.
PXD012880	31203967	Snap-heated freeze-free preservation and processing of the urine proteome using the combination of stabilizor-based technology and filter aided sample preparation. 	Snap-heated freeze-free preservation and processing of the urine proteome	FASP, Human urine, proteome preservation, stabilizor-based technology	We present a method to preserve and process urine proteins for proteomic analysis in a filter aided sample preparation (FASP) format. The method combines concentration of urine proteins in ultrafiltration devices, their thermal stabilization, allowing long term storage of the samples, and filter aided sample preparation. Proteomes of four different urines were preserved during 48 h and 6 months using (i) the classic freeze preservation at -20 degreesC, (ii) snap-heated freeze-free preservation at laboratory temperature (20 degreesC) and (iii) snap-heated preservation at -60 degreesC. The three storage methods can effetely preserve the urine proteome for at least 6 months without significant alterations. Abundances of more than 500 proteins and specially 24 selected -cleared or -approved protein assayed in serum or plasma were found similar within the three preservation methods assessed. The new method here proposed dramatically simplifies the conditions for preserving the urine proteome for biobanks in terms of space and storage, including lowering the risks of sample degradation caused by misfunction of the freezer. Furthermore, the shipping of large number of samples can be made without the need of freezing. The application of the FASP format to isolate and preserve the proteins facilitates long-term storage and processing of proteome of urine samples.
PXD011262	31204315	Mapping Spatiotemporal Microproteomics Landscape in Experimental Model of Traumatic Brain Injury Unveils a link to Parkinson's Disease. 	Temporally  &  Spatially-Resolved  Microproteomics  and  MALDI  MSI  Lipidomic  Analysis  for  Traumatic  Brain  Injury	astrocyte, long-chain acylcarnitine, macrophage, spatiotemporal microproteomics, substantia nigra, traumatic brain injury	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) represents a major health concerns with no clinically-approved FDA drug available for therapeutic intervention. Several genomics and neuroproteomics studies have been employed to decipher the underlying pathological mechanisms involved that can serve as potential neurotherapeutic targets and unveil a possible underlying relation of TBI to other secondary neurological disorders. In this work, we present a novel high throughput systems biology approach using a spatially resolved microproteomics platform conducted on different brain regions in an experimental rat model of moderate of controlled cortical injury (CCI) at a temporal pattern postinjury (1 day, 3 days, 7 days, and 10 days). Mapping the spatiotemporal landscape of signature markers in TBI revealed an overexpression of major protein families known to be implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) such as GPR158, HGMB1, synaptotagmin and glutamate decarboxylase in the ipsilateral substantia nigra. In silico bioinformatics docking experiments indicated the potential correlation between TBI and PD through alpha-synuclein. In an in vitro model, stimulation with palmitoylcarnitine triggered an inflammatory response in macrophages and a regeneration processes in astrocytes which also further confirmed the in vivo TBI proteomics data. Taken together, this is the first study to assess the microproteomics landscape in TBI, mainly in the substantia nigra, thus revealing a potential predisposition for PD or Parkinsonism post-TBI.
PXD011593	31204432	Protein-based cardiogenic shock patient classifier. 	Protein-based Cardiogenic Shock Patient Classifier	Cardiogenic Shock, PRM	AIMS: Cardiogenic shock (CS) is associated with high short-term mortality and a precise CS risk stratification could guide interventions to improve patient outcome. Here, we developed a circulating protein-based score to predict short-term mortality risk among patients with CS. METHODS AND RESULTS: Mass spectrometry analysis of 2654 proteins was used for screening in the Barcelona discovery cohort (n = 48). Targeted quantitative proteomics analyses (n = 51 proteins) were used in the independent CardShock cohort (n = 97) to derive and cross-validate the protein classifier. The combination of four circulating proteins (Cardiogenic Shock 4 proteins-CS4P), discriminated patients with low and high 90-day risk of mortality. CS4P comprises the abundances of liver-type fatty acid-binding protein, beta-2-microglobulin, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase B, and SerpinG1. Within the CardShock cohort used for internal validation, the C-statistic was 0.78 for the CardShock risk score, 0.83 for the CS4P model, and 0.84 (P = 0.033 vs. CardShock risk score) for the combination of CardShock risk score with the CS4P model. The CardShock risk score with the CS4P model showed a marked benefit in patient reclassification, with a net reclassification improvement (NRI) of 0.49 (P = 0.020) compared with CardShock risk score. Similar reclassification metrics were observed in the IABP-SHOCK II risk score combined with CS4P (NRI =0.57; P = 0.032). The CS4P patient classification power was confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). CONCLUSION: A new protein-based CS patient classifier, the CS4P, was developed for short-term mortality risk stratification. CS4P improved predictive metrics in combination with contemporary risk scores, which may guide clinicians in selecting patients for advanced therapies.
PXD012712	31204999	Absolute quantification of cohesin, CTCF and their regulators in human cells. 	Absolute quantification of cohesin and its regulators in human cells	Cell cycle, cohesin, fluorescence-correlation spectroscopy, genome organization, sister chromatid cohesion	The organisation of mammalian genomes into loops and topologically associating domains (TADs) contributes to chromatin structure, gene expression and recombination. TADs and many loops are formed by cohesin and positioned by CTCF. In proliferating cells, cohesin also mediates sister chromatid cohesion, which is essential for chromosome segregation. Current models of chromatin folding and cohesion are based on assumptions of how many cohesin and CTCF molecules organise the genome. Here we have measured absolute copy numbers and dynamics of cohesin, CTCF, NIPBL, WAPL and sororin by mass spectrometry, fluorescence-correlation spectroscopy and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching in HeLa cells. In G1-phase, there are ~250,000 nuclear cohesin complexes, of which ~ 160,000 are chromatin-bound. Comparison with chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing data implies that some genomic cohesin and CTCF enrichment sites are unoccupied in single cells at any one time. We discuss the implications of these findings for how cohesin can contribute to genome organisation and cohesion.
PXD010112	31205498	Proteomic analysis of gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic cancer cells reveals that microtubule-associated protein 2 upregulation associates with taxane treatment. 	(Phospho-)proteomic analysis of gemcitabine resistant pancreatic cancer cells reveals that microtubule-associated protein 2 upregulation associates with taxane treatment response	gemcitabine, label-free, paclitaxel, pancreatic cancer, phosphoproteomics, single-shot	BACKGROUND: Chemoresistance hampers the treatment of patients suffering from pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Here we aimed to evaluate the (phospho)proteome of gemcitabine-sensitive and gemcitabine-resistant PDAC cells to identify novel therapeutic targets and predictive biomarkers. METHODS: The oncogenic capabilities of gemcitabine-sensitive and resistant PDAC cells were evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Cultured cells were analyzed by label-free proteomics. Differential proteins and phosphopeptides were evaluated by gene ontology and for their predictive or prognostic biomarker potential with immunohistochemistry of tissue microarrays. RESULTS: Gemcitabine-resistant cells had increased potential to induce xenograft tumours (p value < 0.001). Differential analyses showed that proteins associated with gemcitabine resistance are correlated with microtubule regulation. Indeed, gemcitabine-resistant cells displayed an increased sensitivity for paclitaxel in vitro (p < 0.001) and nab-paclitaxel had a strong anti-tumour efficacy in vivo. Microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) was found to be highly upregulated (p = 0.002, fold change = 10) and phosphorylated in these resistant cells. Expression of MAP2 was correlated with a poorer overall survival in patients treated with gemcitabine in the palliative (p = 0.037) and adjuvant setting (p = 0.014). CONCLUSIONS: These data show an explanation as to why the combination of gemcitabine with nab-paclitaxel is effective in PDAC patients. The identified gemcitabine-resistance marker, MAP2, emerged as a novel prognostic marker in PDAC patients treated with gemcitabine and warrants further clinical investigation.
PXD013626	31207145	RNA-Binding Motif Protein 6 is a Candidate Serum Biomarker for Pancreatic Cancer. 	RNA-Binding Motif protein 6 is a candidate serum biomarker for pancreatic cancer	Pancreatic cancer, RBM6, Serum biomarker	PURPOSE: Early diagnosis is crucial to improve outcomes for pancreatic cancer patients (PC). The present study is designed to identify differently expressed peptides involved in PC as potential biomarkers. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The serum proteome of 22 PC patients, 12 pancreatitis patients (PP), and 45 healthy controls (HC) are analyzed using magnetic bead-based weak cation exchange (MB-WCX) and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). Next, a supervised neural network (SNN) algorithm model is established by ClinProTools and the candidate biomarker identified using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). Finally, the candidate biomarker is validated in tissue samples. RESULTS: The SNN algorithm model discriminates PC from HC with 92.97% sensitivity and 94.55% specificity. Seventy-six differentially expressed peptides are identified, seven of which are significantly different among PC, PP, and HC (p < 0.05). Only one peak (m/z: 1466.99) tends to be upregulated in samples from HC, PP, and PC, which is identified as region of RNA-binding motif protein 6 (RBM6). In subsequent tissue analysis, it is verified that RBM6 expression is significantly higher in PC tissues than paracancerous tissue. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results indicate that RBM6 might serve as a candidate diagnostic biomarker for PC. CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Methods used in this study could generate serum peptidome profiles of PC, PP, and HC, and present an approach to identify potential biomarkers for diagnosis of this malignancy.
PXD010138	31207390	Proteomic signatures of brain regions affected by tau pathology in early and late stages of Alzheimer's disease. 	Human brain Alzheimer's -  Proteomic signatures of brain regions affected by tau pathology in early and late stages of Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), QE, human brain	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder. Depositions of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and tau protein are among the major pathological hallmarks of AD. Abeta and tau burden follows predictable spatial patterns during the progression of AD. Nevertheless, it remains obscure why certain brain regions are more vulnerable than others; to investigate this and dysregulated pathways during AD progression, a mass spectrometry-based proteomics study was performed. METHODS: In total 103 tissue samples from regions early (entorhinal and parahippocampal cortices - medial temporal lobe (MTL)) and late affected (temporal and frontal cortices - neocortex) by tau pathology were subjected to label-free quantitative proteomics analysis. RESULTS: Considering dysregulated proteins during AD progression, the majority (625 out of 737 proteins) was region specific, while some proteins were shared between regions (101 proteins altered in two areas and 11 proteins altered in three areas). Analogously, many dysregulated pathways during disease progression were exclusive to certain regions, but a few pathways altered in two or more areas. Changes in protein expression indicate that synapse loss occurred in all analyzed regions, while translation dysregulation was preponderant in entorhinal, parahippocampal and frontal cortices. Oxidative phosphorylation impairment was prominent in MTL. Differential proteomic analysis of brain areas in health state (controls) showed higher metabolism and increased expression of AD-related proteins in the MTL compared to the neocortex. In addition, several proteins that differentiate brain regions in control tissue were dysregulated in AD. CONCLUSIONS: This work provides the comparison of proteomic changes in brain regions affected by tau pathology at different stages of AD. Although we identified commonly regulated proteins and pathways during disease advancement, we found that the dysregulated processes are predominantly region specific. In addition, a distinct proteomic signature was found between MTL and neocortex in healthy subjects that might be related to AD vulnerability. These findings highlight the need for investigating AD's cascade of events throughout the whole brain and studies spanning more brain areas are required to better understand AD etiology and region vulnerability to disease.
PXD013789	31208443	Novel interconnections of HOG signaling revealed by combined use of two proteomic software packages. 	Novel interconnections of HOG signaling revealed by combined use of two proteomic software packages	High-osmolarity glycerol (HOG), Hog1, Hyperosmotic stress response, Kic1, MaxQuant, Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), ORMDL, Orm2, Proteome Discoverer, p38	Modern quantitative mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics enables researchers to unravel signaling networks by monitoring proteome-wide cellular responses to different stimuli. MS-based analysis of signaling systems usually requires an integration of multiple quantitative MS experiments, which remains challenging, given that the overlap between these datasets is not necessarily comprehensive. In a previous study we analyzed the impact of the yeast mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) Hog1 on the hyperosmotic stress-affected phosphorylome. Using a combination of a series of hyperosmotic stress and kinase inhibition experiments, we identified a broad range of direct and indirect substrates of the MAPK. Here we re-evaluate this extensive MS dataset and demonstrate that a combined analysis based on two software packages, MaxQuant and Proteome Discoverer, increases the coverage of Hog1-target proteins by 30%. Using protein-protein proximity assays we show that the majority of new targets gained by this analysis are indeed Hog1-interactors. Additionally, kinetic profiles indicate differential trends of Hog1-dependent versus Hog1-independent phosphorylation sites. Our findings highlight a previously unrecognized interconnection between Hog1 signaling and the RAM signaling network, as well as sphingolipid homeostasis.
PXD012291	31209035	Shigella promotes major alteration of gut epithelial physiology and tissue invasion by shutting off host intracellular transport. 	Shigella flexneri effectors IpaJ and VirA globally impair host conventional secretion	Bacteria, IpaJ, SILAC, VirA, pathogen, polarity, secretion	Intracellular trafficking pathways in eukaryotic cells are essential to maintain organelle identity and structure, and to regulate cell communication with its environment. Shigella flexneri invades and subverts the human colonic epithelium by the injection of virulence factors through a type 3 secretion system (T3SS). In this work, we report the multiple effects of two S. flexneri effectors, IpaJ and VirA, which target small GTPases of the Arf and Rab families, consequently inhibiting several intracellular trafficking pathways. IpaJ and VirA induce large-scale impairment of host protein secretion and block the recycling of surface receptors. Moreover, these two effectors decrease clathrin-dependent and -independent endocytosis. Therefore, S. flexneri infection induces a global blockage of host cell intracellular transport, affecting the exchange between cells and their external environment. The combined action of these effectors disorganizes the epithelial cell polarity, disturbs epithelial barrier integrity, promotes multiple invasion events, and enhances the pathogen capacity to penetrate into the colonic tissue in vivo.
PXD013546	31209209	Mediator complex interaction partners organize the transcriptional network that defines neural stem cells. 	Mediator complex interaction partners organize the transcriptional network that defines neural stem cells	Mediator, neural stem cells, transcriptional network	The Mediator complex regulates transcription by connecting enhancers to promoters. High Mediator binding density defines super enhancers, which regulate cell-identity genes and oncogenes. Protein interactions of Mediator may explain its role in these processes but have not been identified comprehensively. Here, we purify Mediator from neural stem cells (NSCs) and identify 75 protein-protein interaction partners. We identify super enhancers in NSCs and show that Mediator-interacting chromatin modifiers colocalize with Mediator at enhancers and super enhancers. Transcription factor families with high affinity for Mediator dominate enhancers and super enhancers and can explain genome-wide Mediator localization. We identify E-box transcription factor Tcf4 as a key regulator of NSCs. Tcf4 interacts with Mediator, colocalizes with Mediator at super enhancers and regulates neurogenic transcription factor genes with super enhancers and broad H3K4me3 domains. Our data suggest that high binding-affinity for Mediator is an important organizing feature in the transcriptional network that determines NSC identity.
PXD013718	31209506	Degradome of soluble ADAM10 and ADAM17 metalloproteases. 	Degradome of soluble ADAM10 and ADAM17 metalloproteases	LC-MS, TAILS, metalloproteases	Disintegrin and metalloproteinases (ADAMs) 10 and 17 can release the extracellular part of a variety of membrane-bound proteins via ectodomain shedding important for many biological functions. So far, substrate identification focused exclusively on membrane-anchored ADAM10 and ADAM17. However, besides known shedding of ADAM10, we identified ADAM8 as a protease capable of releasing the ADAM17 ectodomain. Therefore, we investigated whether the soluble ectodomains of ADAM10/17 (sADAM10/17) exhibit an altered substrate spectrum compared to their membrane-bound counterparts. A mass spectrometry-based N-terminomics approach identified 134 protein cleavage events in total and 45 common substrates for sADAM10/17 within the secretome of murine cardiomyocytes. Analysis of these cleavage sites confirmed previously identified amino acid preferences. Further in vitro studies verified fibronectin, cystatin C, sN-cadherin, PCPE-1 as well as sAPP as direct substrates of sADAM10 and/or sADAM17. Overall, we present the first degradome study for sADAM10/17, thereby introducing a new mode of proteolytic activity within the protease web.
PXD001950	31211768	The heparin-binding proteome in normal pancreas and murine experimental acute pancreatitis. 	The heparin-binding proteome in nomal pancreas and murine experimental acute pancreatitis, C4PR_LIV	LCMSMS, pancreas	Acute pancreatitis (AP) is acute inflammation of the pancreas, mainly caused by gallstones and alcohol, driven by changes in communication between cells. Heparin-binding proteins (HBPs) play a central role in health and diseases. Therefore, we used heparin affinity proteomics to identify extracellular HBPs in pancreas and plasma of normal mice and in a caerulein mouse model of AP. Many new extracellular HBPs (360) were discovered in the pancreas, taking the total number of HBPs known to 786. Extracellular pancreas HBPs form highly interconnected protein-protein interaction networks in both normal pancreas (NP) and AP. Thus, HBPs represent an important set of extracellular proteins with significant regulatory potential in the pancreas. HBPs in NP are associated with biological functions such as molecular transport and cellular movement that underlie pancreatic homeostasis. However, in AP HBPs are associated with additional inflammatory processes such as acute phase response signalling, complement activation and mitochondrial dysfunction, which has a central role in the development of AP. Plasma HBPs in AP included known AP biomarkers such as serum amyloid A, as well as emerging targets such as histone H2A. Other HBPs such as alpha 2-HS glycoprotein (AHSG) and histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) need further investigation for potential applications in the management of AP. Pancreas HBPs are extracellular and so easily accessible and are potential drug targets in AP, whereas plasma HBPs represent potential biomarkers for AP. Thus, their identification paves the way to determine which HBPs may have potential applications in the management of AP.
PXD013895	31212084	Systematic analysis of lysine acetylome reveals potential functions of lysine acetylation in Shewanella baltica, the specific spoilage organism of aquatic products. 	Systematic analysis of lysine acetylome reveals potential functions of lysine acetylation in Shewanellabaltica, the specific spoilage organism of aquatic products	Lysine acetylation, Shewanella. baltica, cold adaptability, metabolism, quorum sensing	Protein lysine acetylation is a major post-translational modification and plays a critical regulatory role in almost every aspect in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, yet there have been no data on Shewanella baltica, which is one of the specific spoilage organism (SSO) of aquatic products. Here, we performed the first global acetylproteome analysis of S. baltica. 2929 lysine acetylation sites were identified in 1103 proteins, accounting for 26.1% of the total proteins which participate in a wide variety of biological processes, especially in the constituent of ribosome, the biosynthesis of aminoacyl-tRNA, the amino acids and fatty acid metabolism. Besides, 14 conserved acetylation motifs were detected in S. baltica. Notably, various directly or indirectly spoilage-related proteins were prevalently acetylated, including enzymes involved in the unsaturated fatty acids biosynthesis closely related to the cold adaptability, cold shock proteins, pivotal enzymes involved in the putrescine biosynthesis, and a LuxR-type protein in quorum sensing system. The acetylome analysis in Shewanella can supplement the database and provide new insight into uncovering the spoilage mechanisms of S. baltica. The provided dataset illuminates the potential role of reversible acetylation in S. baltica, and serves as an important resource for exploring the physiological role of lysine acetylation in prokaryotes. SIGNIFICANCE: The psychrotrophic nature and the ability of S. baltica to make good use of "habitat" nutrients explain its importance in spoilage of seafood stored at low temperatures. However, the underlying mechanism of spoilage potential from the perspective of protein post-translational modification was rarely studied. This work identifies the first comprehensive survey of a lysine acetylome in S. baltica and uncovers the involvement of lysine acetylation in the diverse biological processes, especially in the closely spoilage-related pathways. This study provides a resource for functional analysis of acetylated proteins and creates opportunities for in-depth elucidation of the physiological role of protein acetylation in Shewanella spp.
PXD012628	31212206	Proteomic genotyping of fingermark donors with genetically variant peptides. 	Genetically Variant Peptide Biomarkers from Fingermarks	Epidermal Corneocytes, Fingermarks, Forensic Science, Genetically Variant Peptides	Proteomic genotyping detects single amino acid polymorphisms to infer the genotype of corresponding non-synonymous SNPs. Like any DNA genotype, these inferences can be used to estimate random match probability. Fingermarks are a common source of biological evidence that is sample limited and a highly variable source of identifying DNA. Genetically variant peptides from fingermarks, that contain single amino acid polymorphisms, are an additional source of identifying genetic information. To discover these peptide biomarkers epidermal corneocytes from 9 subjects were isolated, processed, digested with trypsin and applied to mass spectrometry. The resulting proteomic and matching exome datasets were used to discover, characterize and validate 60 genetically variant peptides. An average of 28.8 +/- 4.4 genetically variant peptides were detected from each subject resulting in a total of 264 SNP allele inferences with 260 true and 4 false positives, a false discovery rate of 1.5%. Random match probabilities were estimated using the genotype frequencies from the matching major populations in the 1000 Genomes Project. Estimates ranged up to a value of 1 in 1.7 x 10(8), with a median probability of 1 in 2.4 x 10(6). Furthermore, the proteomically-inferred genotypes are likely to be compatible with the STR-based random match probability estimates since the closest STR locus was 2.2 Mb from the nearest GVP-inferred SNP. This project represents a novel mode of genetic information that can be obtained from fingermarks and has the potential to complement other methods of human identification including analysis of ridge patterns or touch DNA.
PXD009542	31213460	Rebalancing Protein Homeostasis Enhances Tumor Antigen Presentation. 	Limiting the buffer function of HSP90 enhances tumor immunogenicity	HSP90, antigens, peptides	PURPOSE: Despite the accumulation of extensive genomic alterations, many cancers fail to be recognized as "foreign" and escape destruction by the host immune system. Immunotherapies designed to address this problem by directly stimulating immune effector cells have led to some remarkable clinical outcomes, but unfortunately, most cancers fail to respond, prompting the need to identify additional immunomodulatory treatment options.Experimental Design: We elucidated the effect of a novel treatment paradigm using sustained, low-dose HSP90 inhibition in vitro and in syngeneic mouse models using genetic and pharmacologic tools. Profiling of treatment-associated tumor cell antigens was performed using immunoprecipitation followed by peptide mass spectrometry. RESULTS: We show that sustained, low-level inhibition of HSP90 both amplifies and diversifies the antigenic repertoire presented by tumor cells on MHC-I molecules through an IFNgamma-independent mechanism. In stark contrast, we find that acute, high-dose exposure to HSP90 inhibitors, the only approach studied in the clinic to date, is broadly immunosuppressive in cell culture and in patients with cancer. In mice, chronic non-heat shock-inducing HSP90 inhibition slowed progression of colon cancer implants, but only in syngeneic animals with intact immune function. Addition of a single dose of nonspecific immune adjuvant to the regimen dramatically increased efficacy, curing a subset of mice receiving combination therapy. CONCLUSIONS: These highly translatable observations support reconsideration of the most effective strategy for targeting HSP90 to treat cancers and suggest a practical approach to repurposing current orally bioavailable HSP90 inhibitors as a new immunotherapeutic strategy.See related commentary by Srivastava and Callahan, p. 6277.
PXD012023	31213559	Serine-Threonine Kinases Encoded by Split hipA Homologs Inhibit Tryptophanyl-tRNA Synthetase. 	Serine-Threonine Kinase Encoded by a Split hipA Homologous Gene of Escherichia coli Inhibits Tryptophanyl-tRNA Synthetase	E. coli, kinase, phosphorylation	Type II toxin-antitoxin (TA) modules encode a stable toxin that inhibits cell growth and an unstable protein antitoxin that neutralizes the toxin by direct protein-protein contact. hipBA of Escherichia coli strain K-12 codes for HipA, a serine-threonine kinase that phosphorylates and inhibits glutamyl-tRNA synthetase. Induction of hipA inhibits charging of glutamyl-tRNA that, in turn, inhibits translation and induces RelA-dependent (p)ppGpp synthesis and multidrug tolerance. Here, we describe the discovery of a three-component TA gene family that encodes toxin HipT, which exhibits sequence similarity with the C-terminal part of HipA. A genetic screening revealed that trpS in high copy numbers suppresses HipT-mediated growth inhibition. We show that HipT of E. coli O127 is a kinase that phosphorylates tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase in vitro at a conserved serine residue. Consistently, induction of hipT inhibits cell growth and stimulates production of (p)ppGpp. The gene immediately upstream from hipT, called hipS, encodes a small protein that exhibits sequence similarity with the N terminus of HipA. HipT kinase was neutralized by cognate HipS in vivo, whereas the third component, HipB, encoded by the first gene of the operon, did not counteract HipT kinase activity. However, HipB augmented the ability of HipS to neutralize HipT. Analysis of two additional hipBST-homologous modules showed that, indeed, HipS functions as an antitoxin in these cases also. Thus, hipBST constitutes a novel family of tricomponent TA modules where hipA has been split into two genes, hipS and hipT, that function as a novel type of TA pair.IMPORTANCE Bacterial toxin-antitoxin (TA) modules confer multidrug tolerance (persistence) that may contribute to the recalcitrance of chronic and recurrent infections. The first high-persister gene identified was hipA of Escherichia coli strain K-12, which encodes a kinase that inhibits glutamyl-tRNA synthetase. The hipA gene encodes the toxin of the hipBA TA module, while hipB encodes an antitoxin that counteracts HipA. Here, we describe a novel, widespread TA gene family, hipBST, that encodes HipT, which exhibits sequence similarity with the C terminus of HipA. HipT is a kinase that phosphorylates tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase and thereby inhibits translation and induces the stringent response. Thus, this new TA gene family may contribute to the survival and spread of bacterial pathogens.
PXD013338	31213602	CAPRI enables comparison of evolutionarily conserved RNA interacting regions. 	CAPRI RNA binding proteins and domains in Drosophila and Humans	RNA crosslinked peptides, RNA protein interaction	RNA-protein complexes play essential regulatory roles at nearly all levels of gene expression. Using in vivo crosslinking and RNA capture, we report a comprehensive RNA-protein interactome in a metazoan at four levels of resolution: single amino acids, domains, proteins and multisubunit complexes. We devise CAPRI, a method to map RNA-binding domains (RBDs) by simultaneous identification of RNA interacting crosslinked peptides and peptides adjacent to such crosslinked sites. CAPRI identifies more than 3000 RNA proximal peptides in Drosophila and human proteins with more than 45% of them forming new interaction interfaces. The comparison of orthologous proteins enables the identification of evolutionary conserved RBDs in globular domains and intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). By comparing the sequences of IDRs through evolution, we classify them based on the type of motif, accumulation of tandem repeats, conservation of amino acid composition and high sequence divergence.
PXD012552	31216022	XAB2 depletion induces intron retention in POLR2A to impair global transcription and promote cellular senescence. 	XAB2 depletion induces intron retention in POLR2A to impair global transcription and promote cellular senescence	HeLa cell, POLR2A, XAB2	XAB2 is a multi-functional protein participating processes including transcription, splicing, DNA repair and mRNA export. Here, we report POLR2A, the largest catalytic subunit of RNA polymerase II, as a major target gene down-regulated after XAB2 depletion. XAB2 depletion led to severe splicing defects of POLR2A with significant intron retention. Such defects resulted in substantial loss of POLR2A at RNA and protein levels, which further impaired global transcription. Treatment of splicing inhibitor madrasin induced similar reduction of POLR2A. Screen using TMT-based quantitative proteomics identified several proteins involved in mRNA surveillance including Dom34 with elevated expression. Inhibition of translation or depletion of Dom34 rescued the expression of POLR2A by stabilizing its mRNA. Immuno-precipitation further confirmed that XAB2 associated with spliceosome components important to POLR2A expression. Domain mapping revealed that TPR motifs 2-4 and 11 of XAB2 were critical for POLR2A expression by interacting with SNW1. Finally, we showed POLR2A mediated cell senescence caused by XAB2 deficiency. Depletion of XAB2 or POLR2A induced cell senescence by up-regulation of p53 and p21, re-expression of POLR2A after XAB2 depletion alleviated cellular senescence. These data together support that XAB2 serves as a guardian of POLR2A expression to ensure global gene expression and antagonize cell senescence.
PXD011542	31216029	Spliceosome disassembly factors ILP1 and NTR1 promote miRNA biogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Spliceosome disassembly factors ILP1 and NTR1 promote microRNA biogenesis in Arabidopsis	Alternative splicing, circadian clock, intron lariat spliceosome, miRNA, transcription	The intron-lariat spliceosome (ILS) complex is highly conserved among eukaryotes, and its disassembly marks the end of a canonical splicing cycle. In this study, we show that two conserved disassembly factors of the ILS complex, Increased Level of Polyploidy1-1D (ILP1) and NTC-Related protein 1 (NTR1), positively regulate microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis by facilitating transcriptional elongation of MIRNA (MIR) genes in Arabidopsis thaliana. ILP1 and NTR1 formed a stable complex and co-regulated alternative splicing of more than a hundred genes across the Arabidopsis genome, including some primary transcripts of miRNAs (pri-miRNAs). Intriguingly, pri-miRNAs, regardless of having introns or not, were globally down-regulated when the ILP1 or NTR1 function was compromised. ILP1 and NTR1 interacted with core miRNA processing proteins Dicer-like 1 and Serrate, and were required for proper RNA polymerase II occupancy at elongated regions of MIR chromatin, without affecting either MIR promoter activity or pri-miRNA decay. Our results provide further insights into the regulatory role of spliceosomal machineries in the biogenesis of miRNAs.
PXD013939	31217419	PTPN21 and Hook3 relieve KIF1C autoinhibition and activate intracellular transport. 	PTPN21 and Hook3 relieve KIF1C autoinhibition and activate intracellular transport	Autoinhibition, HOOK3, KIF1C, PTPN21	The kinesin-3 KIF1C is a fast organelle transporter implicated in the transport of dense core vesicles in neurons and the delivery of integrins to cell adhesions. Here we report the mechanisms of autoinhibition and release that control the activity of KIF1C. We show that the microtubule binding surface of KIF1C motor domain interacts with its stalk and that these autoinhibitory interactions are released upon binding of protein tyrosine phosphatase PTPN21. The FERM domain of PTPN21 stimulates dense core vesicle transport in primary hippocampal neurons and rescues integrin trafficking in KIF1C-depleted cells. In vitro, human full-length KIF1C is a processive, plus-end directed motor. Its landing rate onto microtubules increases in the presence of either PTPN21 FERM domain or the cargo adapter Hook3 that binds the same region of KIF1C tail. This autoinhibition release mechanism allows cargo-activated transport and might enable motors to participate in bidirectional cargo transport without undertaking a tug-of-war.
PXD011415	31219034	piRNA-guided co-transcriptional silencing coopts nuclear export factors. 	piRNA-guided co-transcriptional silencing coopts nuclear export factors	piRNA transposons piwi nuclear export	The PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway is a small RNA-based immune system that controls the expression of transposons and maintains genome integrity in animal gonads. In Drosophila, piRNA-guided silencing is achieved, in part, via co-transcriptional repression of transposons by Piwi. This depends on Panoramix (Panx); however, precisely how an RNA binding event silences transcription remains to be determined. Here we show that Nuclear Export Factor 2 (Nxf2) and its co-factor, Nxt1, form a complex with Panx and are required for co-transcriptional silencing of transposons in somatic and germline cells of the ovary. Tethering of Nxf2 or Nxt1 to RNA results in silencing of target loci and the concomitant accumulation of repressive chromatin marks. Nxf2 and Panx proteins are mutually required for proper localization and stability. We mapped the protein domains crucial for the Nxf2/Panx complex formation and show that the amino-terminal portion of Panx is sufficient to induce transcriptional silencing.
PXD011782	31219242	A Mass Spectrometry Survey of Chromatin-Associated Proteins in Pluripotency and Early Lineage Commitment. 	A mass spectrometry survey of chromatin-associated proteins in pluripotency and early lineage commitment	Chromatin, Differentiation, LC-MS, Nave Pluripotency, Primed Pluripotency	Pluripotency can be captured in vitro in the form of Embryonic Stem Cells (ESCs). These ESCs can be either maintained in the unrestricted "naive" state of pluripotency, adapted to developmentally more constrained "primed" pluripotency or differentiated towards each of the three germ layers. Epigenetic protein complexes and transcription factors have been shown to specify and instruct transitions from ESCs to distinct cell states. In this study, proteomic profiling of the chromatin landscape by chromatin enrichment for proteomics (ChEP) is used in mouse naive pluripotent ESCs, primed pluripotent Epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs), and cells in early stages of differentiation. A comprehensive overview of epigenetic protein complexes associated with the chromatin is provided and proteins associated with the maintenance and loss of pluripotency are identified. The data reveal major compositional alterations of epigenetic complexes during priming and differentiation of naive pluripotent ESCs. These results contribute to the understanding of ESC differentiation and provide a framework for future studies of lineage commitment of ESCs.
PXD014078	31221586	HnRNP-F regulates EMT in bladder cancer by mediating the stabilization of Snail1 mRNA by binding to its 3' UTR. 	HnRNP-F regulates EMT in bladder cancer by mediating the stabilization of Snail1 mRNA by binding to its 3' UTR	Bladder cancer, EMT, HnRNP-F	BACKGROUND: Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein F (hnRNP-F) has been implicated in multiple cancers, suggesting its role in tumourigenesis, but the potential oncogenic role and mechanism of hnRNP-F in bladder cancer (BC) remain incompletely understood. METHODS: HnRNP-F was identified by proteomic methods. A correlation of hnRNP-F expression with prognosis was analysed in 103 BC patients. Then, we applied in vitro and in vivo methods to reveal the behaviours of hnRNP-F in BC tumourigenesis. Furthermore, the interaction between hnRNP-F and Snail1 mRNA was examined by RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and Snail1 mRNA stability was measured after treatment with actinomycin D. Finally, the binding domain between hnRNP-F and Snail1 mRNA was verified by constructing Snail1 mRNA truncations and mutants. FINDING: HnRNP-F is significantly upregulated in BC tissue, and its increased expression is associated with a poor prognosis in BC patients. HnRNP-F is necessary for tumour growth, inducing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and metastasis in BC. The changes in Snail1 expression were positively correlated with hnRNP-F at both the mRNA and protein levels when hnRNP-F was silenced or enhanced, suggesting that Snail1 is likely a downstream target of hnRNP-F that mediates its effects on enhancing invasion, metastasis and EMT in BC. The overexpression of hnRNP-F caused an increase in the stability of Snail1 mRNA. Our RNA chip analysis revealed that hnRNP-F could combine with Snail1 mRNA, and we further demonstrated that hnRNP-F could directly bind to the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of Snail1 mRNA to enhance its stability. INTERPRETATION: Our findings suggest that hnRNP-F mediates the stabilization of Snail1 mRNA by binding to its 3' UTR, subsequently regulating EMT.
PXD013530	31221832	Rotary substates of mitochondrial ATP synthase reveal the basis of flexible F1-Fo coupling. 	Rotary substates of mitochondrial ATP synthase reveal the basis of flexible F1-FO coupling	ATP Synthase, Electron microscopy, Polytomella	F1Fo-adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthases make the energy of the proton-motive force available for energy-consuming processes in the cell. We determined the single-particle cryo-electron microscopy structure of active dimeric ATP synthase from mitochondria of Polytomella sp. at a resolution of 2.7 to 2.8 angstroms. Separation of 13 well-defined rotary substates by three-dimensional classification provides a detailed picture of the molecular motions that accompany c-ring rotation and result in ATP synthesis. Crucially, the F1 head rotates along with the central stalk and c-ring rotor for the first ~30degrees of each 120degrees primary rotary step to facilitate flexible coupling of the stoichiometrically mismatched F1 and Fo subcomplexes. Flexibility is mediated primarily by the interdomain hinge of the conserved OSCP subunit. A conserved metal ion in the proton access channel may synchronize c-ring protonation with rotation.
PXD013841	31221956	Substrate-induced conformational dynamics of the dopamine transporter. 	Substrate-induced conformational dynamics of the dopamine transporter	MS, Membrane proteins, Protein-ligand interactions, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS)	The dopamine transporter is a member of the neurotransmitter:sodium symporters (NSSs), which are responsible for termination of neurotransmission through Na(+)-driven reuptake of neurotransmitter from the extracellular space. Experimental evidence elucidating the coordinated conformational rearrangements related to the transport mechanism has so far been limited. Here we probe the global Na(+)- and dopamine-induced conformational dynamics of the wild-type Drosophila melanogaster dopamine transporter using hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry. We identify Na(+)- and dopamine-induced changes in specific regions of the transporter, suggesting their involvement in protein conformational transitions. Furthermore, we detect ligand-dependent slow cooperative fluctuations of helical stretches in several domains of the transporter, which could be a molecular mechanism that assists in the transporter function. Our results provide a framework for understanding the molecular mechanism underlying the function of NSSs by revealing detailed insight into the state-dependent conformational changes associated with the alternating access model of the dopamine transporter.
PXD012170	31221974	The Polycomb protein Ezl1 mediates H3K9 and H3K27 methylation to repress transposable elements in Paramecium. 	The Paramecium Ezl1 protein mediates dual methylation of H3 lysines 9 and 27	Polycomb, histone, methylation	In animals and plants, the H3K9me3 and H3K27me3 chromatin silencing marks are deposited by different protein machineries. H3K9me3 is catalyzed by the SET-domain SU(VAR)3-9 enzymes, while H3K27me3 is catalyzed by the SET-domain Enhancer-of-zeste enzymes, which are the catalytic subunits of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2). Here, we show that the Enhancer-of-zeste-like protein Ezl1 from the unicellular eukaryote Paramecium tetraurelia, which exhibits significant sequence and structural similarities with human EZH2, catalyzes methylation of histone H3 in vitro and in vivo with an apparent specificity toward K9 and K27. We find that H3K9me3 and H3K27me3 co-occur at multiple families of transposable elements in an Ezl1-dependent manner. We demonstrate that loss of these histone marks results in global transcriptional hyperactivation of transposable elements with modest effects on protein-coding gene expression. Our study suggests that although often considered functionally distinct, H3K9me3 and H3K27me3 may share a common evolutionary history as well as a common ancestral role in silencing transposable elements.
PXD011766	31222486	Editing the immunopeptidome of melanoma cells using a potent inhibitor of endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1). 	Editing the immunopeptidome of melanoma cells using a potent inhibitor of ER aminopeptidase 1	ERAP1, immunopeptidome, inhibitor	The efficacy of cancer immunotherapy, including treatment with immune-checkpoint inhibitors, often is limited by ineffective presentation of antigenic peptides that elicit T-cell-mediated anti-tumor cytotoxic responses. Manipulation of antigen presentation pathways is an emerging approach for enhancing the immunogenicity of tumors in immunotherapy settings. ER aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) is an intracellular enzyme that trims peptides as part of the system that generates peptides for binding to MHC class I molecules (MHC-I). We hypothesized that pharmacological inhibition of ERAP1 in cells could regulate the cellular immunopeptidome. To test this hypothesis, we treated A375 melanoma cells with a recently developed potent ERAP1 inhibitor and analyzed the presented MHC-I peptide repertoire by isolating MHC-I, eluting bound peptides, and identifying them using capillary chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Although the inhibitor did not reduce cell-surface MHC-I expression, it induced qualitative and quantitative changes in the presented peptidomes. Specifically, inhibitor treatment altered presentation of about half of the total 3204 identified peptides, including about one third of the peptides predicted to bind tightly to MHC-I. Inhibitor treatment altered the length distribution of eluted peptides without change in the basic binding motifs. Surprisingly, inhibitor treatment enhanced the average predicted MHC-I binding affinity, by reducing presentation of sub-optimal long peptides and increasing presentation of many high-affinity 9-12mers, suggesting that baseline ERAP1 activity in this cell line is destructive for many potential epitopes. Our results suggest that chemical inhibition of ERAP1 may be a viable approach for manipulating the immunopeptidome of cancer.
PXD012869	31223520	Investigation of the protein profile of silkworm (Bombyx mori) pupae reared on a well-calibrated artificial diet compared to mulberry leaf diet. 	Investigation of the protein profile of silkworm (Bombyx mori) pupae reared on a well-calibrated artificial diet compared to mulberry leaf diet	Bombyx mori	BACKGROUND: Silkworm pupae is the main by-product of the sericulture industry with an interesting nutritional profile, especially in terms of proteins. In consideration of its possible use as a food or food ingredient in Western countries, a comparative proteomic experiment has been performed to investigate the differences of the protein profile of male and female silkworm pupae reared on mulberry leaves or on an artificial diet. METHODS: The nutritional profile of lyophilized silkworm pupae in terms of dry matter and ash was evaluated according to the AOAC procedures, the total nitrogen content was determined by a nitrogen analyzer and the silkworm pupae gross energy value was measured using an adiabatic calorimetric bomb. The comparative proteomic analysis was performed on male and female silkworm pupae reared on mulberry leaves or on the artificial diet. Proteins were separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis and, after a multivariate statistical analysis, the differentially expressed proteins were identified by LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: The comparative proteomic approach highlighted 47 silkworm pupae proteins differentially expressed comparing diet and gender. PCA analysis showed that seven proteins were more effective in discriminating the sex and five were more effective in discriminating the diet type. In spite of the above-mentioned differences in the silkworm pupae protein profile, no strong alteration of the pupa physiological traits have been demonstrated, suggesting a general silkworm pupae flexibility to adapt to a well-balanced artificial diet. Differences in lipid transport and metabolism were found among the experimental groups, that might have a relevant effect on the timing and on hormone secretion. This aspect may also affect silk production, as univoltine strains are the most productive. The proteomic data provided in this work, may offer a contribution in understanding also the influence of gender and farming strategy on the allergen profile of Bombyx mori, when used as food or as a food ingredient. Female silkworm pupae reared on mulberry leaves seemed to contain lower levels of known allergens than those reared in the other experimental conditions; these findings will have to be taken into account when farming B. mori for food production purposes. However, our results need to be supported by further characterization of the allergenic potential of B. mori.
PXD007188	31225926	Mevalonate pathway activity as a determinant of radiation sensitivity in head and neck cancer. 	Mevalonate pathway activity is a key determinant of radiation sensitivity in head and neck cancer	DDR, HNSCC, LFQ Quantification., Q-Exactive, mevalonate pathway, pitavastatin, senescence	Radioresistance is a major hurdle in the treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Here, we report that concomitant treatment of HNSCCs with radiotherapy and mevalonate pathway inhibitors (statins) may overcome resistance. Proteomic profiling and comparison of radioresistant to radiosensitive HNSCCs revealed differential regulation of the mevalonate biosynthetic pathway. Consistent with this finding, inhibition of the mevalonate pathway by pitavastatin sensitized radioresistant SQ20B cells to ionizing radiation and reduced their clonogenic potential. Overall, this study reinforces the view that the mevalonate pathway is a promising therapeutic target in radioresistant HNSCCs.
PXD012055	31226201	Quantitative proteomics revealed C6orf203/MTRES1 as a factor preventing stress-induced transcription deficiency in human mitochondria. 	Identification of proteins differentially regulated upon perturbed mitochondrial gene expression	Mitochondria	Maintenance of mitochondrial gene expression is crucial for cellular homeostasis. Stress conditions may lead to a temporary reduction of mitochondrial genome copy number, raising the risk of insufficient expression of mitochondrial encoded genes. Little is known how compensatory mechanisms operate to maintain proper mitochondrial transcripts levels upon disturbed transcription and which proteins are involved in them. Here we performed a quantitative proteomic screen to search for proteins that sustain expression of mtDNA under stress conditions. Analysis of stress-induced changes of the human mitochondrial proteome led to the identification of several proteins with poorly defined functions among which we focused on C6orf203, which we named MTRES1 (Mitochondrial Transcription Rescue Factor 1). We found that the level of MTRES1 is elevated in cells under stress and we show that this upregulation of MTRES1 prevents mitochondrial transcript loss under perturbed mitochondrial gene expression. This protective effect depends on the RNA binding activity of MTRES1. Functional analysis revealed that MTRES1 associates with mitochondrial RNA polymerase POLRMT and acts by increasing mitochondrial transcription, without changing the stability of mitochondrial RNAs. We propose that MTRES1 is an example of a protein that protects the cell from mitochondrial RNA loss during stress.
PXD009670	31226937	Does long-term cadmium exposure influence the composition of pectic polysaccharides in the cell wall of Medicago sativa stems? 	impact of Cd-exposure on medicago sativa cell wall	Medicago sativa, cell wall, label-free protein quantification, lignin, long-term cadmium exposure, pectin methylesterase	BACKGROUND: The heavy metal cadmium (Cd) accumulates in the environment due to anthropogenic influences. It is unessential and harmful to all life forms. The plant cell wall forms a physical barrier against environmental stress and changes in the cell wall structure have been observed upon Cd exposure. In the current study, changes in the cell wall composition and structure of Medicago sativa stems were investigated after long-term exposure to Cd. Liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS) for quantitative protein analysis was complemented with targeted gene expression analysis and combined with analyses of the cell wall composition. RESULTS: Several proteins determining for the cell wall structure changed in abundance. Structural changes mainly appeared in the composition of pectic polysaccharides and data indicate an increased presence of xylogalacturonan in response to Cd. Although a higher abundance and enzymatic activity of pectin methylesterase was detected, the total pectin methylation was not affected. CONCLUSIONS: An increased abundance of xylogalacturonan might hinder Cd binding in the cell wall due to the methylation of its galacturonic acid backbone. Probably, the exclusion of Cd from the cell wall and apoplast limits the entry of the heavy metal into the symplast and is an important factor during tolerance acquisition.
PXD013676	31227230	An Atlas of Human Glycosylation Pathways Enables Display of the Human Glycome by Gene Engineered Cells. 	An Atlas of Human Glycosylation Pathways Enables Display of the Human Glycome by Gene Engineered Cells	LC-MS, OrbiTrap, cell array, glycoprotein	The structural diversity of glycans on cells-the glycome-is vast and complex to decipher. Glycan arrays display oligosaccharides and are used to report glycan hapten binding epitopes. Glycan arrays are limited resources and present saccharides without the context of other glycans and glycoconjugates. We used maps of glycosylation pathways to generate a library of isogenic HEK293 cells with combinatorially engineered glycosylation capacities designed to display and dissect the genetic, biosynthetic, and structural basis for glycan binding in a natural context. The cell-based glycan array is self-renewable and reports glycosyltransferase genes required (or blocking) for interactions through logical sequential biosynthetic steps, which is predictive of structural glycan features involved and provides instructions for synthesis, recombinant production, and genetic dissection strategies. Broad utility of the cell-based glycan array is demonstrated, and we uncover higher order binding of microbial adhesins to clustered patches of O-glycans organized by their presentation on proteins.
PXD013988	31227503	HDAC Inhibition Enhances the In Vivo Efficacy of MEK Inhibitor Therapy in Uveal Melanoma. 	HDAC inhibition enhances the in vivo efficacy of MEK inhibitor therapy in uveal melanoma	ABPP, HDAC, uveal melanoma	PURPOSE: The clinical use of MEK inhibitors in uveal melanoma is limited by the rapid acquisition of resistance. This study has used multiomics approaches and drug screens to identify the pan-HDAC inhibitor panobinostat as an effective strategy to limit MEK inhibitor resistance.Experimental Design: Mass spectrometry-based proteomics and RNA-Seq were used to identify the signaling pathways involved in the escape of uveal melanoma cells from MEK inhibitor therapy. Mechanistic studies were performed to evaluate the escape pathways identified, and the efficacy of the MEK-HDAC inhibitor combination was demonstrated in multiple in vivo models of uveal melanoma. RESULTS: We identified a number of putative escape pathways that were upregulated following MEK inhibition, including the PI3K/AKT pathway, ROR1/2, and IGF-1R signaling. MEK inhibition was also associated with increased GPCR expression, particularly the endothelin B receptor, and this contributed to therapeutic escape through ET-3-mediated YAP signaling. A screen of 289 clinical grade compounds identified HDAC inhibitors as potential candidates that suppressed the adaptive YAP and AKT signaling that followed MEK inhibition. In vivo, the MEK-HDAC inhibitor combination outperformed either agent alone, leading to a long-term decrease of tumor growth in both subcutaneous and liver metastasis models and the suppression of adaptive PI3K/AKT and YAP signaling. CONCLUSIONS: Together, our studies have identified GPCR-mediated YAP activation and RTK-driven AKT signaling as key pathways involved in the escape of uveal melanoma cells from MEK inhibition. We further demonstrate that HDAC inhibition is a promising combination partner for MEK inhibitors in advanced uveal melanoma.
PXD009514	31227602	Genome wide analysis of 3' UTR sequence elements and proteins regulating mRNA stability during maternal-to-zygotic transition in zebrafish. 	1 A post-transcriptional regulatory code for mRNA stability dur-ing the maternal-to-zygotic transition	RNA binding proteins, alpha amanitin, embrio, zebra fish	Posttranscriptional regulation plays a crucial role in shaping gene expression. During the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT), thousands of maternal transcripts are regulated. However, how different cis-elements and trans-factors are integrated to determine mRNA stability remains poorly understood. Here, we show that most transcripts are under combinatorial regulation by multiple decay pathways during zebrafish MZT. By using a massively parallel reporter assay, we identified cis-regulatory sequences in the 3' UTR, including U-rich motifs that are associated with increased mRNA stability. In contrast, miR-430 target sequences, UAUUUAUU AU-rich elements (ARE), CCUC, and CUGC elements emerged as destabilizing motifs, with miR-430 and AREs causing mRNA deadenylation upon genome activation. We identified trans-factors by profiling RNA-protein interactions and found that poly(U)-binding proteins are preferentially associated with 3' UTR sequences and stabilizing motifs. We show that this activity is antagonized by C-rich motifs and correlated with protein binding. Finally, we integrated these regulatory motifs into a machine learning model that predicts reporter mRNA stability in vivo.
PXD013700	31229437	Proteomic analysis of urinary extracellular vesicles reveal biomarkers for neurologic disease. 	Proteomic analysis of urinary microvesicles - logitudinal Study	extracellular vesicals, logitudinal, urine	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) harbor thousands of proteins that hold promise for biomarker development. Usually difficult to purify, EVs in urine are relatively easily obtained and have demonstrated efficacy for kidney disease prediction. Herein, we further characterize the proteome of urinary EVs to explore the potential for biomarkers unrelated to kidney dysfunction, focusing on Parkinson's disease (PD). METHODS: Using a quantitative mass spectrometry approach, we measured urinary EV proteins from a discovery cohort of 50 subjects. EVs in urine were classified into subgroups and EV proteins were ranked by abundance and variability over time. Enriched pathways and ontologies in stable EV proteins were identified and proteins that predict PD were further measured in a cohort of 108 subjects. FINDINGS: Hundreds of commonly expressed urinary EV proteins with stable expression over time were distinguished from proteins with high variability. Bioinformatic analyses reveal a striking enrichment of endolysosomal proteins linked to Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and Huntington's disease. Tissue and biofluid enrichment analyses show broad representation of EVs from across the body without bias towards kidney or urine proteins. Among the proteins linked to neurological diseases, SNAP23 and calbindin were the most elevated in PD cases with 86% prediction success for disease diagnosis in the discovery cohort and 76% prediction success in the replication cohort. INTERPRETATION: Urinary EVs are an underutilized but highly accessible resource for biomarker discovery with particular promise for neurological diseases like PD.
PXD011714	31229627	Convergent recruitment of adamalysin-like metalloproteases in the venom of the red bark centipede (Scolopocryptops sexspinosus). 	Scolopocryptops sexspinosus venom MS	Centipede, venom	Many venom proteins have presumably been convergently recruited by taxa from diverse venomous lineages. These toxic proteins have characteristics that allow them to remain stable in solution and have a high propensity for toxic effects on prey and/or potential predators. Despite this well-established convergent toxin recruitment, some toxins seem to be lineage specific. To further investigate the toxic proteins found throughout venomous lineages, venom proteomics and venom-gland transcriptomics were performed on two individual red bark centipedes (Scolopocryptops sexspinosus). Combining the protein phenotype with the transcript genotype resulted in the first in-depth venom characterization of S. sexspinosus, including 72 venom components that were identified in both the transcriptome and proteome and 1468 nontoxin transcripts identified in the transcriptome. Ten different toxin families were represented in the venom and venom gland with the majority of the toxins belonging to metalloproteases, CAPS (cysteine-rich secretory protein, antigen 5, and pathogenesis-related 1 proteins), and beta-pore-forming toxins. Nine of these toxin families shared a similar proteomic structure to venom proteins previously identified from other centipedes. However, the most highly expressed toxin family, the adamalysin-like metalloproteases, has until now only been observed in the venom of snakes. We confirmed adamalysin-like metalloprotease activity by means of in vivo functional assays. The recruitment of an adamalysin-like metalloprotease into centipede venom represents a striking case of convergent evolution.
PXD013490	31231223	Inhibition of mPGES-1 or COX-2 Results in Different Proteomic and Lipidomic Profiles in A549 Lung Cancer Cells. 	Inhibition of mPGES-1 or COX-2 Results in Different Proteomic and Lipidomic Profiles in A549 Lung Cancer Cells	A549, cancer, inflammation, mPGES-1	Pharmacological inhibition of microsomal prostaglandin E synthase (mPGES)-1 for selective reduction in prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) biosynthesis is protective in experimental models of cancer and inflammation. Targeting mPGES-1 is envisioned as a safer alternative to traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Herein, we compared the effects of mPGES-1 inhibitor Compound III (CIII) with the cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor NS-398 on protein and lipid profiles in interleukin (IL)-1beta-induced A549 lung cancer cells using mass spectrometry. Inhibition of mPGES-1 decreased PGE2 production and increased PGF2alpha and thromboxane B2 (TXB2) formation, while inhibition of COX-2 decreased the production of all three prostanoids. Our proteomics results revealed that CIII downregulated multiple canonical pathways including eIF2, eIF4/P70S6K, and mTOR signaling, compared to NS-398 that activated these pathways. Moreover, pathway analysis predicted that CIII increased cell death of cancer cells (Z = 3.8, p = 5.1E-41) while NS-398 decreased the same function (Z = -5.0, p = 6.5E-35). In our lipidomics analyses, we found alterations in nine phospholipids between the two inhibitors, with a stronger alteration in the lysophospholipid (LPC) profile with NS-398 compared to CIII. Inhibition of mPGES-1 increased the concentration of sphinganine and dihydroceramide (C16:0DhCer), while inhibition of COX-2 caused a general decrease in most ceramides, again suggesting different effects on cell death between the two inhibitors. We showed that CIII decreased proliferation and potentiated the cytotoxic effect of the cytostatic drugs cisplatin, etoposide, and vincristine when investigated in a live cell imaging system. Our results demonstrate differences in protein and lipid profiles after inhibition of mPGES-1 or COX-2 with important implications on the therapeutic potential of mPGES-1 inhibitors as adjuvant treatment in cancer. We encourage further investigations to illuminate the clinical benefit of mPGES-1 inhibitors in cancer.
PXD013106	31231226	Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics Approach Characterizes the Dual Functionality of miR-328 in Monocytes. 	MonoMac6 (MM6) cells proteomics LC-MS/MS	MonoMac6 (MM6) cells, inflammation	MicroRNAs (miRs) are small noncoding RNAs which control the expression of target genes by either translational repression or RNA degradation, known as canonical miR functions. The recent discovery that miR-328 has a noncanonical function and can activate gene expression by antagonizing the activity of heterogeneous ribonuclear protein E2 (hnRNP E2) opens an unexplored and exciting field of gene expression regulation. The global importance of such noncanonical miR function is not yet known. In order to achieve a better understanding of the new miR activity, we performed a compartment specific tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomic analysis in differentiated MonoMac6 (MM6) cells, to monitor gene expression variations in response to miR-328 knockdown. We identified a broad spectrum of novel potential miR-328/hnRNP E2 and miR-328 targets involved in regulation of compartment specific cellular processes, such as inflammation or RNA splicing. This study provides first insights of the global significance of noncanonical miR function.
PXD012751	31231331	Cytosine N4-Methylation via M.Ssp6803II Is Involved in the Regulation of Transcription, Fine- Tuning of DNA Replication and DNA Repair in the Cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of DNA methyltransferase mutants of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 - Analysis of total protein extracts	DNA methyltransferase, HDMSE, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, label-free quantification, suppressor mutants	DNA methylation plays a crucial role for gene regulation among eukaryotes, but its regulatory function is less documented in bacteria. In the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 five DNA methyltransferases have been identified. Among them, M.Ssp6803II is responsible for the specific methylation of the first cytosine in the frequently occurring motif GGCC, leading to N4-methylcytosine (GG(m4)CC). The mutation of the corresponding gene sll0729 led to lowered chlorophyll/phycocyanin ratio and slower growth. Transcriptomics only showed altered expression of sll0470 and sll1526, two genes encoding hypothetical proteins. Moreover, prolonged cultivation revealed instability of the initially obtained phenotype. Colonies with normal pigmentation and wild-type-like growth regularly appeared on agar plates. These colonies represent suppressor mutants, because the sll0729 gene was still completely inactivated and the GGCC sites remained unmethylated. The suppressor strains showed smaller cell size, lowered DNA content per cell, and decreased tolerance against UV compared to wild type. Promoter assays revealed that the transcription of the sll0470 gene was still stimulated in the suppressor clones. Proteomics identified decreased levels of DNA topoisomerase 4 subunit A in suppressor cells. Collectively, these results indicate that GG(m4)CC methylation is involved in the regulation of gene expression, in the fine-tuning of DNA replication, and DNA repair mechanisms.
PXD014001	31232453	Symplasmic phloem unloading and radial post-phloem transport via vascular rays in tuberous roots of Manihot esculenta. 	Vascular rays mediate radial assimilate transport in tuberous roots of Manihot esculenta	Apoplast, CFDA, Cassava, Esculin, Morphology, Phloem, Ray, SUC2, Starch, Symplast	Cassava (Manihot esculenta) is one of the most important staple food crops worldwide. Its starchy tuberous roots supply over 800 million people with carbohydrates. Yet, surprisingly little is known about the processes involved in filling of those vital storage organs. A better understanding of cassava carbohydrate allocation and starch storage is key to improving storage root yield. Here, we studied cassava morphology and phloem sap flow from source to sink using transgenic pAtSUC2::GFP plants, the phloem tracers esculin and 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein diacetate, as well as several staining techniques. We show that cassava performs apoplasmic phloem loading in source leaves and symplasmic unloading into phloem parenchyma cells of tuberous roots. We demonstrate that vascular rays play an important role in radial transport from the phloem to xylem parenchyma cells in tuberous roots. Furthermore, enzymatic and proteomic measurements of storage root tissues confirmed high abundance and activity of enzymes involved in the sucrose synthase-mediated pathway and indicated that starch is stored most efficiently in the outer xylem layers of tuberous roots. Our findings form the basis for biotechnological approaches aimed at improved phloem loading and enhanced carbohydrate allocation and storage in order to increase tuberous root yield of cassava.
PXD013227	31234367	Application of Bioactive Thermal Proteome Profiling to Decipher the Mechanism of Action of the Lipid Lowering 13(2)-Hydroxy-pheophytin Isolated from a Marine Cyanobacteria. 	Deciphering mechanism of actions of novel compounds by bioactive thermal proteome profiling	bioactive compound, label-free quantitative proteomics, marine biodiscovery, mechanism of actions, thermal proteome profiling	The acceleration of the process of understanding the pharmacological application of new marine bioactive compounds requires identifying the compound protein targets leading the molecular mechanisms in a living cell. The thermal proteome profiling (TPP) methodology does not fulfill the requirements for its application to any bioactive compound lacking chemical and functional characterization. Here, we present a modified method that we called bTPP for bioactive thermal proteome profiling that guarantees target specificity from a soluble subproteome. We showed that the precipitation of the microsomal fraction before the thermal shift assay is crucial to accurately calculate the melting points of the protein targets. As a probe of concept, the protein targets of 13(2)-hydroxy-pheophytin, a compound previously isolated from a marine cyanobacteria for its lipid reducing activity, were analyzed on the hepatic cell line HepG2. Our improved method identified 9 protein targets out of 2500 proteins, including 3 targets (isocitrate dehydrogenase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, phosphoserine aminotransferase) that could be related to obesity and diabetes, as they are involved in the regulation of insulin sensitivity and energy metabolism. This study demonstrated that the bTPP method can accelerate the field of biodiscovery, revealing protein targets involved in mechanisms of action (MOA) connected with future applications of bioactive compounds.
PXD010838	31235473	Mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation and the electron transport chain comprise a multifunctional mitochondrial protein complex. 	Characterizing the molecular architecture of mitochondrial energy metabolism	ProteomeXchange project tag: Mitochondria (HPP), metabolism, mitochondria, protein interactions, supercomplexes	Three mitochondrial metabolic pathways are required for efficient energy production in eukaryotic cells: the electron transfer chain (ETC), fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO), and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. The ETC is organized into inner mitochondrial membrane supercomplexes that promote substrate channeling and catalytic efficiency. Although previous studies have suggested functional interaction between FAO and the ETC, their physical interaction has never been demonstrated. In this study, using blue native gel and two-dimensional electrophoreses, nano-LC-MS/MS, immunogold EM, and stimulated emission depletion microscopy, we show that FAO enzymes physically interact with ETC supercomplexes at two points. We found that the FAO trifunctional protein (TFP) interacts with the NADH-binding domain of complex I of the ETC, whereas the electron transfer enzyme flavoprotein dehydrogenase interacts with ETC complex III. Moreover, the FAO enzyme very-long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase physically interacted with TFP, thereby creating a multifunctional energy protein complex. These findings provide a first view of an integrated molecular architecture for the major energy-generating pathways in mitochondria that ensures the safe transfer of unstable reducing equivalents from FAO to the ETC. They also offer insight into clinical ramifications for individuals with genetic defects in these pathways.
PXD011302	31235751	Urinary tract colonization is enhanced by a plasmid that regulates uropathogenic Acinetobacter baumannii chromosomal genes. 	Analysis of plasmid induce proteome changes in UPAB1	Acinetobacter baumannii, LC-MS, plasmid	Multidrug resistant (MDR) Acinetobacter baumannii poses a growing threat to global health. Research on Acinetobacter pathogenesis has primarily focused on pneumonia and bloodstream infections, even though one in five A. baumannii strains are isolated from urinary sites. In this study, we highlight the role of A. baumannii as a uropathogen. We develop the first A. baumannii catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI) murine model using UPAB1, a recent MDR urinary isolate. UPAB1 carries the plasmid pAB5, a member of the family of large conjugative plasmids that represses the type VI secretion system (T6SS) in multiple Acinetobacter strains. pAB5 confers niche specificity, as its carriage improves UPAB1 survival in a CAUTI model and decreases virulence in a pneumonia model. Comparative proteomic and transcriptomic analyses show that pAB5 regulates the expression of multiple chromosomally-encoded virulence factors besides T6SS. Our results demonstrate that plasmids can impact bacterial infections by controlling the expression of chromosomal genes.
PXD012633	31239290	Targeted and Interactome Proteomics Revealed the Role of PHD2 in Regulating BRD4 Proline Hydroxylation. 	Protein interactome analysis -  Targeted and Interactome Proteomics Revealed the Role of PHD2 in Regulating BRD4 Proline Hydroxylation	brd4, protein-protein interaction	Proline hydroxylation is a critical cellular mechanism regulating energy homeostasis and development. Our previous study identified and validated Bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) as a proline hydroxylation substrate in cancer cells. Yet, the regulatory mechanism and the functional significance of the modification remain unknown. In this study, we developed targeted quantification assays using parallel-reaction monitoring and biochemical analysis to identify the major regulatory enzyme of BRD4 proline hydroxylation. We further performed quantitative interactome analysis to determine the functional significance of the modification pathway in BRD4-mediated protein-protein interactions and gene transcription. Our findings revealed that PHD2 is the key regulatory enzyme of BRD4 proline hydroxylation and the modification significantly affects BRD4 interactions with key transcription factors as well as BRD4-mediated transcriptional activation. Taken together, this study provided mechanistic insights into the oxygen-dependent modification of BRD4 and revealed new roles of the pathway in regulating BRD4-dependent gene expression.
PXD014195	31239312	Fibro-adipogenic progenitors of dystrophic mice are insensitive to NOTCH regulation of adipogenesis. 	Fibro-adipogenic progenitors of dystrophic mice are insensitive to NOTCH regulation of adipogenesis	NOTCH, adipogenesis, fibro adipogenic progenitors, inflammation, mass cytometry, muscular dystrophy, myopathies, skeletal muscle regeneration	Fibro-adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) promote satellite cell differentiation in adult skeletal muscle regeneration. However, in pathological conditions, FAPs are responsible for fibrosis and fatty infiltrations. Here we show that the NOTCH pathway negatively modulates FAP differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. However, FAPs isolated from young dystrophin-deficient mdx mice are insensitive to this control mechanism. An unbiased mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of FAPs from muscles of wild-type and mdx mice suggested that the synergistic cooperation between NOTCH and inflammatory signals controls FAP differentiation. Remarkably, we demonstrated that factors released by hematopoietic cells restore the sensitivity to NOTCH adipogenic inhibition in mdx FAPs. These results offer a basis for rationalizing pathological ectopic fat infiltrations in skeletal muscle and may suggest new therapeutic strategies to mitigate the detrimental effects of fat depositions in muscles of dystrophic patients.
PXD009541	31240132	CTDP1 regulates breast cancer survival and DNA repair through BRCT-specific interactions with FANCI. 	CTDP1 BRCT domain PPI -  CTDP1 regulates breast cancer survival and DNA repair through BRCT-specific interactions with FANCI	BRCT DNA Damage LC-MSMS	BRCA1 C-terminal domains are found in a specialized group of 23 proteins that function in the DNA damage response to protect genomic integrity. C-terminal domain phosphatase 1 (CTDP1) is the only phosphatase with a BRCA1 C-terminal domain in the human proteome, yet direct participation in the DNA damage response has not been reported. Examination of the CTDP1 BRCA1 C-terminal domain-specific protein interaction network revealed 103 high confidence interactions enriched in DNA damage response proteins, including FANCA and FANCI that are central to the Fanconi anemia DNA repair pathway necessary for the resolution of DNA interstrand crosslink damage. CTDP1 expression promotes DNA damage-induced FANCA and FANCD2 foci formation and enhances homologous recombination repair efficiency. CTDP1 was found to regulate multiple aspects of FANCI activity, including chromatin localization, interaction with gamma-H2AX, and SQ motif phosphorylations. Knockdown of CTDP1 increases MCF-10A sensitivity to DNA interstrand crosslinks and double-strand breaks, but not ultraviolet radiation. In addition, CTDP1 knockdown impairs in vitro and in vivo growth of breast cancer cell lines. These results elucidate the molecular functions of CTDP1 in Fanconi anemia interstrand crosslink repair and identify this protein as a potential target for breast cancer therapy.
PXD010095	31240246	C/EBPbeta-LIP induces cancer-type metabolic reprogramming by regulating the let-7/LIN28B circuit in mice. 	C/EBPbeta-LIP regulates the let-7/Lin28b circuit to induce cancer-type metabolic reprogramming	Q Exactive HF, shotgun proteomics	The transcription factors LAP1, LAP2 and LIP are derived from the Cebpb-mRNA through the use of alternative start codons. High LIP expression has been associated with human cancer and increased cancer incidence in mice. However, how LIP contributes to cellular transformation is poorly understood. Here we present that LIP induces aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration reminiscent of cancer metabolism. We show that LIP-induced metabolic programming is dependent on the RNA-binding protein LIN28B, a translational regulator of glycolytic and mitochondrial enzymes with known oncogenic function. LIP activates LIN28B through repression of the let-7 microRNA family that targets the Lin28b-mRNA. Transgenic mice overexpressing LIP have reduced levels of let-7 and increased LIN28B expression, which is associated with metabolic reprogramming as shown in primary bone marrow cells, and with hyperplasia in the skin. This study establishes LIP as an inducer of cancer-type metabolic reprogramming and as a regulator of the let-7/LIN28B regulatory circuit.
PXD011057	31242261	Genetic dissection of a Leishmania flagellar proteome demonstrates requirement for directional motility in sand fly infections. 	The Leishmania mexicana promastigote flagellar proteome	Leishmania, flagellum	The protozoan parasite Leishmania possesses a single flagellum, which is remodelled during the parasite's life cycle from a long motile flagellum in promastigote forms in the sand fly to a short immotile flagellum in amastigotes residing in mammalian phagocytes. This study examined the protein composition and in vivo function of the promastigote flagellum. Protein mass spectrometry and label free protein enrichment testing of isolated flagella and deflagellated cell bodies defined a flagellar proteome for L. mexicana promastigote forms (available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011057). This information was used to generate a CRISPR-Cas9 knockout library of 100 mutants to screen for flagellar defects. This first large-scale knockout screen in a Leishmania sp. identified 56 mutants with altered swimming speed (52 reduced and 4 increased) and defined distinct mutant categories (faster swimmers, slower swimmers, slow uncoordinated swimmers and paralysed cells, including aflagellate promastigotes and cells with curled flagella and disruptions of the paraflagellar rod). Each mutant was tagged with a unique 17-nt barcode, providing a simple barcode sequencing (bar-seq) method for measuring the relative fitness of L. mexicana mutants in vivo. In mixed infections of the permissive sand fly vector Lutzomyia longipalpis, paralysed promastigotes and uncoordinated swimmers were severely diminished in the fly after defecation of the bloodmeal. Subsequent examination of flies infected with a single paralysed mutant lacking the central pair protein PF16 or an uncoordinated swimmer lacking the axonemal protein MBO2 showed that these promastigotes did not reach anterior regions of the fly alimentary tract. These data show that L. mexicana need directional motility for successful colonisation of sand flies.
PXD011222	31242424	Increased Cholesterol Biosynthesis Is a Key Characteristic of Breast Cancer Stem Cells Influencing Patient Outcome. 	Increased cholesterol biosynthesis identified as a key feature and a therapeutic target of cancer stem cells as revealed by proteomic comparison of clinical breast cancer tissue and corresponding patient-derived xenografts and mammospheres	Breast Cancer Proteomics, FFPE Tissue	Tumor eradication may be greatly improved by targeting cancer stem cells (CSCs), as they exhibit resistance to conventional therapy. To gain insight into the unique biology of CSCs, we developed patient-derived xenograft tumors (PDXs) from ER(-) breast cancers from which we isolated mammospheres that are enriched for CSCs. Comparative global proteomic analysis was performed on patient tumor tissues and corresponding PDXs and mammospheres. Mammospheres exhibited increased expression of proteins associated with de novo cholesterol synthesis. The clinical relevance of increased cholesterol biosynthesis was verified in a large breast cancer cohort showing correlation with shorter relapse-free survival. RNAi and chemical inhibition of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway reduced mammosphere formation, which could be rescued by a downstream metabolite. Our findings identify the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway as central for CSC propagation and a potential therapeutic target, as well as providing a mechanistic explanation for the therapeutic benefit of statins in breast cancer.
PXD010379	31242426	Small Extracellular Vesicles Are Key Regulators of Non-cell Autonomous Intercellular Communication in Senescence via the Interferon Protein IFITM3. 	Exosomes and small microvesicles are key regulators of non-cell autonomous intercellular communication in senescence	DDIS, EV, IFITM3, OIS, aging, exosomes, label free, paracrine senescence, small extracellular vesicles, tumour suppressor	Senescence is a cellular phenotype present in health and disease, characterized by a stable cell-cycle arrest and an inflammatory response called senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). The SASP is important in influencing the behavior of neighboring cells and altering the microenvironment; yet, this role has been mainly attributed to soluble factors. Here, we show that both the soluble factors and small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) are capable of transmitting paracrine senescence to nearby cells. Analysis of individual cells internalizing sEVs, using a Cre-reporter system, show a positive correlation between sEV uptake and senescence activation. We find an increase in the number of multivesicular bodies during senescence in vivo. sEV protein characterization by mass spectrometry (MS) followed by a functional siRNA screen identify interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) as being partially responsible for transmitting senescence to normal cells. We find that sEVs contribute to paracrine senescence.
PXD012914	31244211	An Ovarian Protein Involved in Passive Avoidance of an Endoparasitoid To Evade Its Host Immune Response. 	Cotesia chilonis ovarian proteins	Cotesia chilonis, ovarian proteins, parasitoid	Through a combination of transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, we identified 817 secreted ovarian proteins from an endoparasitoid wasp, Cotesia chilonis, of which five proteins are probably involved in passive evasion. The results of an encapsulation assay revealed that one of these passive evasion-associated proteins (Crp32B), a homologue of a 32-kDa protein (Crp32) from C. rubecula, could protect resin beads from being encapsulated by host hemocytes in a dose-dependent manner. Crp32B is transcribed in ovarian cells, nurse cells, follicular cells, and oocytes, and the protein is located throughout the ovary and on the egg surface. Moreover, Crp32B has antigenic similarity to several host components. These results indicate that C. chilonis may use molecular mimicry as a mechanism to avoid host cellular immune response.
PXD012945	31244213	Assembly of Proteins by Free RNA during the Early Phase of Proteostasis Stress. 	Free mRNA interactome upon heat shock in Hela cells	RNA granules, mRNA, proteostasis stress, stress granules	At any stage of their lifecycle, mRNAs are coated by specialized proteins. One of few circumstances when free mRNA appears in the cytosol is the disassembly of polysomes during the stress-induced shutdown of protein synthesis. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we sought to identify the free RNA-interacting cellular machinery in heat-shocked mammalian cells. Free RNA-associated proteins displayed higher disorder and larger size, which supports the role of multivalent interactions during the initial phase of the association with RNAs during stress. Structural features of the free RNA interactors defined them as a subset of RNA-binding proteins. The interaction between these assembled proteins in vivo required RNA. Reconstitution of the association process in vitro indicated a multimolecular basis for increased binding to RNA upon heat shock in the cytosol. Our study represents a step toward understanding how free RNA is processed in the cytosol during proteostasis stress.
PXD007813	31244650	Early-Onset Molecular Derangements in the Olfactory Bulb of Tg2576 Mice: Novel Insights Into the Stress-Responsive Olfactory Kinase Dynamics in Alzheimer's Disease. 	Time-dependent olfactory  proteomics in Tg2576 mice	Alzheimer, olfactory bulb	The olfactory bulb (OB) is the first processing station in the olfactory pathway. Despite smell impairment, which is considered an early event in Alzheimer's disease (AD), little is known about the initial molecular disturbances that accompany the AD development at olfactory level. We have interrogated the time-dependent OB molecular landscape in Tg2576 AD mice prior to the appearance of neuropathological amyloid plaques (2-, and 6-month-old), using combinatorial omics analysis. The metabolic modulation induced by overproduction of human mutated amyloid precursor protein (APP) clearly differs between both time points. Besides the progressive perturbation of the APP interactome, functional network analysis unveiled an inverse regulation of downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) routes in 2-month-old Tg2576 mice with respect to wild-type (WT) mice. In contrast, Akt and MAPK kinase 4 (SEK1)/ stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) axis were parallel activated in the OB of 6-months-old-Tg2576 mice. Furthermore, a survival kinome profiling performed during the aging process (2-, 6-, and 18-month-old) revealed that olfactory APP overexpression leads to changes in the activation dynamics of protein kinase A (PKA), and SEK1/MKK4-SAPK/JNK between 6 and 18 months of age, when memory deficits appear and AD pathology is well established in transgenic mice. Interestingly, both olfactory pathways were differentially activated in a stage-dependent manner in human sporadic AD subjects with different neuropathological grading. Taken together, our data reflect the early impact of mutated APP on the OB molecular homeostasis, highlighting the progressive modulation of specific signaling pathways during the olfactory amyloidogenic pathology.
PXD012957	31245515	Outlining the Grb2 interactome data and its interacting partners in HEK293 cells in absence and presence of epidermal growth factor. 	Grb2 interactome data with and without EGF stimulation	AP-MS, EGF, Grb2, Interactome, SILAC	Growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2) is an adaptor protein involved in the signal transduction pathways. This dataset enlists proteins which interact with Grb2 in the presence and absence of a mitogenic stimulus. Grb2 expressing HEK293 cells were cultured in light and heavy labeled SILAC media. Normal lysine and arginine were incorporated as light labels while 8 and 10 Da heavier labels of respective isotopes were used for heavy labeling. While light labeled cells were used to enrich basal Grb2 interactome, the heavy labeled cells were stimulated in presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to investigate the altered Grb2 interactome dynamics. Equal number of EGF stimulated and non-stimulated cells was pooled, lysed and subjected to affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry (AP-MS). The variety of Grb2 protein partners changed as a consequence of EGF stimulation. Additionally, SILAC labeling helped in quantitative estimation of altered association of a few interactors with the bait protein. Data are available via PRIDE repository with the dataset identifier PXD012957 (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/projects/PXD012957).
PXD008193	31246970	Enhanced trypsin on a budget: Stabilization, purification and high-temperature application of inexpensive commercial trypsin for proteomics applications. 	A method for producing heat-stable and pure trypsin	Dimethylation, LC-MS, Trypsin	Trypsin is by far the most commonly used protease in proteomics. Even though the amount of protease used in each experiment is very small, digestion of large amounts of protein prior to enrichment can be rather costly. The price of commercial trypsin is highly dependent on the quality of the enzyme, which is determined by its purity, activity, and chemical modifications. In this study we evaluated several strategies for improving the quality of crude trypsin by reductive methylation and affinity purification. We present a protocol applicable to most proteomics laboratories for obtaining a highly stable and pure trypsin preparation using reductive methylation and purification by benzamidine-sepharose. The entire workflow can be performed within a day and yields ~4 mg per batch but is completely scalable. The methylated product was benchmarked against sequencing grade trypsin from Promega and they were found to be comparable for one hour digestions at elevated temperatures, where residual chymotryptic activity was found to be negligible.
PXD012744	31247731	Accurate Precursor Mass Assignment Improves Peptide Identification in Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry. 	DIA data analysis with unambiguously determined precursor mass	DIA, Precursor mass	Proteomics research today no longer simply seeks exhaustive protein identification; increasingly, it is also desirable to obtain robust, large-scale quantitative information. To accomplish this, data-independent acquisition (DIA) has emerged as a promising strategy largely owing to developments in advanced mass spectrometers and sophisticated data analysis methods. Nevertheless, the highly complex multiplexed MS/MS spectra produced by DIA remain challenging to interpret. Here, we present a novel strategy to analyze DIA data, based on unambiguous precursor mass assignment through the mPE-MMR (multiplexed post-experimental monoisotopic mass refinement) procedure and combined with complementary multistage database searching. Compared to conventional spectral library searching, the accuracy and sensitivity of peptide identification were significantly increased by incorporating precise precursor masses in DIA data. We demonstrate identification of additional peptides absent from spectral libraries, including sample-specific mutated peptides and post-translationally modified peptides using MS-GF+ and MODa/MODi multistage database searching. This first use of unambiguously determined precursor masses to mine DIA data demonstrates considerable potential for further exploitation of this type of experimental data.
PXD013759	31248990	Defining the NSD2 interactome: PARP1 PARylation reduces NSD2 histone methyltransferase activity and impedes chromatin binding. 	Defining the NSD2 interactome: PARP1 PARylation reduces NSD2 histone methyltransferase activity and impedes chromatin binding	BioID, NSD2, interacting partners, label-free proteomics, multiple myeloma	NSD2 is a histone methyltransferase that specifically dimethylates histone H3 lysine 36 (H3K36me2), a modification associated with gene activation. Dramatic overexpression of NSD2 in t(4;14) multiple myeloma (MM) and an activating mutation of NSD2 discovered in acute lymphoblastic leukemia are significantly associated with altered gene activation, transcription, and DNA damage repair. The partner proteins through which NSD2 may influence critical cellular processes remain poorly defined. In this study, we utilized proximity-based labeling (BioID) combined with label-free quantitative MS to identify high confidence NSD2 interacting partners in MM cells. The top 24 proteins identified were involved in maintaining chromatin structure, transcriptional regulation, RNA pre-spliceosome assembly, and DNA damage. Among these, an important DNA damage regulator, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1), was discovered. PARP1 and NSD2 have been found to be recruited to DNA double strand breaks upon damage and H3K36me2 marks are enriched at damage sites. We demonstrate that PARP1 regulates NSD2 via PARylation upon oxidative stress. In vitro assays suggest the PARylation significantly reduces NSD2 histone methyltransferase activity. Furthermore, PARylation of NSD2 inhibits its ability to bind to nucleosomes and further get recruited at NSD2-regulated genes, suggesting PARP1 regulates NSD2 localization and H3K36me2 balance. This work provides clear evidence of cross-talk between PARylation and histone methylation and offers new directions to characterize NSD2 function in DNA damage response, transcriptional regulation, and other pathways.
PXD007657	31249104	Multi-omics Biomarker Pipeline Reveals Elevated Levels of Protein-glutamine Gamma-glutamyltransferase 4 in Seminal Plasma of Prostate Cancer Patients. 	Multi-omics biomarker pipeline reveals elevated levels of protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase 4 in seminal plasma of prostate cancer patients	TGM4, biomarker discovery, prostate cancer, protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase 4, selected reaction monitoring, seminal plasma	Seminal plasma, because of its proximity to prostate, is a promising fluid for biomarker discovery and noninvasive diagnostics. In this study, we investigated if seminal plasma proteins could increase diagnostic specificity of detecting primary prostate cancer and discriminate between high- and low-grade cancers. To select 147 most promising biomarker candidates, we combined proteins identified through five independent experimental or data mining approaches: tissue transcriptomics, seminal plasma proteomics, cell line secretomics, tissue specificity, and androgen regulation. A rigorous biomarker development pipeline based on selected reaction monitoring assays was designed to evaluate the most promising candidates. As a result, we qualified 76, and verified 19 proteins in seminal plasma of 67 negative biopsy and 152 prostate cancer patients. Verification revealed a prostate-specific, secreted and androgen-regulated protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase 4 (TGM4), which predicted prostate cancer on biopsy and outperformed age and serum Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA). A machine-learning approach for data analysis provided improved multi-marker combinations for diagnosis and prognosis. In the independent verification set measured by an in-house immunoassay, TGM4 protein was upregulated 3.7-fold (p = 0.006) and revealed AUC = 0.66 for detecting prostate cancer on biopsy for patients with serum PSA >=4 ng/ml and age >=50. Very low levels of TGM4 (120 pg/ml) were detected in blood serum. Collectively, our study demonstrated rigorous evaluation of one of the remaining and not well-explored prostate-specific proteins within the medium-abundance proteome of seminal plasma. Performance of TGM4 warrants its further investigation within the distinct genomic subtypes and evaluation for the inclusion into emerging multi-biomarker panels.
PXD006001	31251020	Low-Background Acyl-Biotinyl Exchange Largely Eliminates the Coisolation of Non-S-Acylated Proteins and Enables Deep S-Acylproteomic Analysis. 	Proteome-wide characterization of human S-acylated proteins	Palmitoylation, S-acylation, motif, proteome-wide, site	Protein S-acylation (also called palmitoylation) is a common post-translational modification whose deregulation plays a key role in the pathogenesis of many diseases. Acyl-biotinyl exchange (ABE), a widely used method for the enrichment of S-acylated proteins, has the potential of capturing the entire S-acylproteome in any type of biological sample. Here, we showed that current ABE methods suffer from a high background arising from the coisolation of non-S-acylated proteins. The background can be substantially reduced by an additional blockage of residual free cysteine residues with 2,2'-dithiodipyridine prior to the biotin-HPDP reaction. Coupling the low-background ABE (LB-ABE) method with label-free proteomics, 2 895 high-confidence candidate S-acylated proteins (including 1 591 known S-acylated proteins) were identified from human prostate cancer LNCaP cells, representing so-far the largest S-acylproteome data set identified in a single study. Immunoblotting analysis confirmed the S-acylation of five known and five novel prostate cancer-related S-acylated proteins in LNCaP cells and suggested that their S-acylation levels were about 0.6-1.8%. In summary, the LB-ABE method largely eliminates the coisolation of non-S-acylated proteins and enables deep S-acylproteomic analysis. It is expected to facilitate a much more comprehensive and accurate quantification of S-acylproteomes than previous ABE methods.
PXD010770	31253082	Decoding the proteomic changes involved in the biofilm formation of Enterococcus faecalis SK460 to elucidate potential biofilm determinants. 	Quantitative proteome analysis of Enterococcus faecalis SK460 during planktonic and biofilm stages	Enterococcus faecalis SK460, biofilm, planktonic	BACKGROUND: Enterococcus faecalis is a major clinically relevant nosocomial bacterial pathogen frequently isolated from polymicrobial infections. The biofilm forming ability of E. faecalis attributes a key role in its virulence and drug resistance. Biofilm cells are phenotypically and metabolically different from their planktonic counterparts and many aspects involved in E. faecalis biofilm formation are yet to be elucidated. The strain E. faecalis SK460 used in the present study is esp (Enterococcal surface protein) and fsr (two-component signal transduction system) negative non-gelatinase producing strong biofilm former isolated from a chronic diabetic foot ulcer patient. We executed a label-free quantitative proteomic approach to elucidate the differential protein expression pattern at planktonic and biofilm stages of SK460 to come up with potential determinants associated with Enterococcal biofilm formation. RESULTS: The Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses of proteomic data revealed that biofilm cells expressed higher levels of proteins which are associated with glycolysis, amino acid biosynthesis, biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, microbial metabolism in diverse environments and stress response factors. Besides these basic survival pathways, LuxS-mediated quorum sensing, arginine metabolism, rhamnose biosynthesis, pheromone and adhesion associated proteins were found to be upregulated during the biofilm transit from planktonic stages. The selected subsets were validated by quantitative real-time PCR. In silico functional interaction analysis revealed that the genes involved in upregulated pathways pose a close molecular interaction thereby coordinating the regulatory network to thrive as a biofilm community. CONCLUSIONS: The present study describes the first report of the quantitative proteome analysis of an esp and fsr negative non gelatinase producing E. faecalis. Proteome analysis evidenced enhanced expression of glycolytic pathways, stress response factors, LuxS quorum signaling system, rhamnopolysaccharide synthesis and pheromone associated proteins in biofilm phenotype. We also pointed out the relevance of LuxS quorum sensing and pheromone associated proteins in the biofilm development of E. faecalis which lacks the Fsr quorum signaling system. These validated biofilm determinants can act as potential inhibiting targets in Enterococcal infections.
PXD009012	31253590	ARIH2 Is a Vif-Dependent Regulator of CUL5-Mediated APOBEC3G Degradation in HIV Infection. 	ARIH2 is a novel Vif-dependent regulator of CUL5-mediated APOBEC3G degradation in HIV infection	AP-MS, ARIH2, CUL5, Cullin RING E3 ligases, HIV, host-virus interactions	The Cullin-RING E3 ligase (CRL) family is commonly hijacked by pathogens to redirect the host ubiquitin proteasome machinery to specific targets. During HIV infection, CRL5 is hijacked by HIV Vif to target viral restriction factors of the APOBEC3 family for ubiquitination and degradation. Here, using a quantitative proteomics approach, we identify the E3 ligase ARIH2 as a regulator of CRL5-mediated APOBEC3 degradation. The CUL5(Vif/CBFbeta) complex recruits ARIH2 where it acts to transfer ubiquitin directly to the APOBEC3 targets. ARIH2 is essential for CRL5-dependent HIV infectivity in primary CD4(+) T cells. Furthermore, we show that ARIH2 cooperates with CRL5 to prime other cellular substrates for polyubiquitination, suggesting this may represent a general mechanism beyond HIV infection and APOBEC3 degradation. Taken together, these data identify ARIH2 as a co-factor in the Vif-hijacked CRL5 complex that contributes to HIV infectivity and demonstrate the operation of the E1-E2-E3/E3-substrate ubiquitination mechanism in a viral infection context.
PXD008655	31253657	Identification of Salivary Biomarkers for Oral Cancer Detection with Untargeted and Targeted Quantitative Proteomics Approaches. 	Identification of salivary biomarkers for oral cancer with quantitative proteomics and two-phase verifying approaches	ELISA, MRM-MS, oral cancer, quantitative proteomics, salivary biomarker	Oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide. In Taiwan, OSCC is the fifth leading cause of cancer-related mortality and leads to 2800 deaths per year. The poor outcome of OSCC patients is principally ascribed to the fact that this disease is often advanced at the time of diagnosis, suggesting that early detection of OSCC is urgently needed. Analysis of cancer-related body fluids is one promising approach to identify biomarker candidates of cancers. To identify OSCC biomarkers, salivary proteomes of OSCC patients, individuals with oral potentially malignant disorders (OPMDs), and healthy volunteers were comparatively profiled with isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based mass spectrometry (MS). The salivary levels of 67 and 18 proteins in the OSCC group are elevated and decreased compared with that in the noncancerous group (OPMD and healthy groups), respectively. The candidate biomarkers were further selected using the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM)-MS and validated with the immunoassays. More importantly, the higher salivary level of three proteins, complement factor H (CFH), fibrinogen alpha chain (FGA), and alpha-1-antitrypsin (SERPINA1) was correlated with advanced stages of OSCC. Our results indicate that analysis of salivary proteome is a feasible strategy for biomarker discovery, and the three proteins are potential salivary markers for OSCC diagnosis.
PXD013947	31253769	Structural basis of TFIIH activation for nucleotide excision repair. 	Structural basis of TFIIH activation for nucleotide excision repair	BS3 cross-linking, NER pathway	Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is the major DNA repair pathway that removes UV-induced and bulky DNA lesions. There is currently no structure of NER intermediates, which form around the large multisubunit transcription factor IIH (TFIIH). Here we report the cryo-EM structure of an NER intermediate containing TFIIH and the NER factor XPA. Compared to its transcription conformation, the TFIIH structure is rearranged such that its ATPase subunits XPB and XPD bind double- and single-stranded DNA, consistent with their translocase and helicase activities, respectively. XPA releases the inhibitory kinase module of TFIIH, displaces a 'plug' element from the DNA-binding pore in XPD, and together with the NER factor XPG stimulates XPD activity. Our results explain how TFIIH is switched from a transcription to a repair factor, and provide the basis for a mechanistic analysis of the NER pathway.
PXD012728	31253788	Quantification of epitope abundance reveals the effect of direct and cross-presentation on influenza CTL responses. 	Direct quantification of viral epitope abundance reveals the importance of direct and cross-presentation in driving CTL responses during influenza infection	MHC, MRM, SRM, influenza, peptide	The magnitude of T cell responses to infection is a function of the naive T cell repertoire combined with the context and duration of antigen presentation. Using mass spectrometry, we identify and quantify 21 class 1 MHC-restricted influenza A virus (IAV)-peptides following either direct or cross-presentation. All these peptides, including seven novel epitopes, elicit T cell responses in infected C57BL/6 mice. Directly presented IAV epitopes maintain their relative abundance across distinct cell types and reveal a broad range of epitope abundances. In contrast, cross-presented epitopes are more uniform in abundance. We observe a clear disparity in the abundance of the two key immunodominant IAV antigens, wherein direct infection drives optimal nucleoprotein (NP)366-374 presentation, while cross-presentation is optimal for acid polymerase (PA)224-233 presentation. The study demonstrates how assessment of epitope abundance in both modes of antigen presentation is necessary to fully understand the immunogenicity and response magnitude to T cell epitopes.
PXD013480	31253801	WDFY2 restrains matrix metalloproteinase secretion and cell invasion by controlling VAMP3-dependent recycling. 	WDFY2 restrains matrix metalloproteinase secretion and cell invasion by controlling VAMP3-dependent recycling	PtdIns3P, VAMP3, WDFY2, cell invasion, endosome, recycling	Cancer cells secrete matrix metalloproteinases to remodel the extracellular matrix, which enables them to overcome tissue barriers and form metastases. The membrane-bound matrix metalloproteinase MT1-MMP (MMP14) is internalized by endocytosis and recycled in endosomal compartments. It is largely unknown how endosomal sorting and recycling of MT1-MMP are controlled. Here, we show that the endosomal protein WDFY2 controls the recycling of MT1-MMP. WDFY2 localizes to endosomal tubules by binding to membranes enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PtdIns3P). We identify the v-SNARE VAMP3 as an interaction partner of WDFY2. WDFY2 knockout causes a strong redistribution of VAMP3 into small vesicles near the plasma membrane. This is accompanied by increased, VAMP3-dependent secretion of MT1-MMP, enhanced degradation of extracellular matrix, and increased cell invasion. WDFY2 is frequently lost in metastatic cancers, most predominantly in ovarian and prostate cancer. We propose that WDFY2 acts as a tumor suppressor by serving as a gatekeeper for VAMP3 recycling.
PXD009793	31253978	Rational targeting of a NuRD subcomplex guided by comprehensive in situ mutagenesis. 	Critical Vulnerabilities of the NuRD Complex for Fetal Hemoglobin Control	MTA2 BioID CHD4	Developmental silencing of fetal globins serves as both a paradigm of spatiotemporal gene regulation and an opportunity for therapeutic intervention of beta-hemoglobinopathy. The nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) chromatin complex participates in gamma-globin repression. We used pooled CRISPR screening to disrupt NuRD protein coding sequences comprehensively in human adult erythroid precursors. Essential for fetal hemoglobin (HbF) control is a non-redundant subcomplex of NuRD protein family paralogs, whose composition we corroborated by affinity chromatography and proximity labeling mass spectrometry proteomics. Mapping top functional guide RNAs identified key protein interfaces where in-frame alleles resulted in loss-of-function due to destabilization or altered function of subunits. We ascertained mutations of CHD4 that dissociate its requirement for cell fitness from HbF repression in both primary human erythroid precursors and transgenic mice. Finally we demonstrated that sequestering CHD4 from NuRD phenocopied these mutations. These results indicate a generalizable approach to discover protein complex features amenable to rational biochemical targeting.
PXD012747	31257072	Anti-tumor Activity of the Type I PRMT Inhibitor, GSK3368715, Synergizes with PRMT5 Inhibition through MTAP Loss. 	Changes in protein arginine methylation by GSK3368712	Antibody, Arginine methyltransferases, Cancer cell lines, Immunoproteomic, MethylScan, Type I PRMT	Type I protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) catalyze asymmetric dimethylation of arginines on proteins. Type I PRMTs and their substrates have been implicated in human cancers, suggesting inhibition of type I PRMTs may offer a therapeutic approach for oncology. The current report describes GSK3368715 (EPZ019997), a potent, reversible type I PRMT inhibitor with anti-tumor effects in human cancer models. Inhibition of PRMT5, the predominant type II PRMT, produces synergistic cancer cell growth inhibition when combined with GSK3368715. Interestingly, deletion of the methylthioadenosine phosphorylase gene (MTAP) results in accumulation of the metabolite 2-methylthioadenosine, an endogenous inhibitor of PRMT5, and correlates with sensitivity to GSK3368715 in cell lines. These data provide rationale to explore MTAP status as a biomarker strategy for patient selection.
PXD013034	31257153	Epstein-Barr-Virus-Induced One-Carbon Metabolism Drives B Cell Transformation. 	Epstein-Barr Virus Induced One-Carbon Metabolism Drives B-Cell Transformation	Epstein-Barr virus, herpesvirus, host-pathogen interaction, one-carbon metabolism, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tag	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) causes Burkitt, Hodgkin, and post-transplant B cell lymphomas. How EBV remodels metabolic pathways to support rapid B cell outgrowth remains largely unknown. To gain insights, primary human B cells were profiled by tandem-mass-tag-based proteomics at rest and at nine time points after infection; >8,000 host and 29 viral proteins were quantified, revealing mitochondrial remodeling and induction of one-carbon (1C) metabolism. EBV-encoded EBNA2 and its target MYC were required for upregulation of the central mitochondrial 1C enzyme MTHFD2, which played key roles in EBV-driven B cell growth and survival. MTHFD2 was critical for maintaining elevated NADPH levels in infected cells, and oxidation of mitochondrial NADPH diminished B cell proliferation. Tracing studies underscored contributions of 1C to nucleotide synthesis, NADPH production, and redox defense. EBV upregulated import and synthesis of serine to augment 1C flux. Our results highlight EBV-induced 1C as a potential therapeutic target and provide a new paradigm for viral onco-metabolism.
PXD012965	31257184	Divergent Polypharmacology-Driven Cellular Activity of Structurally Similar Multi-Kinase Inhibitors through Cumulative Effects on Individual Targets. 	Divergent polypharmacology-driven cellular activity of structurally similar multi-kinase inhibitors through cumulative differential effects on individual targets: ABPP	ABPP, Cabozantinib, Foretinib, Lung Cancer, Polypharmacology	Despite recent successes of precision and immunotherapies there is a persisting need for novel targeted or multi-targeted approaches in complex diseases. Through a systems pharmacology approach, including phenotypic screening, chemical and phosphoproteomics, and RNA-seq, we elucidated the targets and mechanisms underlying the differential anticancer activity of two structurally related multi-kinase inhibitors, foretinib, and cabozantinib, in lung cancer cells. Biochemical and cellular target validation using probe molecules and RNAi revealed a polypharmacology mechanism involving MEK1/2, FER, and AURKB, which were each more potently inhibited by foretinib than cabozantinib. Based on this, we developed a synergistic combination of foretinib with barasertib, a more potent AURKB inhibitor, for MYC-amplified small-cell lung cancer. This systems pharmacology approach showed that small structural changes of drugs can cumulatively, through multiple targets, result in pronounced anticancer activity differences and that detailed mechanistic understanding of polypharmacology can enable repurposing opportunities for cancers with unmet medical need.
PXD012974	31258150	[Comparative analysis of post-translational modifications in plasma proteome of patients with cerebral ischemia based on HPLC-MS/MS method]. 	comparative proteomic analysis without a label based on the technology of tandem HPLC - MS/MS	Liquid Chromatography and Mass Spectrometry, Orbitrap, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, blood plasma proteome, cerebral ischemia, post-translational modifications of proteins	The relative differences between post-translational modifications (PTM) of proteins in blood plasma samples of patients with cerebral ischemia (CI) and healthy people were investigated using of the method of label-free comparative proteomic analysis based on the technology of tandem HPLC-MS/MS. For PTM detection we used multiple MS/MS search in the database Mascot for variable PTM and Progenesis LS-MS software. In the CI plasma samples, we observed an increase in the proportion of peptides with such PTM as phosphorylation of serine, threonine, and tyrosine, acetylation of lysine and protein N-term, ubiquitination of lysine and deamidation of glutamine related to clinically significant processes were revealed.
PXD013305	31261866	The Effects of Spaceflight Factors on the Human Plasma Proteome, Including Both Real Space Missions and Ground-Based Experiments. 	THE EFFECTS OF SPACE FLIGHT FACTORS ON THE HUMAN PLASMA PROTEOME, INCLUDING BOTH REAL SPACE MISSIONS AND GROUND-BASED MODEL EXPERIMENTS.	astronauts, dry immersion, extreme conditions, ground-base experiments, head down bed rest, mass-spectrometry, spaceflight	The aim of the study was to compare proteomic data on the effects of spaceflight factors on the human body, including both real space missions and ground-based experiments. LC-MS/MS-based proteomic analysis of blood plasma samples obtained from 13 cosmonauts before and after long-duration (169-199 days) missions on the International Space Station (ISS) and for five healthy men included in 21-day-long head-down bed rest (HDBR) and dry immersion experiments were performed. The semi-quantitative label-free analysis revealed significantly changed proteins: 19 proteins were significantly different on the first (+1) day after landing with respect to background levels; 44 proteins significantly changed during HDBR and 31 changed in the dry immersion experiment. Comparative analysis revealed nine common proteins (A1BG, A2M, SERPINA1, SERPINA3, SERPING1, SERPINC1, HP, CFB, TF), which changed their levels after landing, as well as in both ground-based experiments. Common processes, such as platelet degranulation, hemostasis, post-translational protein phosphorylation and processes of protein metabolism, indicate common pathogenesis in ground experiments and during spaceflight. Dissimilarity in the lists of significantly changed proteins could be explained by the differences in the dynamics of effective development in the ground-based experiments. Data are available via ProteomeXchange using the identifier PXD013305.
PXD012850	31262178	Pathologic Alterations in the Proteome of Synaptosomes from a Mouse Model of Spinal Muscular Atrophy. 	Pathologic alteration in the proteome of synaptosomes from the mouse model of spinal muscular atrophy	Label-free, SMA, Synapt, ion-mobility, synaptosomes	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a human genetic disorder characterized by muscle weakness, muscle atrophy, and death of motor neurons. SMA is caused by mutations or deletions in a gene called survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1). SMN1 is a housekeeping gene, but the most prominent pathologies in SMA are atrophy of myofibers and death of motor neurons. Further, degeneration of neuromuscular junctions, of synapses, and of axonal regions are features of SMA disease. Here, we have investigated the proteome dynamics of central synapses in P14 Smn2B/- mice, a model of SMA. Label-free quantitative proteomics on isolated synaptosomes from spinal cords of these animals identified 2030 protein groups. Statistical data analysis revealed 65 specific alterations in the proteome of the central synapses at the early onset stage of disease. Functional analysis of the dysregulated proteins indicated a significant enrichment of proteins associated with mitochondrial dynamics, cholesterol biogenesis, and protein clearance. These pathways represent potential targets for therapy development with the goal of providing stability to the central synapses, thereby preserving neuronal integrity in the context of SMA disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012850.
PXD014264	31262714	Biosynthetic homeostasis and resilience of the complement system in health and infectious disease. 	Targeted MRM assay Complement System in Health and Infectious Disease	C-reactive protein (CRP), clusterin, complement system, infectious disease, multiple reaction monitoring (MRM), targeted mass spectrometry	BACKGROUND: The complement system is a central component of the innate immune system. Constitutive biosynthesis of complement proteins is essential for homeostasis. Dysregulation as a consequence of genetic or environmental cues can lead to inflammatory syndromes or increased susceptibility to infection. However, very little is known about steady state levels in children or its kinetics during infection. METHODS: With a newly developed multiplex mass spectrometry-based method we analyzed the levels of 32 complement proteins in healthy individuals and in a group of pediatric patients infected with bacterial or viral pathogens. FINDINGS: In plasma from young infants we found reduced levels of C4BP, ficolin-3, factor B, classical pathway components C1QA, C1QB, C1QC, C1R, and terminal pathway components C5, C8, C9, as compared to healthy adults; whereas the majority of complement regulating (inhibitory) proteins reach adult levels at very young age. Both viral and bacterial infections in children generally lead to a slight overall increase in complement levels, with some exceptions. The kinetics of complement levels during invasive bacterial infections only showed minor changes, except for a significant increase and decrease of CRP and clusterin, respectively. INTERPRETATION: The combination of lower levels of activating and higher levels of regulating complement proteins, would potentially raise the threshold of activation, which might lead to suppressed complement activation in the first phase of life. There is hardly any measurable complement consumption during bacterial or viral infection. Altogether, expression of the complement proteins appears surprisingly stable, which suggests that the system is continuously replenished. FUND: European Union's Horizon 2020, project PERFORM, grant agreement No. 668303.
PXD013194	31262780	Proximity proteomics of endothelial Weibel-Palade bodies identifies novel regulator of von Willebrand factor secretion. 	Proximity proteomics of endothelial Weibel-Palade bodies identifies novel regulator of VWF secretion	Weibel-Palade bodies, biotinylation, endothelial cells, proximity labeling, von-Willebrand factor	Weibel-Palade bodies (WPB) are unique secretory organelles of endothelial cells that store factors regulating vascular hemostasis and local inflammation. Endothelial activation triggers rapid exocytosis of WPB, leading to the surface presentation of adhesion molecules relevant for leukocyte rolling (P-selectin) and platelet capture (von Willebrand factor [VWF]). Despite its role as an important secretory organelle, a comprehensive compilation of factors associated with WPB has not been carried out. We addressed this via a proximity proteomics approach employing the peroxidase APEX2 coupled with 2 known WPB-associated proteins: the Rab GTPases Rab3b and Rab27a. We show that APEX2-Rab3b/27a fusion constructs are correctly targeted to WPB of primary endothelial cells, and that proteins in their close proximity can be biotinylated through the WPB-recruited APEX2. Mass spectrometry analysis of the biotinylated proteins identified 183 WPB-associated proteins. Whereas these include factors reported before to localize to WPB, the majority comprises proteins not previously associated with WPB biology. Among them, the SNARE-interacting protein Munc13-2 was shown here to specifically localize to WPB and to serve as a novel factor promoting histamine-evoked WPB exocytosis and VWF secretion. Thus, APEX2-based proximity proteomics can be used to specifically identify novel organelle-associated factors in primary endothelial cells.
PXD013016	31264742	Interactions between Transport Protein Particle (TRAPP) complexes and Rab GTPases in Arabidopsis. 	Interactions between Transport Protein Particle (TRAPP) complexes and Rab GTPases in Arabidopsis	Co-IP, Rab GTPases, TRAPPII, Transport Protein Particle, protein complex	Transport Protein Particle II (TRAPPII) is essential for exocytosis, endocytosis, protein sorting and cytokinesis. In spite of a considerable understanding of its biological role, little information is known about Arabidopsis TRAPPII complex topology and molecular function. In this study, independent proteomic approaches initiated with TRAPP components or Rab-A GTPase variants converge on the TRAPPII complex. We show that the Arabidopsis genome encodes the full complement of 13 TRAPPC subunits, including four previously unidentified components. A dimerization model is proposed to account for binary interactions between TRAPPII subunits. Preferential binding to dominant negative (GDP-bound) versus wild-type or constitutively active (GTP-bound) RAB-A2a variants discriminates between TRAPPII and TRAPPIII subunits and shows that Arabidopsis complexes differ from yeast but resemble metazoan TRAPP complexes. Analyzes of Rab-A mutant variants in trappii backgrounds provide genetic evidence that TRAPPII functions upstream of RAB-A2a, allowing us to propose that TRAPPII is likely to behave as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for the RAB-A2a GTPase. GEFs catalyze exchange of GDP for GTP; the GTP-bound, activated, Rab then recruits a diverse local network of Rab effectors to specify membrane identity in subsequent vesicle fusion events. Understanding GEF-Rab interactions will be crucial to unravel the co-ordination of plant membrane traffic.
PXD010334	31264961	Functional cross-talk between allosteric effects of activating and inhibiting ligands underlies PKM2 regulation. 	Functional cross-talk between allosteric effects of activating and inhibiting ligands underlies PKM2 regulation.	PKM2, PRM, QExactive, SRM, quantitation	Several enzymes can simultaneously interact with multiple intracellular metabolites, however, how the allosteric effects of distinct ligands are integrated to coordinately control enzymatic activity remains poorly understood. We addressed this question using, as a model system, the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2). We show that the PKM2 activator fructose 1,6-bisphosphate (FBP) alone promotes tetramerisation and increases PKM2 activity, but addition of the inhibitor L-phenylalanine (Phe) prevents maximal activation of FBP-bound PKM2 tetramers. We developed a method, AlloHubMat, that uses eigenvalue decomposition of mutual information derived from molecular dynamics trajectories to identify residues that mediate FBP-induced allostery. Experimental mutagenesis of these residues identified PKM2 variants in which activation by FBP remains intact but cannot be attenuated by Phe. Our findings reveal residues involved in FBP-induced allostery that enable the integration of allosteric input from Phe and provide a paradigm for the coordinate regulation of enzymatic activity by simultaneous allosteric inputs.
PXD009978	31266899	Separating Golgi Proteins from Cis to Trans Reveals Underlying Properties of Cisternal Localization. 	Proteomic analysis of separated Golgi cisternae gives insights into secretory pathway organization Proteomic analysis of separated Golgi cisternae gives insights into secretory pathway organization	Proteomic analysis of separated Golgi cisternae gives insights into secretory pathway organization	The order of enzymatic activity across Golgi cisternae is essential for complex molecule biosynthesis. However, an inability to separate Golgi cisternae has meant that the cisternal distribution of most resident proteins, and their underlying localization mechanisms, are unknown. Here, we exploit differences in surface charge of intact cisternae to perform separation of early to late Golgi subcompartments. We determine protein and glycan abundance profiles across the Golgi; over 390 resident proteins are identified, including 136 new additions, with over 180 cisternal assignments. These assignments provide a means to better understand the functional roles of Golgi proteins and how they operate sequentially. Protein and glycan distributions are validated in vivo using high-resolution microscopy. Results reveal distinct functional compartmentalization among resident Golgi proteins. Analysis of transmembrane proteins shows several sequence-based characteristics relating to pI, hydrophobicity, Ser abundance, and Phe bilayer asymmetry that change across the Golgi. Overall, our results suggest that a continuum of transmembrane features, rather than discrete rules, guide proteins to earlier or later locations within the Golgi stack.
PXD013209	31266943	A molecular switch from STAT2-IRF9 to ISGF3 underlies interferon-induced gene transcription. 	Homeostatic and Interferon-induced gene expression represent different states of promoter-associated transcription factor ISGF3	BioID	Cells maintain the balance between homeostasis and inflammation by adapting and integrating the activity of intracellular signaling cascades, including the JAK-STAT pathway. Our understanding of how a tailored switch from homeostasis to a strong receptor-dependent response is coordinated remains limited. Here, we use an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic approach to analyze transcription-factor binding, gene expression and in vivo proximity-dependent labelling of proteins in living cells under homeostatic and interferon (IFN)-induced conditions. We show that interferons (IFN) switch murine macrophages from resting-state to induced gene expression by alternating subunits of transcription factor ISGF3. Whereas preformed STAT2-IRF9 complexes control basal expression of IFN-induced genes (ISG), both type I IFN and IFN-gamma cause promoter binding of a complete ISGF3 complex containing STAT1, STAT2 and IRF9. In contrast to the dogmatic view of ISGF3 formation in the cytoplasm, our results suggest a model wherein the assembly of the ISGF3 complex occurs on DNA.
PXD012472	31267741	Pharmacokinetic Analysis of a Novel Human EGFRvIII:CD3 Bispecific Antibody in Plasma and Whole Blood Using a High-Resolution Targeted Mass Spectrometry Approach. 	Pharmacokinetic analysis of a novel human EGFRvIII:CD3 bispecific antibody in plasma and whole blood using a high-resolution targeted mass spectroscopy approach	HF-X, PRM, biotherapeutic antibody, pharmacokinetics, stable isotope-labeled protein, whole blood	Bispecific single chain antibody fragments (bi-scFv) represent an emerging class of biotherapeutics. We recently developed a fully human bi-scFv (EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv) with the goal of redirecting CD3-expressing T cells to recognize and destroy malignant, EGFRvIII-expressing glioma. In mice, we showed that EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv effectively treats orthotopic patient-derived malignant glioma and syngeneic glioblastoma. Here, we developed a targeted assay for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv, a necessary step in the drug development process. Using microflow liquid chromatography coupled to a high resolution parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry, and data analysis in Skyline, we developed a bottom-up proteomic assay for quantification of EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv in both plasma and whole blood. Importantly, a protein calibrator, along with stable isotope-labeled EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv protein, were used for absolute quantification. A PK analysis in a CD3 humanized mouse revealed that EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv in plasma and whole blood has an initial half-life of ~8 min and a terminal half-life of ~2.5 h. Our results establish a sensitive, high-throughput assay for direct quantification of EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv without the need for immunoaffinity enrichment. Moreover, these pharmacokinetic parameters will guide drug optimization and dosing regimens in future IND-enabling and phase I studies of EGFRvIII:CD3 bi-scFv.
PXD013063	31267744	Prediction of an Upper Limit for the Fraction of Interprotein Cross-Links in Large-Scale In Vivo Cross-Linking Studies. 	HeLa Cells Cross-Linked In Vivo versus as a Lysate	PIR Cross-linker XL-MS	Chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry is of growing use for establishment of distance constraints on protein conformations and interactions. Whereas intraprotein cross-links can arise from proteins in isolation, interprotein cross-links reflect proximity of two interacting proteins in the sample. Prediction of expected ratios of the number of interprotein to intraprotein cross-links is hindered by lacking comprehensive knowledge on the interactome network and global occupancy levels for all interacting complex subunits. Here we determine the theoretical number of possible inter- and intraprotein cross-links in available PDB structures of proteins bound in complexes to predict a maximum expected fraction of interprotein cross-links in large scale in vivo cross-linking studies. We show how the maximum fraction can guide interpretation of reported interprotein fractions with respect to the extent of sample protein binding, comparing whole cell and lysate cross-linked samples as an example. We also demonstrate how an observation of interprotein cross-link fractions greater than the maximum value can result from the presence of false positive cross-links which are predominantly interprotein, their number estimable from the observed surplus fraction of interprotein cross-links.
PXD010168	31268533	Evolutionary Proteomics Reveals Distinct Patterns of Complexity and Divergence between Lepidopteran Sperm Morphs. 	Sperm proteome of apyrene and eupyrene sperm in Carolina Sphinx moth Manduca sexta, and monarch butterfly Danaus plexippus	Lepidoptera, manduca sexta, monarch, sperm, sperm heteromorphism	Spermatozoa are one of the most strikingly diverse animal cell types. One poorly understood example of this diversity is sperm heteromorphism, where males produce multiple distinct morphs of sperm in a single ejaculate. Typically, only one morph is capable of fertilization and the function of the nonfertilizing morph, called parasperm, remains to be elucidated. Sperm heteromorphism has multiple independent origins, including Lepidoptera (moths and butterflies), where males produce a fertilizing eupyrene sperm and an apyrene parasperm, which lacks a nucleus and nuclear DNA. Here we report a comparative proteomic analysis of eupyrene and apyrene sperm between two distantly related lepidopteran species, the monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus) and Carolina sphinx moth (Manduca sexta). In both species, we identified ~700 sperm proteins, with half present in both morphs and the majority of the remainder observed only in eupyrene sperm. Apyrene sperm thus have a distinctly less complex proteome. Gene ontology (GO) analysis revealed proteins shared between morphs tend to be associated with canonical sperm cell structures (e.g., flagellum) and metabolism (e.g., ATP production). GO terms for morph-specific proteins broadly reflect known structural differences, but also suggest a role for apyrene sperm in modulating female neurobiology. Comparative analysis indicates that proteins shared between morphs are most conserved between species as components of sperm, whereas morph-specific proteins turn over more quickly, especially in apyrene sperm. The rapid divergence of apyrene sperm content is consistent with a relaxation of selective constraints associated with fertilization and karyogamy. On the other hand, parasperm generally exhibit greater evolutionary lability, and our observations may therefore reflect adaptive responses to shifting regimes of sexual selection.
PXD011354	31268684	Supervised Learning and Mass Spectrometry Predicts the in Vivo Fate of Nanomaterials. 	Supervised learning predicts the in vivo fate of engineered nanomaterials	Nanoparticles, neural networks, predictive biology, protein corona	The surface of nanoparticles changes immediately after intravenous injection because blood proteins adsorb on the surface. How this interface changes during circulation and its impact on nanoparticle distribution within the body is not understood. Here, we developed a workflow to show that the evolution of proteins on nanoparticle surfaces predicts the biological fate of nanoparticles in vivo. This workflow involves extracting nanoparticles at multiple time points from circulation, isolating the proteins off the surface and performing proteomic mass spectrometry. The mass spectrometry protein library served as inputs, while blood clearance and organ accumulation were used as outputs to train a supervised deep neural network that predicts nanoparticle biological fate. In a double-blinded study, we tested the network by predicting nanoparticle spleen and liver accumulation with upward of 94% accuracy. Our neural network discovered that the mechanism of liver and spleen uptake is due to patterns of a multitude of nanoparticle surface adsorbed proteins. There are too many combinations to change these proteins manually using chemical or biological inhibitors to alter clearance. Therefore, we developed a technique that uses the host to act as a bioreactor to prepare nanoparticles with predictable clearance patterns that reduce liver and spleen uptake by 50% and 70%, respectively. These techniques provide opportunities to both predict nanoparticle behavior and also to engineer surface chemistries that are specifically designed by the body.
PXD013967	31269447	Histone Octamer Structure Is Altered Early in ISW2 ATP-Dependent Nucleosome Remodeling. 	Histone octamer structure is altered early in ISW2 ATP-dependent remodeling of nucleosomes	ISWI, SANT domain, chromatin remodeling, gene regulation, histones, nucleosome dynamics, nucleosome movement, nucleosome structure, transcription	Nucleosomes are the fundamental building blocks of chromatin that regulate DNA access and are composed of histone octamers. ATP-dependent chromatin remodelers like ISW2 regulate chromatin access by translationally moving nucleosomes to different DNA regions. We find that histone octamers are more pliable than previously assumed and distorted by ISW2 early in remodeling before DNA enters nucleosomes and the ATPase motor moves processively on nucleosomal DNA. Uncoupling the ATPase activity of ISW2 from nucleosome movement with deletion of the SANT domain from the C terminus of the Isw2 catalytic subunit traps remodeling intermediates in which the histone octamer structure is changed. We find restricting histone movement by chemical crosslinking also traps remodeling intermediates resembling those seen early in ISW2 remodeling with loss of the SANT domain. Other evidence shows histone octamers are intrinsically prone to changing their conformation and can be distorted merely by H3-H4 tetramer disulfide crosslinking.
PXD010623	31270210	Cyclic di-GMP co-activates the two-component transcriptional regulator DevR in Mycobacterium smegmatis in response to oxidative stress. 	Protemic analysis of the effect of c-di-GMP and c-di-AMP on the protein expression of Mycobacterium smegmatis	Mycobacterium smegmatis, c-di-AMP, c-di-GMP, iTTAQ	Cyclic di-GMP (c-di-GMP) is an important second messenger in bacteria, and its regulatory network has been extensively studied. However, information regarding the activation mechanisms of its receptors remains limited. In this study, we characterized the two-component regulator DevR as a new c-di-GMP receptor and further uncovered a novel co-activation mechanism for effective regulation of DevR in mycobacteria. We show that high c-di-GMP levels induce the expression of the devR operon in Mycobacterium smegmatis and increase mycobacterial survival under oxidative stress. The deletion of either DevR or its two-component kinase DevS significantly weakened the stimulating effect of c-di-GMP on oxidative-stress tolerance of mycobacteria. We also found that DevR senses the c-di-GMP signal through its C-terminal structure and that c-di-GMP alone does not directly affect the DNA-binding activity of DevR. Strikingly, c-di-GMP stimulated DevR phosphorylation by the kinase DevS, thereby activating DevR's DNA-binding affinity. In summary, our results indicated that c-di-GMP triggers a phosphorylation-dependent mechanism that co-activates DevR's transcriptional activity. Our findings suggest a novel paradigm for the cross-talk between c-di-GMP signaling and two-component regulatory systems that activates transcription of stress-response genes in bacteria.
PXD008796	31270324	E2F4 regulates transcriptional activation in mouse embryonic stem cells independently of the RB family. 	TRANSCRIPTIONAL ACTIVATION BY E2F4 INDEPENDENT OF THE RB FAMILY	E2F4, RB, cell cycle, embryonic stem cells, p107, p130, pluripotency	E2F transcription factors are central regulators of cell division and cell fate decisions. E2F4 often represents the predominant E2F activity in cells. E2F4 is a transcriptional repressor implicated in cell cycle arrest and whose repressive activity depends on its interaction with members of the RB family. Here we show that E2F4 is important for the proliferation and the survival of mouse embryonic stem cells. In these cells, E2F4 acts in part as a transcriptional activator that promotes the expression of cell cycle genes. This role for E2F4 is independent of the RB family. Furthermore, E2F4 functionally interacts with chromatin regulators associated with gene activation and we observed decreased histone acetylation at the promoters of cell cycle genes and E2F targets upon loss of E2F4 in RB family-mutant cells. Taken together, our findings uncover a non-canonical role for E2F4 that provide insights into the biology of rapidly dividing cells.
PXD012748	31271254	Selective Proteolysis of alpha-Lactalbumin by Endogenous Enzymes of Human Milk at Acidic pH. 	Endogenous human milk proteolysis as a function of pH	Endogenous proteolysis, Milk, Peptide, Q Exactive, pH	SCOPE: The use of human milk products is increasing for high-risk infants. Human milk contains endogenous enzymes that comprise a dynamic proteolytic system, yet biological properties of these enzymes and their activities in response to variations including pH within infants are unclear. Human milk has a neutral pH around 7, while infant gastric pH varies from 2 to 6 depending on individual conditions. This study is designed to determine the specificity of enzyme-substrate interactions in human milk as a function of pH. METHODS AND RESULTS: Endogenous proteolysis is characterized by incubating freshly expressed human milk at physiologically relevant pH ranging from 2 to 7 without the addition of exogenous enzymes. Results show that the effects of pH on endogenous proteolysis in human milk are protein-specific. Further, specific interactions between cathepsin D and alpha-lactalbumin are confirmed. The endogenous enzyme cathepsin D in human milk cleaves alpha-lactalbumin as the milk pH shifts from 7 to 3. CONCLUSIONS: This study documents that selective proteolysis activated by pH shift is a mechanism for dynamic interactions between human milk and the infant. Controlled proteolysis can guide the use of human milk products based on individual circumstance.
PXD012484	31271506	Characterization of a thaumarchaeal symbiont that drives incomplete nitrification in the tropical sponge Ianthella basta. 	Characterization of a thaumarchaeal symbiont that drives incomplete nitrification in the tropical sponge Ianthella basta	Sponge, Thaumarchaetota, ammonia-oxidizers, metaproteome, symbionts	Marine sponges represent one of the few eukaryotic groups that frequently harbour symbiotic members of the Thaumarchaeota, which are important chemoautotrophic ammonia-oxidizers in many environments. However, in most studies, direct demonstration of ammonia-oxidation by these archaea within sponges is lacking, and little is known about sponge-specific adaptations of ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA). Here, we characterized the thaumarchaeal symbiont of the marine sponge Ianthella basta using metaproteogenomics, fluorescence in situ hybridization, qPCR and isotope-based functional assays. 'Candidatus Nitrosospongia ianthellae' is only distantly related to cultured AOA. It is an abundant symbiont that is solely responsible for nitrite formation from ammonia in I. basta that surprisingly does not harbour nitrite-oxidizing microbes. Furthermore, this AOA is equipped with an expanded set of extracellular subtilisin-like proteases, a metalloprotease unique among archaea, as well as a putative branched-chain amino acid ABC transporter. This repertoire is strongly indicative of a mixotrophic lifestyle and is (with slight variations) also found in other sponge-associated, but not in free-living AOA. We predict that this feature as well as an expanded and unique set of secreted serpins (protease inhibitors), a unique array of eukaryotic-like proteins, and a DNA-phosporothioation system, represent important adaptations of AOA to life within these ancient filter-feeding animals.
PXD011391	31275266	Identification of Hanks-Type Kinase PknB-Specific Targets in the Streptococcus thermophilus Phosphoproteome. 	The Hanks-type kinase PknB, targeting the divisome, is not the single player in the Streptococcus thermophilus protein phosphorylation process	Phosphoproteome, PknB, Streptococcus thermophilus, shotgun	Protein phosphorylation especially on serine/threonine/tyrosine residues are frequent in many bacteria. This post-translational modification has been associated with pathogenicity and virulence in various species. However, only few data have been produced so far on generally recognized as safe bacteria used in food fermentations. A family of kinases known as Hanks-type kinases is suspected to be responsible for, at least, a part of these phosphorylations in eukaryotes as in bacteria. The objective of our work was to establish the first phosphoproteome of Streptococcus thermophilus, a lactic acid bacterium widely used in dairy fermentations in order to identified the proteins and pathways tagged by Ser/Thr/Tyr phosphorylations. In addition, we have evaluated the role in this process of the only Hanks-type kinase encoded in the S. thermophilus genome. We have constructed a mutant defective for the Hanks type kinase in S. thermophilus and established the proteomes and phosphoproteomes of the wild type and the mutant strains. To do that, we have enriched our samples in phosphopeptides with titane beads and used dimethyl tags to compare phosphopeptide abundances. Peptides and phosphopeptides were analyzed on a last generation LC-MS/MS system. We have identified and quantified 891 proteins representing half of the theoretical proteome. Among these proteins, 106 contained phosphorylated peptides. Various functional groups of proteins (amino acid, carbon and nucleotide metabolism, translation, cell cycle, stress response, ...) were found phosphorylated. The phosphoproteome was only weakly reduced in the Hanks-type kinase mutant indicating that this enzyme is only one of the players in the phosphorylation process. The proteins that are modified by the Hanks-type kinase mainly belong to the divisome.
PXD011345	31275533	Analysis of the Escherichia coli extracellular vesicle proteome identifies markers of purity and culture conditions. 	Analysis of the Escherichia coli membrane vesicle proteome identifies markers of purity and culture conditions	Membrane vesicles, extracellular vesicles, iron, microbe, pathogen	Bacteria release nano-sized extracellular vesicles (EVs) into the extracellular milieu. Bacterial EVs contain molecular cargo originating from the parent bacterium and have important roles in bacterial survival and pathogenesis. Using 8-plex iTRAQ approaches, we profiled the EV proteome of two Escherichia coli strains, uropathogenic (UPEC) 536 and probiotic Nissle 1917. For these strains, we compared the proteome of crude input EVs prepared by ultracentrifugation alone with EVs purified by either density gradient centrifugation (DGC) or size exclusion chromatography (SEC). We further compared the proteome of EVs from bacterial cultures that were grown in iron-restricted (R) and iron-supplemented (RF) conditions. Overall, outer membrane components were highly enriched, and bacterial inner membrane components were significantly depleted in both UPEC and Nissle EVs, in keeping with an outer membrane origin. In addition, we found enrichment of ribosome-related Gene Ontology terms in UPEC EVs and proteins involved in glycolytic processes and ligase activity in Nissle EVs. We have identified that three proteins (RbsB of UPEC in R; YoeA of UPEC in RF; BamA of Nissle in R) were consistently enriched in the DGC- and SEC-purified EV samples in comparison to their crude input EV, whereas conversely the 60 kDa chaperonin GroEL was enriched in the crude input EVs for both UPEC and Nissle in R condition. Such proteins may have utility as technical markers for assessing the purity of E. coli EV preparations. Several proteins were changed in their abundance depending on the iron availability in the media. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD011345. In summary, we have undertaken a comprehensive characterization of the protein content of E. coli EVs and found evidence of specific EV cargos for physiological activity and conserved protein cargo that may find utility as markers in the future. Abbreviation: DGC: density gradient centrifugation; DTT: 1,4-dithiothreitol; EV: extracellular vesicles; FDR: false discovery rate; GO: Gene Ontology; R: iron-restricted; RF: iron-supplemented; iTRAQ: isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation; OMV: outer membrane vesicle; SWATH-MS: sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra; SEC: size exclusion chromatography.
PXD013637	31276249	Gene modification by fast-track recombineering for cellular localization and isolation of components of plant protein complexes. 	Gene modification by fast-track recombineering for cellular localization and isolation of components of plant protein complexes	IP-MS, fast-track recombineering	To accelerate the isolation of plant protein complexes and study cellular localization and interaction of their components, an improved recombineering protocol is described for simple and fast site-directed modification of plant genes in bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs). Coding sequences of fluorescent and affinity tags were inserted into genes and transferred together with flanking genomic sequences of desired size by recombination into Agrobacterium plant transformation vectors using three steps of E. coli transformation with PCR-amplified DNA fragments. Application of fast-track recombineering is illustrated by the simultaneous labelling of CYCLIN-DEPENDENT KINASE D (CDKD) and CYCLIN H (CYCH) subunits of kinase module of TFIIH general transcription factor and the CDKD-activating CDKF;1 kinase with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and mCherry (green and red fluorescent protein) tags, and a PIPL (His18 -StrepII-HA) epitope. Functionality of modified CDKF;1 gene constructs is verified by complementation of corresponding T-DNA insertion mutation. Interaction of CYCH with all three known CDKD homologues is confirmed by their co-localization and co-immunoprecipitation. Affinity purification and mass spectrometry analyses of CDKD;2, CYCH, and DNA-replication-coupled HISTONE H3.1 validate their association with conserved TFIIH subunits and components of CHROMATIN ASSEMBLY FACTOR 1, respectively. The results document that simple modification of plant gene products with suitable tags by fast-track recombineering is well suited to promote a wide range of protein interaction and proteomics studies.
PXD014417	31279527	Identification by nano-LC-MS/MS of NT5DC2 as a protein binding to tyrosine hydroxylase: Down-regulation of NT5DC2 by siRNA increases catecholamine synthesis in PC12D cells. 	AN01_Rattus	5-nucleotidase domain-containing protein 2, GWAS, NT5DC2, Parkinson's disease, Schizophrenia, Tyrosine hydroxylase	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), which catalyzes the conversion of l-tyrosine to l-DOPA, is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of catecholamines. It is well known that both alpha-synuclein and 14-3-3 protein family members bind to the TH molecule and regulate phosphorylation of its N-terminus by kinases to control the catalytic activity. In this present study we investigated whether other proteins aside from these 2 proteins might also bind to TH molecules. Nano-LC-MS/MS analysis revealed that 5'-nucleotidase domain-containing protein 2 (NT5DC2), belonging to a family of haloacid dehalogenase-type (HAD) phosphatases, was detected in the immunoprecipitate of PC12D cell lysates that had been reacted with Dynabeads protein G-anti-TH antibody conjugate. Surprisingly, NT5DC2 had already been revealed by Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) as a gene implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, which are diseases related to the abnormality of dopamine activity in the brain, although the role that NT5DC2 plays in these diseases remains unknown. Therefore, we investigated the effect of NT5DC2 on the TH molecule. The down-regulation of NT5DC2 by siRNA increased the synthesis of catecholamines (dopamine, noradrenaline, and adrenaline) in PC12D cells. These increases might be attributed to the catalytic activity of TH and not to the intracellular stability of TH, because the intracellular content of TH assessed by Western blotting was not changed by the down-regulation of NT5DC2. Collectively, our results indicate that NT5DC2 inhibited the synthesis of dopamine by decreasing the enzymatic activity of TH.
PXD012392	31279926	Thermostable potassium channel-inhibiting neurotoxins in processed scorpion medicinal material revealed by proteomic analysis: Implications of its pharmaceutical basis in traditional Chinese medicine. 	Thermostable neurotoxins in processed scorpion medicinal material underlie its pharmaceutical basis in traditional Chinese medicine	Buthus martensii Karsch scorpion, ETD, HCD, Ion channel, Processed scorpions, Thermal degradation, Thermostable toxins, Traditional Chinese medicine, scorpion toxins	The neurotoxins of venomous scorpion act on ion channels. Whether these neurotoxins are retained in processed Buthus martensii Karsch scorpions used in traditional Chinese medicine materials is unknown. Comprehensive mass spectrometry-based proteomic characterization of functionally active toxins in the processed medicinal scorpion material revealed 22 full-length and 44 truncated thermostable potassium channel-modulatory toxins that preserved six conserved cysteine residues capable of forming the three disulfide bonds necessary for toxicity. Additionally, a broad spectrum of degraded toxin fragments was found, indicating their relative thermal instability which enabled toxicity reduction. Furthermore, the suppression of interleukin-2 (IL-2) production in Jurkat cells and the reduced delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response demonstrated that the extracts have immunoregulatory activity both in vitro and in vivo. Our work describes the first "map" of functionally active scorpion toxins in processed scorpion medicinal material, which is helpful to unveil the pharmaceutical basis of the processed scorpion medicinal material in traditional Chinese medicine. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Scorpions have been used as medicinal materials in China for more than one thousand years. This is an example of the well-known "Combat poison with poison" strategy common to traditional Chinese medicine. In the past 30 years, extensive investigations of Chinese scorpions have indicated that the neurotoxins in the scorpion venom are the main toxic components and they target various ion channels in cell membranes. However, whether these neurotoxins are retained in processed Buthus martensii Karsch scorpions used for traditional Chinese medicine remains unknown. Our study described the thermal stability and instability of potassium channel-modulatory neurotoxins in processed scorpions and helps to understand the pharmaceutical basis underling the strategy of "combat poison with poison to cure diseases".
PXD012372	31280995	Non-coding RNA Transcription in Tetrahymena Meiotic Nuclei Requires Dedicated Mediator Complex-Associated Proteins. 	 LC-MS/MS analysis of immunoprecipitation samples of Tetrahymena Mediator complex associated proteins	Emit1, Emit2, Mediator complex, Rib1, Tetrahymena thermophila	To preserve genome integrity, eukaryotic cells use small RNA-directed mechanisms to repress transposable elements (TEs). Paradoxically, in order to silence TEs, precursors of the small RNAs must be transcribed from TEs. However, it is still poorly understood how these precursors are transcribed from TEs under silenced conditions. In the otherwise transcriptionally silent germline micronucleus (MIC) of Tetrahymena, a burst of non-coding RNA (ncRNA) transcription occurs during meiosis. The transcripts are processed into small RNAs that serve to identify TE-related sequences for elimination. The Mediator complex (Med) has an evolutionarily conserved role for transcription by bridging gene-specific transcription factors and RNA polymerase II. Here, we report that three Med-associated factors, Emit1, Emit2, and Rib1, are required for the biogenesis of small ncRNAs. Med localizes to the MIC only during meiosis, and both Med localization and MIC ncRNA transcription require Emit1 and Emit2. In the MIC, Med occupies TE-rich pericentromeric and telomeric regions in a Rib1-dependent manner. Rib1 is dispensable for ncRNA transcription but is required for the accumulation of double-stranded ncRNAs. Nuclear and sub-nuclear localization of the three Med-associated proteins is interdependent. Hence, Emit1 and Emit2 act coordinately to import Med into the MIC, and Rib1 recruits Med to specific chromosomal locations to quantitatively or qualitatively promote the biogenesis of functional ncRNA. Our results underscore that the transcription machinery can be regulated by a set of specialized Med-associated proteins to temporally transcribe TE-related sequences from a silent genome for small RNA biogenesis and genome defense.
PXD011080	31281302	On the Impact of the Pangenome and Annotation Discrepancies While Building Protein Sequence Databases for Bacteria Proteogenomics. 	Building comprehensive MS-friendly databases for proteomic analysis of bacterial species of unknown genetic background	bacterial strains, databases, pangenomics, proteogenomics	In proteomics, peptide information within mass spectrometry (MS) data from a specific organism sample is routinely matched against a protein sequence database that best represent such organism. However, if the species/strain in the sample is unknown or genetically poorly characterized, it becomes challenging to determine a database which can represent such sample. Building customized protein sequence databases merging multiple strains for a given species has become a strategy to overcome such restrictions. However, as more genetic information is publicly available and interesting genetic features such as the existence of pan- and core genes within a species are revealed, we questioned how efficient such merging strategies are to report relevant information. To test this assumption, we constructed databases containing conserved and unique sequences for 10 different species. Features that are relevant for probabilistic-based protein identification by proteomics were then monitored. As expected, increase in database complexity correlates with pangenomic complexity. However, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Bordetella pertussis generated very complex databases even having low pangenomic complexity. We further tested database performance by using MS data from eight clinical strains from M. tuberculosis, and from two published datasets from Staphylococcus aureus. We show that by using an approach where database size is controlled by removing repeated identical tryptic sequences across strains/species, computational time can be reduced drastically as database complexity increases.
PXD014621	31282857	Unique-region phosphorylation targets LynA for rapid degradation, tuning its expression and signaling in myeloid cells. 	Unique-region phosphorylation targets LynA for rapid degradation, tuning its expression and signaling in myeloid cells	Degadation, Kinase, SFK LYN A, macrophage, phosphoprotein	The activity of Src-family kinases (SFKs), which phosphorylate immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs), is a critical factor regulating myeloid-cell activation. We reported previously that the SFK LynA is uniquely susceptible to rapid ubiquitin-mediated degradation in macrophages, functioning as a rheostat regulating signaling (Freedman et al., 2015). We now report the mechanism by which LynA is preferentially targeted for degradation and how cell specificity is built into the LynA rheostat. Using genetic, biochemical, and quantitative phosphopeptide analyses, we found that the E3 ubiquitin ligase c-Cbl preferentially targets LynA via a phosphorylated tyrosine (Y32) in its unique region. This distinct mode of c-Cbl recognition depresses steady-state expression of LynA in macrophages derived from mice. Mast cells, however, express little c-Cbl and have correspondingly high LynA. Upon activation, mast-cell LynA is not rapidly degraded, and SFK-mediated signaling is amplified relative to macrophages. Cell-specific c-Cbl expression thus builds cell specificity into the LynA checkpoint.
PXD012284	31282946	Proteomics Highlights Common and Distinct Pathophysiological Processes Associated with Ileal and Colonic Ulcers in Crohn's Disease. 	Common and distinct pathophysiological processes associated to ileal and colonic ulcers in Crohn's disease	Crohn's disease, colon, ileum, ulcer	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Based on genetics and natural history, Crohn's disease can be separated into two entities, an ileal and a colonic disease. Protein-based approaches are needed to elucidate whether such subphenotypes are related to distinct pathophysiological processes. METHODS: The proteome of ulcer edges was compared with that of paired control tissue samples [n = 32 biopsies] by differential proteomics in the ileum and the colon of Crohn's disease patients [n = 16]. The results were analysed using a hypothesis-driven approach [based on the literature] and a hypothesis-free approach [pathway enrichment analyses] to determine common and segment-specific pathophysiological processes associated with ileal and colonic CD ulcer edges. To confirm the involvement of a key pathway highlighted by proteomics, two proteins were also studied by immunochemistry. RESULTS: In the ileum and the colon, 4428 and 5204 proteins, respectively, were identified and quantified. Ileal and colonic ulcer edges differed in having a distinct distribution of proteins associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition, neutrophil degranulation, and ribosomes. Ileal and colonic ulcer edges were similarly characterized by an increase in the proteins implicated in the endoplasmic reticulum protein-processing pathway and a decrease in mitochondrial proteins. Immunochemistry confirmed the presence of endoplasmic reticulum stress in the mucosa of ileal and colonic ulcer edges. CONCLUSION: This study provides protein-based evidence for partially distinct pathophysiological processes being associated with ileal and colonic ulcer edges in Crohn's disease patients. This could constitute a first step toward the development of gut segment-specific diagnostic markers and therapeutics.
PXD012546	31283178	A Simple Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry Workflow for Studying System-wide Protein Interactions. 	A Simple Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry Workflow to Study System-Wide Protein Interactions in Drosophila Embryos	CXMS, Drosophila, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, XLMS, benchmarking, cross-Linking, machine learning	We present a cross-linking/mass spectrometry workflow for performing proteome-wide cross-linking analyses within 1 week. The workflow is based on the commercially available mass spectrometry-cleavable cross-linker disuccinimidyl dibutyric urea and can be employed by every lab having access to a mass spectrometer with tandem mass spectrometry capabilities. We provide an updated version 2.0 of the freeware software tool MeroX, available at www.StavroX.com , that allows us to conduct fully automated and reliable studies delivering insights into protein-protein interaction networks and protein conformations at the proteome level. We exemplify our optimized workflow for mapping protein-protein interaction networks in Drosophila melanogaster embryos on a system-wide level. From cross-linked Drosophila embryo extracts, we detected 29931 cross-link spectrum matches corresponding to 7436 unique cross-linked residues in biological triplicate experiments at a 1% false discovery rate. Among these, 1611 interprotein cross-linking sites were identified and yielded valuable information about protein-protein interactions. The 5825 remaining intraprotein cross-links yield information about the conformational landscape of proteins in their cellular environment.
PXD012951	31283757	Neutrophil extracellular traps (NET) induced by different stimuli: A comparative proteomic analysis. 	NET induced by different stimuli: a comparative proteomic analysis	neutrophil extracellular traps, post-translational modifications	Neutrophil extracellular traps (NET) formation is part of the neutrophil response to infections, but excessive or inappropriate NETosis may trigger the production of autoantibodies and cause organ damage in autoimmune disorders. Spontaneously netting neutrophils are not frequent and induction of NET in vitro by selected stimuli is necessary to investigate their structure. In the present work, the protein composition and post-translational modifications of NET produced under different stimuli have been studied by means of proteomic analysis. Neutrophils from healthy donors were stimulated by PMA, A23187, Escherichia coli LPS or untreated; after three hours, cells were washed, treated with DNase and supernatants collected for mass spectrometry. Data were analyzed by unsupervised hierarchical clustering analyses. We identified proteins contained in NETs of any source or exclusive of one stimulus: LPS-induced and spontaneous NET diverge in protein composition, while PMA- and A23187-induced NET appear more similar. Among the post-translational modifications we examined, methionine sulfoxidation is frequent especially in PMA- and LPS-induced NETs. Myeloperoxidase is the protein more extensively modified. Thus, proteomic analysis indicates that NETs induced by different stimuli are heterogeneous in terms of both protein composition and post-translational modifications, suggesting that NET induced in different conditions may have different biological effects.
PXD013269	31284791	Screening of serum biomarkers of preeclampsia by proteomics combination with bioinformatics. 	Screening of serum biomarkers of preeclampsia by proteomics combination with bioinformatics	Blood, ITRAQ	Objective: To screen for novel predictive serum markers of preeclampsia (PE). Method: Blood samples were collected from seven women with PE and five with healthy pregnancies. Serum proteins were identified using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) technology combined with liquid chromatography mass spectrometry analysis. The differentially expressed proteins in the PE samples were identified using the SwissProt database, and functionally annotated by gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. The upregulated proteins from iTRAQ result were verified by ELISA. Results: We identified 121 differentially expressed proteins, of which 76 were upregulated and 45 were downregulated, and 14 were differentially expressed by more than two-folds. The top GO terms for Cellular Components (CC) were high-density lipoprotein particles and plasma lipoprotein particles, defense response for Biological Processes (BP), and glycosaminoglycan binding, heparin binding and sulfur compound for Molecular functions (MF). The pathway hsa04979 for Cholesterol metabolism was significantly enriched among the upregulated proteins, while the structural domain was enriched in immunoglobulin subtype 2. The dysregulation of pregnancy-specific beta-1-glycoprotein 2 (PSG2) was confirmed by ELISA. Conclusion: PE pathogenesis is related to lipid metabolism and inflammation, and proteins related to these pathways are potential early diagnostic markers for PE.PSG2 may be a marker of PE.
PXD011852	31285264	Inhibiting ubiquitination causes an accumulation of SUMOylated newly synthesized nuclear proteins at PML bodies. 	SUMOylated proteins upon ubiquitin E1 inhibition	SUMO, ubiquitin	Protein ubiquitination and SUMOylation are required for the maintenance of cellular protein homeostasis, and both increase in proteotoxic conditions (e.g. heat shock or proteasome inhibition). However, we found that when ubiquitination was blocked in several human cell lines by inhibiting the ubiquitin-activating enzyme with TAK243, there was an unexpected, large accumulation of proteins modified by SUMO2/3 chains or SUMO1, but not by several other ubiquitin-like proteins. This buildup of SUMOylated proteins was evident within 3-4 h. It required the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO)-conjugating enzyme, UBC9, and the promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) and thus was not due to nonspecific SUMO conjugation by ubiquitination enzymes. The SUMOylated proteins accumulated predominantly bound to chromatin and were localized to PML nuclear bodies. Because blocking protein synthesis with cycloheximide prevented the buildup of SUMOylated proteins, they appeared to be newly-synthesized proteins. The proteins SUMOylated after inhibition of ubiquitination were purified and analyzed by MS. In HeLa and U2OS cells, there was a cycloheximide-sensitive increase in a similar set of SUMOylated proteins (including transcription factors and proteins involved in DNA damage repair). Surprisingly, the inhibition of ubiquitination also caused a cycloheximide-sensitive decrease in a distinct set of SUMOylated proteins (including proteins for chromosome modification and mRNA splicing). More than 80% of the SUMOylated proteins whose levels rose or fell upon inhibiting ubiquitination inhibition underwent similar cycloheximide-sensitive increases or decreases upon proteasome inhibition. Thus, when nuclear substrates of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway are not efficiently degraded, many become SUMO-modified and accumulate in PML bodies.
PXD013058	31285283	Canine Bone Marrow-derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells: Genomics, Proteomics and Functional Analyses of Paracrine Factors. 	CORRELATION OF CANINE BONE MARROW DERIVED MESENCHYMAL STEM CELLS GENOMICS WITH SECRETOME PROTEOMIC COMPOSITION	Canine, secretome, stem-cell	Adult stem cells have become prominent candidates for treating various diseases in veterinary practice. The main goal of our study was therefore to provide a comprehensive study of canine bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSC) and conditioned media, isolated from healthy adult dogs of different breeds. Under well-defined standardized isolation protocols, the multipotent differentiation and specific surface markers of BMMSC were supplemented with their gene expression, proteomic profile, and their biological function. The presented data confirm that canine BMMSC express important genes for differentiation toward osteo-, chondro-, and tendo-genic directions, but also genes associated with angiogenic, neurotrophic, and immunomodulatory properties. Furthermore, using proteome profiling, we identify for the first time the dynamic release of various bioactive molecules, such as transcription and translation factors and osteogenic, growth, angiogenic, and neurotrophic factors from canine BMMSC conditioned medium. Importantly, the relevant genes were linked to their proteins as detected in the conditioned medium and further associated with angiogenic activity in chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay. In this way, we show that the canine BMMSC release a variety of bioactive molecules, revealing a strong paracrine component that may possess therapeutic potential in various pathologies. However, extensive experimental or preclinical trials testing canine sources need to be performed in order to better understand their paracrine action, which may lead to novel therapeutic strategies in veterinary medicine.
PXD013777	31285344	Efficient T cell-B cell collaboration guides autoantibody epitope bias and onset of celiac disease. 	Immunoglobulin V-gene usage among human serum IgA with or without specificity to the autoantigen transglutaminase 2	IgA, autoantibodies, celiac disease, serum	B cells play important roles in autoimmune diseases through autoantibody production, cytokine secretion, or antigen presentation to T cells. In most cases, the contribution of B cells as antigen-presenting cells is not well understood. We have studied the autoantibody response against the enzyme transglutaminase 2 (TG2) in celiac disease patients by generating recombinant antibodies from single gut plasma cells reactive with discrete antigen domains and by undertaking proteomic analysis of anti-TG2 serum antibodies. The majority of the cells recognized epitopes in the N-terminal domain of TG2. Antibodies recognizing C-terminal epitopes interfered with TG2 cross-linking activity, and B cells specific for C-terminal epitopes were inefficient at taking up TG2-gluten complexes for presentation to gluten-specific T cells. The bias toward N-terminal epitopes hence reflects efficient T-B collaboration. Production of antibodies against N-terminal epitopes coincided with clinical onset of disease, suggesting that TG2-reactive B cells with certain epitope specificities could be the main antigen-presenting cells for pathogenic, gluten-specific T cells. The link between B cell epitopes, antigen presentation, and disease onset provides insight into the pathogenic mechanisms of a T cell-mediated autoimmune condition.
PXD010961	31285484	Proteomic study of the membrane components of signalling cascades of Botrytis cinerea controlled by phosphorylation. 	"Overlapping pictures, proteomic study of the membrane components of signaling cascades in Botrytis cinerea controlled by phosphorylation"	Botrytis cinerea, phosphomembranome	Protein phosphorylation and membrane proteins play an important role in the infection of plants by phytopathogenic fungi, given their involvement in signal transduction cascades. Botrytis cinerea is a well-studied necrotrophic fungus taken as a model organism in fungal plant pathology, given its broad host range and adverse economic impact. To elucidate relevant events during infection, several proteomics analyses have been performed in B. cinerea, but they cover only 10% of the total proteins predicted in the genome database of this fungus. To increase coverage, we analysed by LC-MS/MS the first-reported overlapped proteome in phytopathogenic fungi, the "phosphomembranome" of B. cinerea, combining the two most important signal transduction subproteomes. Of the 1112 membrane-associated phosphoproteins identified, 64 and 243 were classified as exclusively identified or overexpressed under glucose and deproteinized tomato cell wall conditions, respectively. Seven proteins were found under both conditions, but these presented a specific phosphorylation pattern, so they were considered as exclusively identified or overexpressed proteins. From bioinformatics analysis, those differences in the membrane-associated phosphoproteins composition were associated with various processes, including pyruvate metabolism, unfolded protein response, oxidative stress response, autophagy and cell death. Our results suggest these proteins play a significant role in the B. cinerea pathogenic cycle.
PXD009299	31285597	A marine bacterial enzymatic cascade degrades the algal polysaccharide ulvan. 	Proteomic insights into ulvan degradation by the marine Flavobacterium Formosa agariphila	Flavobacterium, Formosa agariphila	Marine seaweeds increasingly grow into extensive algal blooms, which are detrimental to coastal ecosystems, tourism and aquaculture. However, algal biomass is also emerging as a sustainable raw material for the bioeconomy. The potential exploitation of algae is hindered by our limited knowledge of the microbial pathways-and hence the distinct biochemical functions of the enzymes involved-that convert algal polysaccharides into oligo- and monosaccharides. Understanding these processes would be essential, however, for applications such as the fermentation of algal biomass into bioethanol or other value-added compounds. Here, we describe the metabolic pathway that enables the marine flavobacterium Formosa agariphila to degrade ulvan, the main cell wall polysaccharide of bloom-forming Ulva species. The pathway involves 12 biochemically characterized carbohydrate-active enzymes, including two polysaccharide lyases, three sulfatases and seven glycoside hydrolases that sequentially break down ulvan into fermentable monosaccharides. This way, the enzymes turn a previously unexploited renewable into a valuable and ecologically sustainable bioresource.
PXD006800	31286648	Multiple C2 domains and transmembrane region proteins (MCTPs) tether membranes at plasmodesmata. 	Establishment of plasmodesmata core proteome using label free semi-quantitative proteomic analysis.	Label-free, Plasmodesmata	In eukaryotes, membrane contact sites (MCS) allow direct communication between organelles. Plants have evolved a unique type of MCS, inside intercellular pores, the plasmodesmata, where endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-plasma membrane (PM) contacts coincide with regulation of cell-to-cell signalling. The molecular mechanism and function of membrane tethering within plasmodesmata remain unknown. Here, we show that the multiple C2 domains and transmembrane region protein (MCTP) family, key regulators of cell-to-cell signalling in plants, act as ER-PM tethers specifically at plasmodesmata. We report that MCTPs are plasmodesmata proteins that insert into the ER via their transmembrane region while their C2 domains dock to the PM through interaction with anionic phospholipids. A Atmctp3/Atmctp4 loss of function mutant induces plant developmental defects, impaired plasmodesmata function and composition, while MCTP4 expression in a yeast Deltatether mutant partially restores ER-PM tethering. Our data suggest that MCTPs are unique membrane tethers controlling both ER-PM contacts and cell-to-cell signalling.
PXD012624	31287970	Reconstitution of Microtubule Nucleation In Vitro Reveals Novel Roles for Mzt1. 	Reconstitution of microtubule nucleation in vitro reveals novel roles for Mzt1	Cross-linking, "MGM" (Mto/Gamma/Mozart) holocomplex	Microtubule (MT) nucleation depends on the gamma-tubulin complex (gamma-TuC), in which multiple copies of the heterotetrameric gamma-tubulin small complex (gamma-TuSC) associate to form a ring-like structure (in metazoans, gamma-tubulin ring complex; gamma-TuRC) [1-7]. Additional conserved regulators of the gamma-TuC include the small protein Mzt1 (MOZART1 in human; GIP1/1B and GIP2/1A in plants) [8-13] and proteins containing a Centrosomin Motif 1 (CM1) domain [10, 14-19]. Many insights into gamma-TuC regulators have come from in vivo analysis in fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The S. pombe CM1 protein Mto1 recruits the gamma-TuC to microtubule-organizing centers (MTOCs) [14, 20-22], and analysis of Mto1[bonsai], a truncated version of Mto1 that cannot localize to MTOCs, has shown that Mto1 also has a role in gamma-TuC activation [23]. S. pombe Mzt1 interacts with gamma-TuSC and is essential for gamma-TuC function and localization to MTOCs [11, 12]. However, the mechanisms by which Mzt1 functions remain unclear. Here we describe reconstitution of MT nucleation using purified recombinant Mto1[bonsai], the Mto1 partner protein Mto2, gamma-TuSC, and Mzt1. Multiple copies of the six proteins involved coassemble to form a 34-40S ring-like "MGM" holocomplex that is a potent MT nucleator in vitro. Using purified MGM and subcomplexes, we investigate the role of Mzt1 in MT nucleation. Our results suggest that Mzt1 is critical to stabilize Alp6, the S. pombe homolog of human gamma-TuSC protein GCP3, in an "interaction-competent" form within the gamma-TuSC. This is essential for MGM to become a functional nucleator.
PXD005665	31289117	A Targeted Mass Spectrometry Strategy for Developing Proteomic Biomarkers: A Case Study of Epithelial Ovarian Cancer. 	Ovarian cancer mouse model tissue LC-MSMS	Ovairan cancer	Protein biomarkers for epithelial ovarian cancer are critical for the early detection of the cancer to improve patient prognosis and for the clinical management of the disease to monitor treatment response and to detect recurrences. Unfortunately, the discovery of protein biomarkers is hampered by the limited availability of reliable and sensitive assays needed for the reproducible quantification of proteins in complex biological matrices such as blood plasma. In recent years, targeted mass spectrometry, exemplified by selected reaction monitoring (SRM) has emerged as a method, capable of overcoming this limitation. Here, we present a comprehensive SRM-based strategy for developing plasma-based protein biomarkers for epithelial ovarian cancer and illustrate how the SRM platform, when combined with rigorous experimental design and statistical analysis, can result in detection of predictive analytes.Our biomarker development strategy first involved a discovery-driven proteomic effort to derive potential N-glycoprotein biomarker candidates for plasma-based detection of human ovarian cancer from a genetically engineered mouse model of endometrioid ovarian cancer, which accurately recapitulates the human disease. Next, 65 candidate markers selected from proteins of different abundance in the discovery dataset were reproducibly quantified with SRM assays across a large cohort of over 200 plasma samples from ovarian cancer patients and healthy controls. Finally, these measurements were used to derive a 5-protein signature for distinguishing individuals with epithelial ovarian cancer from healthy controls. The sensitivity of the candidate biomarker signature in combination with CA125 ELISA-based measurements currently used in clinic, exceeded that of CA125 ELISA-based measurements alone. The SRM-based strategy in this study is broadly applicable. It can be used in any study that requires accurate and reproducible quantification of selected proteins in a high-throughput and multiplexed fashion.
PXD013358	31289835	Toxins from scratch? Diverse, multimodal gene origins in the predatory robber fly Dasypogon diadema indicate a dynamic venom evolution in dipteran insects. 	Toxins from scratch? - Diverse, multimodal gene origins in the predatory robber fly Dasypogon diadema indicate dynamic venom evolution in dipteran insects	Dasypogon, robber fly, toxin, venom	BACKGROUND: Venoms and the toxins they contain represent molecular adaptations that have evolved on numerous occasions throughout the animal kingdom. However, the processes that shape venom protein evolution are poorly understood because of the scarcity of whole-genome data available for comparative analyses of venomous species. RESULTS: We performed a broad comparative toxicogenomic analysis to gain insight into the genomic mechanisms of venom evolution in robber flies (Asilidae). We first sequenced a high-quality draft genome of the hymenopteran hunting robber fly Dasypogon diadema, analysed its venom by a combined proteotranscriptomic approach, and compared our results with recently described robber fly venoms to assess the general composition and major components of asilid venom. We then applied a comparative genomics approach, based on 1 additional asilid genome, 10 high-quality dipteran genomes, and 2 lepidopteran outgroup genomes, to reveal the evolutionary mechanisms and origins of identified venom proteins in robber flies. CONCLUSIONS: While homologues were identified for 15 of 30 predominant venom protein in the non-asilid genomes, the remaining 15 highly expressed venom proteins appear to be unique to robber flies. Our results reveal that the venom of D. diadema likely evolves in a multimodal fashion comprising (i) neofunctionalization after gene duplication, (ii) expression-dependent co-option of proteins, and (iii) asilid lineage-specific orphan genes with enigmatic origin. The role of such orphan genes is currently being disputed in evolutionary genomics but has not been discussed in the context of toxin evolution. Our results display an unexpected dynamic venom evolution in asilid insects, which contrasts the findings of the only other insect toxicogenomic evolutionary analysis, in parasitoid wasps (Hymenoptera), where toxin evolution is dominated by single gene co-option. These findings underpin the significance of further genomic studies to cover more neglected lineages of venomous taxa and to understand the importance of orphan genes as possible drivers for venom evolution.
PXD013210	31290668	PTMProphet: Fast and Accurate Mass Modification Localization for the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline. 	PTMProphet: Fast and Accurate Mass Modification Localization for the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline	site localization, synthetic phospho-peptides	Spectral matching sequence database search engines commonly used on mass spectrometry-based proteomics experiments excel at identifying peptide sequence ions, and in addition, possible sequence ions carrying post-translational modifications (PTMs), but most do not provide confidence metrics for the exact localization of those PTMs when several possible sites are available. Localization is absolutely required for downstream molecular cell biology analysis of PTM function in vitro and in vivo. Therefore, we developed PTMProphet, a free and open-source software tool integrated into the Trans-Proteomic Pipeline, which reanalyzes identified spectra from any search engine for which pepXML output is available to provide localization confidence to enable appropriate further characterization of biologic events. Localization of any type of mass modification (e.g., phosphorylation) is supported. PTMProphet applies Bayesian mixture models to compute probabilities for each site/peptide spectrum match where a PTM has been identified. These probabilities can be combined to compute a global false localization rate at any threshold to guide downstream analysis. We describe the PTMProphet tool, its underlying algorithms, and demonstrate its performance on ground-truth synthetic peptide reference data sets, one previously published small data set, one new larger data set, and also on a previously published phosphoenriched data set where the correct sites of modification are unknown. Data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013210.
PXD013594	31290743	HDX-MS reveals nucleotide-dependent, anti-correlated opening and closure of SecA and SecY channels of the bacterial translocon. 	Investigating the dynamics of the SecA-SecYEG complex dynamic by HDX-MS	HDX-MS, SecA-SecYEG	The bacterial Sec translocon is a multi-protein complex responsible for translocating diverse proteins across the plasma membrane. For post-translational protein translocation, the Sec-channel - SecYEG - associates with the motor protein SecA to mediate the ATP-dependent transport of pre-proteins across the membrane. Previously, a diffusional-based Brownian ratchet mechanism for protein secretion has been proposed; the structural dynamics required to facilitate this mechanism remain unknown. Here, we employ hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) to reveal striking nucleotide-dependent conformational changes in the Sec protein-channel from Escherichia coli. In addition to the ATP-dependent opening of SecY, reported previously, we observe a counteracting, and ATP-dependent, constriction of SecA around the pre-protein. ATP binding causes SecY to open and SecA to close; while, ADP produced by hydrolysis, has the opposite effect. This alternating behaviour could help impose the directionality of the Brownian ratchet for protein transport through the Sec machinery.
PXD012083	31291378	Acute myeloid leukemia immunopeptidome reveals HLA presentation of mutated nucleophosmin. 	AML HLA Ligandome reveals mutated NPM1 as a recurrent neoantigen	Acute myeloid leukemia, HLA, Homo Sapiens, neoantigen	Somatic mutations in cancer are a potential source of cancer specific neoantigens. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has common recurrent mutations shared between patients in addition to private mutations specific to individuals. We hypothesized that neoantigens derived from recurrent shared mutations would be attractive targets for future immunotherapeutic approaches. Here we sought to study the HLA Class I and II immunopeptidome of thirteen primary AML tumor samples and two AML cell lines (OCI-AML3 and MV4-11) using mass spectrometry to evaluate for endogenous mutation-bearing HLA ligands from common shared AML mutations. We identified two endogenous, mutation-bearing HLA Class I ligands from nucleophosmin (NPM1). The ligands, AVEEVSLRK from two patient samples and C(cys)LAVEEVSL from OCI-AML3, are predicted to bind the common HLA haplotypes, HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-A*02:01 respectively. Since NPM1 is mutated in approximately one-third of patients with AML, the finding of endogenous HLA ligands from mutated NPM1 supports future studies evaluating immunotherapeutic approaches against this shared target, for this subset of patients with AML.
PXD009219	31291891	The difference in serum proteomes in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. 	The difference in serum proteomes in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder	biomarker, bipolar disorder, one- dimensional gel electrophoresis, schizophrenia, serum	BACKGROUND: Purpose of study is revealing significant differences in serum proteomes in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (BD). RESULTS: Quantitative mass-spectrometry based proteomic analysis was used to quantify proteins in the blood serum samples after the depletion of six major blood proteins. Comparison of proteome profiles of different groups revealed 27 proteins being specific for schizophrenia, and 18 - for BD. Protein set in schizophrenia was mostly associated with immune response, cell communication, cell growth and maintenance, protein metabolism and regulation of nucleic acid metabolism. Protein set in BD was mostly associated with immune response, regulating transport processes across cell membrane and cell communication, development of neurons and oligodendrocytes and cell growth. Concentrations of ankyrin repeat domain-containing protein 12 (ANKRD12) and cadherin 5 in serum samples were determined by ELISA. Significant difference between three groups was revealed in ANKRD12 concentration (p = 0.02), with maximum elevation of ANKRD12 concentration (median level) in schizophrenia followed by BD. Cadherin 5 concentration differed significantly (p = 0.035) between schizophrenic patients with prevailing positive symptoms (4.78 [2.71, 7.12] ng/ml) and those with prevailing negative symptoms (1.86 [0.001, 4.11] ng/ml). CONCLUSIONS: Our results are presumably useful for discovering the new pathways involved in endogenous psychotic disorders.
PXD014357	31292258	Protein synthesis rates and ribosome occupancies reveal determinants of translation elongation rates. 	Protein synthesis rates and ribosome occupancies reveal determinants of translation elongation rates	TASEP, protein charge, ribosomal proteins, translation	Although protein synthesis dynamics has been studied both with theoretical models and by profiling ribosome footprints, the determinants of ribosome flux along open reading frames (ORFs) are not fully understood. Combining measurements of protein synthesis rate with ribosome footprinting data, we here inferred translation initiation and elongation rates for over a 1,000 ORFs in exponentially growing wild-type yeast cells. We found that the amino acid composition of synthesized proteins is as important a determinant of translation elongation rate as parameters related to codon and transfer RNA (tRNA) adaptation. We did not find evidence of ribosome collisions curbing the protein output of yeast transcripts, either in high translation conditions associated with exponential growth, or in strains in which deletion of individual ribosomal protein (RP) genes leads to globally increased or decreased translation. Slow translation elongation is characteristic of RP-encoding transcripts, which have markedly lower protein output compared with other transcripts with equally high ribosome densities.
PXD013482	31293153	Changes in the Turnover of the Cellular Proteome during Metabolic Reprogramming: A Role for mtROS in Proteostasis. 	Changes in the turnover of the cellular proteome during metabolic reprogramming: A role for mtROS in proteostasis	ATP synthase, Glycolysis, SILAC., mTORC1, mitochondrial ROS, prolyl hydroxylases	The role played by protein turnover in metabolic reprogramming is unknown. Herein, using a SILAC approach, we have studied the changes in the half-life of 266 proteins of energy metabolism and of translation during the metabolic switch induced by the prolyl hydroxylases inhibitor dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG). DMOG induces HIF-1alpha expression and triggers the activation of glycolysis and the concurrent inhibition of mitochondrial respiration in colon cancer cells. Changes in the activity of energy provision pathways correlated with increased turnover rates of glycolytic enzymes and the stabilization of mitochondrial proteins. Moreover, reprogramming also stabilized the proteins of translation. The partial DMOG-mediated arrest of the synthesis of mitochondrial and translation proteins results from the inhibition of the mTORC1/p70SK/S6 signaling pathway. In contrast, DMOG stimulated the synthesis of glycolytic enzymes, emphasizing the opposite and differential regulation of the two pathways of energy provision. Addition of MitoQ, a mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) scavenger, stabilized the turnover of cellular proteins similarly as when protein degradation is inhibited with leupeptin, a serine-protease inhibitor. Overall, the results show that the higher the activity of a pathway the lower is the half-life of the proteins involved and suggest a role for mtROS in cellular proteostasis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013482.
PXD013411	31293555	The Signal Transduction Protein PII Controls Ammonium, Nitrate and Urea Uptake in Cyanobacteria. 	The signal transduction protein PII controls ammonium, nitrate and urea uptake in cyanobacteria	ABC transporters, Ammonium uptake, Cyanobacteria, GlnB, Nitrate uptake, Nitrogen regulation, PII signaling protein, Urea uptake	PII signal transduction proteins are widely spread among all domains of life where they regulate a multitude of carbon and nitrogen metabolism related processes. Non-diazotrophic cyanobacteria can utilize a high variety of organic and inorganic nitrogen sources. In recent years, several physiological studies indicated an involvement of the cyanobacterial PII protein in regulation of ammonium, nitrate/nitrite, and cyanate uptake. However, direct interaction of PII has not been demonstrated so far. In this study, we used biochemical, molecular genetic and physiological approaches to demonstrate that PII regulates all relevant nitrogen uptake systems in Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803: PII controls ammonium uptake by interacting with the Amt1 ammonium permease, probably similar to the known regulation of E. coli ammonium permease AmtB by the PII homolog GlnK. We could further clarify that PII mediates the ammonium- and dark-induced inhibition of nitrate uptake by interacting with the NrtC and NrtD subunits of the nitrate/nitrite transporter NrtABCD. We further identified the ABC-type urea transporter UrtABCDE as novel PII target. PII interacts with the UrtE subunit without involving the standard interaction surface of PII interactions. The deregulation of urea uptake in a PII deletion mutant causes ammonium excretion when urea is provided as nitrogen source. Furthermore, the urea hydrolyzing urease enzyme complex appears to be coupled to urea uptake. Overall, this study underlines the great importance of the PII signal transduction protein in the regulation of nitrogen utilization in cyanobacteria.
PXD012431	31294064	High-throughput mass spectrometry and bioinformatics analysis of breast cancer proteomic data. 	High-throughput mass spectrometry and bioinformatics analysis of breast cancer proteomic data	Breast cancer, bioinformatics analysis, contralateral breast tissue, label-free mass spectrometry	Data present here describe a comparative proteomic analysis among the malignant [primary breast tumor (PT) and axillary metastatic lymph nodes (LN)], and the non-tumor [contralateral (NCT) and adjacent (ANT)] breast tissues. Protein identification and quantification were performed through label-free mass spectrometry using a nano-liquid chromatography coupled to an electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (nLC-ESI-MS/MS). The mass spectrometry proteomic data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD012431. A total of 462 differentially expressed proteins was identified among these tissues and was analyzed in six groups' comparisons (named NCTxANT, PTxNCT, PTxANT, LNxNCT, LNxANT and PTxLN). Proteins at 1.5 log2 fold change were submitted to the Ingenuity((R)) Pathway Analysis (IPA) software version 2.3 (QIAGEN Inc.) to identify biological pathways, disease and function annotation, and interaction networks related to cancer biology. The detailed data present here provides information about the proteome alterations and their role on breast tumorigenesis. This information can lead to novel biological insights on cancer research. For further interpretation of these data, please see our research article 'Quantitative label-free mass spectrometry using contralateral and adjacent breast tissues reveal differentially expressed proteins and their predicted impacts on pathways and cellular functions in breast cancer' [2].
PXD013668	31294692	In vivo identification of GTPase interactors by mitochondrial relocalization and proximity biotinylation. 	In vivo identification of GTPase  interactors by mitochondrial relocalizationand proximity biotinylation	BirA*, GEFs, Ras, membranes, mitochondria GTPase	The GTPases of the Ras superfamily regulate cell growth, membrane traffic and the cytoskeleton, and a wide range of diseases are caused by mutations in particular members. They function as switchable landmarks with the active GTP-bound form recruiting to the membrane a specific set of effector proteins. The GTPases are precisely controlled by regulators that promote acquisition of GTP (GEFs) or its hydrolysis to GDP (GAPs). We report here MitoID, a method for identifying effectors and regulators by performing in vivo proximity biotinylation with mitochondrially-localized forms of the GTPases. Applying this to 11 human Rab GTPases identified many known effectors and GAPs, as well as putative novel effectors, with examples of the latter validated for Rab2, Rab5, Rab9 and Rab11. MitoID can also efficiently identify effectors and GAPs of Rho and Ras family GTPases such as Cdc42, RhoA, Rheb, and N-Ras, and can identify GEFs by use of GDP-bound forms.
PXD012252	31294914	Proteomic Analysis Reveals that Odoroside A Triggers G2/M Arrest and Apoptosis in Colorectal Carcinoma Through ROS-p53 Pathway. 	Proteomic analysis reveals that Odoroside A triggers G2/M arrest and apoptosis in colorectal carcinoma through ROS-p53 pathway	Apoptosis, Cell cycle, Colorectal cancer, Natural product, Odoroside A, ROS/p53 pathways	Odoroside A (OA) is an active ingredient extracted from the leaves of Nerium oleander Linn. (Apocynaceae). This study aims to examine the anticancer bioactivity of OA against CRC cells and to investigate the action mechanisms involved. As a result, OA can significantly inhibit cellular ability and induce apoptosis of CRC cells in a concentration-dependent manner without any obvious cytotoxicity in normal colorectal epithelial cells. Then, quantitative proteomics combined with bioinformatics is adopted to investigate the alterations of proteins and signaling pathways in response to OA treatment. As suggested by the proteomic analysis, flow cytometry and Western blotting analyses validate that exposure of CRC cells to OA causes cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, accompanied with the activation of the ROS/p53 signaling pathway. This observation demonstrates that OA, as a natural product, can induce oxidative stress to suppress tumor cell growth, implicating a novel therapeutic agent against CRC without obvious side effects.
PXD008337	31296869	Lamin A molecular compression and sliding as mechanisms behind nucleoskeleton elasticity. 	Lamin A dimer and tetramer cross-links help explain disease mutations and polymer plasticity	Cross-link Mass Spectrometry, EM, Lamin A, SILAC	Lamin A is a nuclear intermediate filament protein critical for nuclear architecture and mechanics and mutated in a wide range of human diseases. Yet little is known about the molecular architecture of lamins and mechanisms of their assembly. Here we use SILAC cross-linking mass spectrometry to determine interactions within lamin dimers and between dimers in higher-order polymers. We find evidence for a compression mechanism where coiled coils in the lamin A rod can slide onto each other to contract rod length, likely driven by a wide range of electrostatic interactions with the flexible linkers between coiled coils. Similar interactions occur with unstructured regions flanking the rod domain during oligomeric assembly. Mutations linked to human disease block these interactions, suggesting that this spring-like contraction can explain in part the dynamic mechanical stretch and flexibility properties of the lamin polymer and other intermediate filament networks.
PXD010030	31297156	Transcriptomic and proteomic responses to very low CO2 suggest multiple carbon concentrating mechanisms in Nannochloropsis oceanica. 	Nannochloropsis data LC-MS/MS -  Transcriptomic and proteomic responses to very low CO2 suggest multiple carbon concentrating mechanisms in Nannochloropsis oceanica	High/low carbon, Nannochloropsis, carbon metabolism	BACKGROUND: In industrial oleaginous microalgae such as Nannochloropsis spp., the key components of the carbon concentration mechanism (CCM) machineries are poorly defined, and how they are mobilized to facilitate cellular utilization of inorganic carbon remains elusive. RESULTS: For Nannochloropsis oceanica, to unravel genes specifically induced by CO2 depletion which are thus potentially underpinning its CCMs, transcriptome, proteome and metabolome profiles were tracked over 0 h, 3 h, 6 h, 12 h and 24 h during cellular response from high CO2 level (HC; 50,000 ppm) to very low CO2 (VLC; 100 ppm). The activity of a biophysical CCM is evidenced based on induction of transcripts encoding a bicarbonate transporter and two carbonic anhydrases under VLC. Moreover, the presence of a potential biochemical CCM is supported by the upregulation of a number of key C4-like pathway enzymes in both protein abundance and enzymatic activity under VLC, consistent with a mitochondria-implicated C4-based CCM. Furthermore, a basal CCM underpinned by VLC-induced upregulation of photorespiration and downregulation of ornithine-citrulline shuttle and the ornithine urea cycles is likely present, which may be responsible for efficient recycling of mitochondrial CO2 for chloroplastic carbon fixation. CONCLUSIONS: Nannochloropsis oceanica appears to mobilize a comprehensive set of CCMs in response to very low CO2. Its genes induced by the stress are quite distinct from those of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Phaeodactylum tricornutum, suggesting tightly regulated yet rather unique CCMs. These findings can serve the first step toward rational engineering of the CCMs for enhanced carbon fixation and biomass productivity in industrial microalgae.
PXD013072	31298480	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of FSCN1-interacting proteins in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cells. 	Proteomic Analysis of FSCN1-Interacting Proteins in LSCC cells	FSCN1, LS-MS/MS, LSCC, immunoprecipitation, interactomics	Fascin actin-bundling protein 1 (FSCN1) is an evolutionarily conserved actin-bundling protein that plays a critical role in cell migration, motility, adhesion, and cellular interactions. Although multiple clinical studies have implicated the expression of FSCN1 in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) progression, the precise mechanism of FSCN1 in the process has not been clearly elucidated. To define FSCN1 function, we characterized FSCN1-interacting proteins in two cell lines by immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry (MS). After data filtering, 119 proteins with expression in both the Hep-2 and TU-177 cell samples were identified as FSCN1-interacting partners. With in-depth bioinformatics analysis, we linked FSCN1 to critical cellular processes including cell adhesion, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, regulation of protein ubiquitination, ribosomal RNA processing, and small molecule metabolism. We discuss the interactions between FSCN1 and some of the newly validated partners. The identification of these potential partners of FSCN1 expands our knowledge of the FSCN1 interactome and provides a valuable resource for understanding the functions of this protein in LSCC progression.
PXD011252	31299612	Oxygen-dependent bond formation with FIH regulates the activity of the client protein OTUB1. 	Comparison of denatured and non-denatured FIH interactomes	HIF, amide bond, asparagine hydroxylase, covalent bond, hypoxia, oxygen	Protein:protein interactions are the basis of molecular communication and are usually of transient non-covalent nature, while covalent interactions other than ubiquitination are rare. For cellular adaptations, the cellular oxygen and peroxide sensor factor inhibiting HIF (FIH) confers oxygen and oxidant stress sensitivity to the hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) by asparagine hydroxylation. We investigated whether FIH contributes to hypoxia adaptation also through other mechanisms and identified a hypoxia sensitive, likely covalent, bond formation by FIH with several client proteins, including the deubiquitinase ovarian tumor domain containing ubiquitin aldehyde binding protein 1 (OTUB1). Biochemical analyses were consistent with a co-translational amide bond formation between FIH and OTUB1, occurring within mammalian and bacterial cells but not between separately purified proteins. Bond formation is catalysed by FIH and highly dependent on oxygen availability in the cellular microenvironment. Within cells, a heterotrimeric complex is formed, consisting of two FIH and one covalently linked OTUB1. Complexation of OTUB1 by FIH regulates OTUB1 deubiquitinase activity. Our findings reveal an alternative mechanism for hypoxia adaptation with remarkably high oxygen sensitivity, mediated through covalent protein-protein interactions catalysed by an asparagine modifying dioxygenase.
PXD012985	31300557	Translational regulation contributes to the secretory response of chondrocytic cells following exposure to interleukin-1beta. 	Translational regulation contributes to the secretory response of chondrocytic cells following exposure to Interleukin-1B	chondrocytes, inflammation, interleukin-1B, ribosome profiling, secretion	Osteoarthritis is a chronic disease characterized by the loss of articular cartilage in synovial joints through a process of extracellular matrix destruction that is strongly associated with inflammatory stimuli. Chondrocytes undergo changes to their protein translational capacity during osteoarthritis, but a study of how disease-relevant signals affect chondrocyte protein translation at the transcriptomic level has not previously been performed. In this study, we describe how the inflammatory cytokine interleukin 1-beta (IL-1beta) rapidly affects protein translation in the chondrocytic cell line SW1353. Using ribosome profiling we demonstrate that IL-1beta induced altered translation of inflammatory-associated transcripts such as NFKB1, TNFAIP2, MMP13, CCL2, and CCL7, as well as a number of ribosome-associated transcripts, through differential translation and the use of multiple open reading frames. Proteomic analysis of the cellular layer and the conditioned media of these cells identified changes in a number of the proteins that were differentially translated. Translationally regulated secreted proteins included a number of chemokines and cytokines, underlining the rapid, translationally mediated inflammatory cascade that is initiated by IL-1beta. Although fewer cellular proteins were found to be regulated in both ribosome profiling and proteomic data sets, we did find increased levels of SOD2, indicative of redox changes within SW1353 cells being modulated at the translational level. In conclusion, we have produced combined ribosome profiling and proteomic data sets that provide a valuable resource in understanding the processes that occur during cytokine stimulation of chondrocytic cells.
PXD013994	31300655	Molecular basis of egg coat cross-linking sheds light on ZP1-associated female infertility. 	Egg-coat degradation	chicken egg-coat ZP	Mammalian fertilisation begins when sperm interacts with the egg zona pellucida (ZP), whose ZP1 subunit is important for fertility by covalently cross-linking ZP filaments into a three-dimensional matrix. Like ZP4, a structurally-related component absent in the mouse, ZP1 is predicted to contain an N-terminal ZP-N domain of unknown function. Here we report a characterisation of ZP1 proteins carrying mutations from infertile patients, which suggests that, in human, filament cross-linking by ZP1 is crucial to form a stable ZP. We map the function of ZP1 to its ZP-N1 domain and determine crystal structures of ZP-N1 homodimers from a chicken homolog of ZP1. These reveal that ZP filament cross-linking is highly plastic and can be modulated by ZP1 fucosylation and, potentially, zinc sparks. Moreover, we show that ZP4 ZP-N1 forms non-covalent homodimers in chicken but not in human. Together, these data identify human ZP1 cross-links as a promising target for non-hormonal contraception.
PXD013158	31301798	Pillar array columns for peptide separations in nanoscale reversed-phase chromatography. 	Pillar Array Columns for Peptide Separations	Pillar, column, separation	Reversed-phase chromatography is the most common technique for separation of tryptic peptides. In this short communication, we describe the optimization of sample loading and separation parameters for a novel micromachined column and provide a detailed description on the performance and reproducibility of this separation system. Tryptic digest of a mixture of seven proteins with diverse mass and isoelectric point was used as a test sample. The methods developed and used are straight-forward; by using well-balanced, combined-step gradients an optimal distribution of peptides on the column could be achieved throughout the complete gradient window. The potential use of the column is exceptional due to the low back-pressure, better distribution of peptides over the separation window, enhanced stability and reproducibility of retention times, and the prolonged lifetime of columns compared to conventionally packed nano-HPLC column. The higher identification rates have been demonstrated through measurements of HeLa cell lysates under identical chromatographic conditions on the pillar array and packed-bed columns.
PXD008932	31302002	IKKalpha Kinase Regulates the DNA Damage Response and Drives Chemo-resistance in Cancer. 	BRAF and IKKalpha  involvement in DNA Damage Response	BRAF, DNAdamage, Ikka, colorectal cancer	Phosphorylated IKKalpha(p45) is a nuclear active form of the IKKalpha kinase that is induced by the MAP kinases BRAF and TAK1 and promotes tumor growth independent of canonical NF-kappaB signaling. Insights into the sources of IKKalpha(p45) activation and its downstream substrates in the nucleus remain to be defined. Here, we discover that IKKalpha(p45) is rapidly activated by DNA damage independent of ATM-ATR, but dependent on BRAF-TAK1-p38-MAPK, and is required for robust ATM activation and efficient DNA repair. Abolishing BRAF or IKKalpha activity attenuates ATM, Chk1, MDC1, Kap1, and 53BP1 phosphorylation, compromises 53BP1 and RIF1 co-recruitment to sites of DNA lesions, and inhibits 53BP1-dependent fusion of dysfunctional telomeres. Furthermore, IKKalpha or BRAF inhibition synergistically enhances the therapeutic potential of 5-FU and irinotecan to eradicate chemotherapy-resistant metastatic human tumors in vivo. Our results implicate BRAF and IKKalpha kinases in the DDR and reveal a combination strategy for cancer treatment.
PXD008995	31303383	Augmenting Immunotherapy Impact by Lowering Tumor TNF Cytotoxicity Threshold. 	Augmenting Immunotherapy Impact by Lowering Tumor TNF Cytotoxicity Threshold	Melanoma, T cell, TRAF2, phosphorylation	New opportunities are needed to increase immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) benefit. Whereas the interferon (IFN)gamma pathway harbors both ICB resistance factors and therapeutic opportunities, this has not been systematically investigated for IFNgamma-independent signaling routes. A genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screen to sensitize IFNgamma receptor-deficient tumor cells to CD8 T cell elimination uncovered several hits mapping to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) pathway. Clinically, we show that TNF antitumor activity is only limited in tumors at baseline and in ICB non-responders, correlating with its low abundance. Taking advantage of the genetic screen, we demonstrate that ablation of the top hit, TRAF2, lowers the TNF cytotoxicity threshold in tumors by redirecting TNF signaling to favor RIPK1-dependent apoptosis. TRAF2 loss greatly enhanced the therapeutic potential of pharmacologic inhibition of its interaction partner cIAP, another screen hit, thereby cooperating with ICB. Our results suggest that selective reduction of the TNF cytotoxicity threshold increases the susceptibility of tumors to immunotherapy.
PXD012076	31303485	Conserved Biochemical Defenses Underpin Host Responses to Oomycete Infection in an Early-Divergent Land Plant Lineage. 	Proteomic response of the early divergent liverwort Marchantia polymorpha during infection with the oomycete pathogen Phytophthora palmivora	Marchantia polymorpha, pathogen-response, plant immunity	The expansion of plants onto land necessitated the evolution of robust defense strategies to protect against a wide array of microbial invaders. Whereas host responses to microbial colonization are extensively explored in evolutionarily young land plant lineages such as angiosperms, we know relatively little about plant-pathogen interactions in early-diverging land plants thought to better represent the ancestral state. Here, we define the transcriptional and proteomic response of the early-divergent liverwort Marchantia polymorpha to infection with the oomycete pathogen Phytophthora palmivora. We uncover a robust molecular response to oomycete colonization in Marchantia that consists of conserved land plant gene families. Direct macroevolutionary comparisons of host infection responses in Marchantia and the model angiosperm Nicotiana benthamiana further reveal a shared set of orthologous microbe-responsive genes that include members of the phenylpropanoid metabolic pathway. In addition, we identify a role for the Marchantia R2R3-MYB transcription factor MpMyb14 in activating phenylpropanoid (flavonoid) biosynthesis during oomycete infection. Mpmyb14 mutants infected with P. palmivora fail to activate phenylpropanoid biosynthesis gene expression and display enhanced disease susceptibility compared to wild-type plants. Conversely, the ectopic induction of MpMyb14 led to the accumulation of anthocyanin-like pigments and dramatically enhanced liverwort resistance to P. palmivora infection. Collectively, our results demonstrate that the Marchantia response to oomycete infection displays evolutionarily conserved features indicative of an ancestral pathogen deterrence strategy centered on phenylpropanoid-mediated biochemical defenses.
PXD009353	31307118	Dual strategy for reduced signal-suppression effects in matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging. 	Data in support of Enhanced amyloid beta proteoform detection in an Alzheimer's disease model by integrated matrix composition enhanced MALDI Imaging and laser capture microdissection	Alzheimers disease, Imaging MS, MALDI, biomarkers	RATIONALE: The molecular complexity of tissue features several signal-suppression effects which reduce the ionization of analytes significantly and thereby weakens the quality of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry (MS) imaging (MALDI imaging). We report a novel approach in MALDI imaging by reducing signal-suppression effects for the analysis of beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques, one pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). METHODS: We analyzed Abeta proteoforms from postmortem AD brains and brains from transgenic mice (APPPS1-21) overexpressing familial AD mutations by combining two techniques: (1) laser capture microdissection (LCM) to accumulate Abeta plaques and (2) phosphoric acid (PA) as additive to the super-2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid matrix. RESULTS: LCM and MALDI-MS enabled tandem mass spectrometric fragmentation of stained Abeta plaques. PA improved the signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio, especially of the Abeta1-42 peptide, by three-fold compared with the standard matrix additive trifluoroacetic acid. The beneficial effect of the PA matrix additive in MALDI imaging was particularly important for AD brain tissue. We identified several significant differences in Abeta plaque composition from AD compared with APPPS1-21, underlining the value of reducing signal-suppressing effects in MALDI imaging. CONCLUSIONS: We present a novel strategy for overcoming signal-suppression effects in MALDI imaging of Abeta proteoforms.
PXD012681	31308090	Semiquantitative Proteomics Enables Mapping of Murine Neutrophil Dynamics following Lethal Influenza Virus Infection. 	Semi-quantitative proteomics enables mapping of global neutrophil dynamics following influenza virus infection	Influenza, Neutrophil	Neutrophils are rapidly deployed innate immune cells, and excessive recruitment is causally associated with influenza-induced pathologic conditions. Despite this, the complete set of influenza lethality-associated neutrophil effector proteins is currently unknown. Whether the expression of these proteins is predetermined during bone marrow (BM) neutrophil maturation or further modulated by tissue compartment transitions has also not been comprehensively characterized at a proteome-wide scale. In this study, we used high-resolution mass spectrometry to map how the proteomes of murine neutrophils change comparatively across BM, blood, and the alveolar airspaces to deploy an influenza lethality-associated response. Following lethal influenza infection, mature neutrophils undergo two infection-dependent and one context-independent compartmental transitions. Translation of type I IFN-stimulated genes is first elevated in the BM, preceding the context-independent downregulation of ribosomal proteins observed in blood neutrophils. Following alveolar airspace infiltration, the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) neutrophil proteome is further characterized by a limited increase in type I IFN-stimulated and metal-sequestering proteins as well as a decrease in degranulation-associated proteins. An influenza-selective and dose-dependent increase in antiviral and lipid metabolism-associated proteins was also observed in BAL neutrophils, indicative of a modest capacity for pathogen response tuning. Altogether, our study provides new and comprehensive evidence that the BAL neutrophil proteome is shaped by BM neutrophil maturation as well as subsequent compartmental transitions following lethal influenza infection.
PXD012629	31308178	N-Glycosylation regulates ligand-dependent activation and signaling of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2). 	VEGFR N-glycosylation         .	N-glycosylation, RTK, VEGFR2, glycopeptides, nLC-MS/MS	The tumor microenvironment and proinflammatory signals significantly alter glycosylation of cell-surface proteins on endothelial cells. By altering the N-glycosylation machinery in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi, proinflammatory cytokines promote the modification of endothelial glycoproteins such as vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) with sialic acid-capped N-glycans. VEGFR2 is a highly N-glycosylated receptor tyrosine kinase involved in pro-angiogenic signaling in physiological and pathological contexts, including cancer. Here, using glycoside hydrolase and kinase assays and immunoprecipitation and MS-based analyses, we demonstrate that N-linked glycans at the Asn-247 site in VEGFR2 hinder VEGF ligand-mediated receptor activation and signaling in endothelial cells. We provide evidence that cell surface-associated VEGFR2 displays sialylated N-glycans at Asn-247 and, in contrast, that the nearby sites Asn-145 and Asn-160 contain lower levels of sialylated N-glycans and higher levels of high-mannose N-glycans, respectively. Furthermore, we report that VEGFR2 Asn-247-linked glycans capped with sialic acid oppose ligand-mediated VEGFR2 activation, whereas the uncapped asialo-glycans favor activation of this receptor. We propose that N-glycosylation, specifically the capping of N-glycans at Asn-247 by sialic acid, tunes ligand-dependent activation and signaling of VEGFR2 in endothelial cells.
PXD013972	31308253	Glycan Markers of Human Stem Cells Assigned with Beam Search Arrays. 	Glycan Markers of Human Stem Cells Assigned with Beam Search Arrays	antibody R-10G, beam search array, glycan microarray, human stem cell, keratan sulfate	Glycan antigens recognized by monoclonal antibodies have served as stem cell markers. To understand regulation of their biosynthesis and their roles in stem cell behavior precise assignments are required. We have applied state-of-the-art glycan array technologies to compare the glycans bound by five antibodies that recognize carbohydrates on human stem cells. These are: FC10.2, TRA-1-60, TRA-1-81, anti-i and R-10G. Microarray analyses with a panel of sequence-defined glycans corroborate that FC10.2, TRA-1-60, TRA-1-81 recognize the type 1-(Galbeta-3GlcNAc)-terminating backbone sequence, Galbeta-3GlcNAcbeta-3Galbeta-4GlcNAcbeta-3Galbeta-4GlcNAc, and anti-i, the type 2-(Galbeta-4GlcNAc) analog, Galbeta-4GlcNAcbeta-3Galbeta-4GlcNAcbeta-3Galbeta-4GlcNAc, and we determine substituents they can accommodate. They differ from R-10G, which requires sulfate. By Beam Search approach, starting with an antigen-positive keratan sulfate polysaccharide, followed by targeted iterative microarray analyses of glycan populations released with keratanases and mass spectrometric monitoring, R-10G is assigned as a mono-sulfated type 2 chain with 6-sulfation at the penultimate N-acetylglucosamine, Galbeta-4GlcNAc(6S)beta-3Galbeta-4GlcNAcbeta-3Galbeta-4GlcNAc. Microarray analyses using newly synthesized glycans corroborate the assignment of this unique determinant raising questions regarding involvement as a ligand in the stem cell niche.
PXD011182	31308550	EPIC: software toolkit for elution profile-based inference of protein complexes. 	EPIC: Software Toolkit for Elution Profile-Based Inference of Protein Complexes	Biochemical fractionation, CF/MS, EPIC, Protein complexes, Worm interaction network	Protein complexes are key macromolecular machines of the cell, but their description remains incomplete. We and others previously reported an experimental strategy for global characterization of native protein assemblies based on chromatographic fractionation of biological extracts coupled to precision mass spectrometry analysis (chromatographic fractionation-mass spectrometry, CF-MS), but the resulting data are challenging to process and interpret. Here, we describe EPIC (elution profile-based inference of complexes), a software toolkit for automated scoring of large-scale CF-MS data to define high-confidence multi-component macromolecules from diverse biological specimens. As a case study, we used EPIC to map the global interactome of Caenorhabditis elegans, defining 612 putative worm protein complexes linked to diverse biological processes. These included novel subunits and assemblies unique to nematodes that we validated using orthogonal methods. The open source EPIC software is freely available as a Jupyter notebook packaged in a Docker container (https://hub.docker.com/r/baderlab/bio-epic/).
PXD012110	31308798	Memantine Improves Cognitive Function and Alters Hippocampal and Cortical Proteome in Triple Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease. 	Proteomic profiling of hippocampus and cerebral cortex in triple-transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease: Alterations with memantine treatment, part 2	Alzheimer's disease (AD), Memantine (MEM)	Memantine is a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist clinically approved for moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease (AD) to improve cognitive functions. There is no report about the proteomic alterations induced by memantine in AD mouse model yet. In this study, we investigated the protein profiles in the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex of AD-related transgenic mouse model (3xTg-AD) treated with memantine. Mice (8-month) were treated with memantine (5 mg/kg/bid) for 4 months followed by behavioral and molecular evaluation. Using step-down passive avoidance (SDA) test, novel object recognition (NOR) test and Morris water maze (MWM) test, it was observed that memantine significantly improved learning and memory retention in 3xTg-AD mice. By using quantitative proteomic analysis, 3301 and 3140 proteins in the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex respectively were identified to be associated with AD abnormalities. In the hippocampus, memantine significantly altered the expression levels of 233 proteins, among which PCNT, ATAXIN2, TNIK, and NOL3 were up-regulated, and FLNA, MARK 2 and BRAF were down-regulated. In the cerebral cortex, memantine significantly altered the expression levels of 342 proteins, among which PCNT, PMPCB, CRK, and MBP were up-regulated, and DNM2, BRAF, TAGLN 2 and FRY1 were down-regulated. Further analysis with bioinformatics showed that memantine modulated biological pathways associated with cytoskeleton and ErbB signaling in the hippocampus, and modulated biological pathways associated with axon guidance, ribosome, cytoskeleton, calcium and MAPK signaling in the cerebral cortex. Our data indicate that memantine induces higher levels of proteomic alterations in the cerebral cortex than in the hippocampus, suggesting memantine affects various brain regions in different manners. Our study provides a novel view on the complexity of protein responses induced by memantine in the brain of AD.
PXD011359	31309149	Mutant CEBPA directly drives the expression of the targetable tumor-promoting factor CD73 in AML. 	The p30 isoform of CEBPA uncovers a silent enhancer to drive the expression of the tumor promoting factor CD73 in CEBPA mutant AML	CEBPA, acute myeloid leukemia, global proteomics	The key myeloid transcription factor (TF), CEBPA, is frequently mutated in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), but the direct molecular effects of this leukemic driver mutation remain elusive. To investigate CEBPA mutant AML, we performed microscale, in vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and identified a set of aberrantly activated enhancers, exclusively occupied by the leukemia-associated CEBPA-p30 isoform. Comparing gene expression changes in human CEBPA mutant AML and the corresponding Cebpa (Lp30) mouse model, we identified Nt5e, encoding CD73, as a cross-species AML gene with an upstream leukemic enhancer physically and functionally linked to the gene. Increased expression of CD73, mediated by the CEBPA-p30 isoform, sustained leukemic growth via the CD73/A2AR axis. Notably, targeting of this pathway enhanced survival of AML-transplanted mice. Our data thus indicate a first-in-class link between a cancer driver mutation in a TF and a druggable, direct transcriptional target.
PXD013420	31309829	A Binding Site Hotspot Map of the FKBP12-Rapamycin-FRB Ternary Complex by Photoaffinity Labeling and Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics. 	A binding site hotspot map of the FKBP12-rapamycin-FRB ternary complex by photo-affinity labeling and mass spectrometry-based proteomics	natural product, photo-affinity labeling, structural proteomics	Structural characterization of small molecule binding site hotspots within the global proteome is uniquely enabled by photoaffinity labeling (PAL) coupled with chemical enrichment and unbiased analysis by mass spectrometry (MS). MS-based binding site maps provide structural resolution of interaction sites in conjunction with identification of target proteins. However, binding site hotspot mapping has been confined to relatively simple small molecules to date; extension to more complex compounds would enable the structural definition of new binding modes in the proteome. Here, we extend PAL and MS methods to derive a binding site hotspot map for the immunosuppressant rapamycin, a complex macrocyclic natural product that forms a ternary complex with the proteins FKBP12 and FRB. Photo-rapamycin was developed as a diazirine-based PAL probe for rapamycin, and the FKBP12-photo-rapamycin-FRB ternary complex formed readily in vitro. Photoirradiation, digestion, and MS analysis of the ternary complex revealed a McLafferty rearrangement product of photo-rapamycin conjugated to specific surfaces on FKBP12 and FRB. Molecular modeling based on the binding site map revealed two distinct conformations of complex-bound photo-rapamycin, providing a 5.0 Aa distance constraint between the conjugated residues and the diazirine carbon and a 9.0 Aa labeling radius for the diazirine upon photoactivation. These measurements may be broadly useful in the interpretation of binding site measurements from PAL. Thus, in characterizing the ternary complex of photo-rapamycin by MS, we applied binding site hotspot mapping to a macrocyclic natural product and extracted precise structural measurements for interpretation of PAL products that may enable the discovery of new binding sites in the "undruggable" proteome.
PXD014234	31310053	Anti-tumor effects of PIM/PI3K/mTOR triple kinase inhibitor IBL-302 in neuroblastoma. 	Anti-tumor effects of PIM/PI3K/mTOR triple kinase inhibitor IBL-302 in neuroblastoma	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cisplatin, Human Proteome Project, IBL-302, Multikinase inhibition, Neuroblastoma, PI3K, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	The PI3K pathway is a major driver of cancer progression. However, clinical resistance to PI3K inhibition is common. IBL-302 is a novel highly specific triple PIM, PI3K, and mTOR inhibitor. Screening IBL-302 in over 700 cell lines representing 47 tumor types identified neuroblastoma as a strong candidate for PIM/PI3K/mTOR inhibition. IBL-302 was more effective than single PI3K inhibition in vitro, and IBL-302 treatment of neuroblastoma patient-derived xenograft (PDX) cells induced apoptosis, differentiated tumor cells, and decreased N-Myc protein levels. IBL-302 further enhanced the effect of the common cytotoxic chemotherapies cisplatin, doxorubicin, and etoposide. Global genome, proteome, and phospho-proteome analyses identified crucial biological processes, including cell motility and apoptosis, targeted by IBL-302 treatment. While IBL-302 treatment alone reduced tumor growth in vivo, combination therapy with low-dose cisplatin inhibited neuroblastoma PDX growth. Complementing conventional chemotherapy treatment with PIM/PI3K/mTOR inhibition has the potential to improve clinical outcomes and reduce severe late effects in children with high-risk neuroblastoma.
PXD014175	31310394	A Chemical Proteomic Analysis of Illudin-Interacting Proteins. 	A chemical proteomic analysis of illudin-interacting proteins	Activity based protein profiling, illudins	The illudin natural product family are fungal secondary metabolites with a characteristic spirocyclopropyl-substituted fused 6,5-bicyclic ring system. They have been extensively studied for their cytotoxicity in various tumor cell types, and semisynthetic derivatives with improved therapeutic characteristics have progressed to clinical trials. Although it is believed that this potent alkylating compound class acts mainly through DNA modification, little is known about its binding to protein sites in a cellular context. To reveal putative protein targets of the illudin family in live cancer cells, we employed a semisynthetic strategy to access a series of illudin-based probes for activity-based protein profiling (ABPP). While the probes largely retained potent cytotoxicity, proteomic profiling studies unraveled multiple protein hits, suggesting that illudins exert their mode of action not from addressing a specific protein target but rather from DNA modification and unselective protein binding.
PXD011804	31310545	Discovery and Qualification of Serum Protein Biomarker Candidates for Cholangiocarcinoma Diagnosis. 	Discovery and qualification of serum protein biomarkers for cholangiocarcinoma diagnosis	cholangiocarcinoma, multiple reaction monitoring, serum biomarker discovery pipeline	Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a major health problem in northeastern Thailand. The majority of CCA cases are clinically silent and difficult to detect at an early stage. Although abdominal ultrasonography (US) can detect premalignant periductal fibrosis (PDF), this method is not suitable for screening populations in remote areas. With the goal of developing a blood test for detecting CCA in the at-risk population, we carried out serum protein biomarker discovery and qualification. Label-free shotgun proteomics was performed on depleted serum samples from 30 participants (n = 10 for US-normal, US-PDF, and CCA groups). Of 40 protein candidates selected using multiple reaction monitoring on 90 additional serum samples (n = 30 per group), 11 discriminatory proteins were obtained using supervised multivariate statistical analysis. We further evaluated 3 candidates using ELISA and immunohistochemistry (IHC). S100A9, thioredoxin (TRX), and cadherin-related family member 2 (CDHR2) were significantly different between CCA and normal, and CCA and PDF groups when measured in an additional 247 serum samples (P < 0.0001). By IHC, TRX and CDHR2 were detected in the cytoplasm and nucleus of CCA and inflammatory cells. S100A9 was detected in the infiltrating tumor stroma immune cells. Proteomics discovery and qualification in depleted sera revealed promising biomarker candidates for CCA diagnosis.
PXD013954	31311503	Systematic analysis of the lysine succinylome in the model medicinal mushroom Ganoderma lucidum. 	Systematic analysis of the lysine succinylome in the model medicinal mushroom Ganoderma lucidum	Ganoderma lucidum, lysine succinylome	BACKGROUND: Ganoderma lucidum, one of the best-known medicinal mushrooms in the world, produces more than 400 different bioactive compounds. However, the regulation of these bioactive compounds biosynthesis is still unclear. Lysine succinylation is a critical post-translational modification and has many important functions in all aspects of eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. Although it has been studied for a long time, its function is still unclear in G. lucidum. In this study, a global investigation was carried out on the succinylome in G. lucidum. RESULTS: In total, 382 modified proteins which contain 742 lysine succinylated sites were obtained. The proteomics data are available through ProteomeXchange with the dataset accession number PXD013954. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the succinylated proteins were distributed in various cellular biological processes and participated in a great variety of metabolic pathways including carbon metabolism and biosynthesis of secondary metabolites. Notably, a total of 47 enzymes associated with biosynthesis of triterpenoids and polysaccharides were found to be succinylated. Furthermore, two succinylated sites K90 and K106 were found in the conserved Fve region of immunomodulatory protein LZ8. These observations show that lysine succinylation plays an indispensable role in metabolic regulation of bioactive compounds in G. lucidum. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that lysine succinylation is related to many metabolic pathways, especially pharmacologically bioactive compounds metabolism. This study provides the first global investigation of lysine succinylation in G. lucidum and the succinylome dataset provided in this study serves as a resource to further explore the physiological roles of these modifications in secondary metabolism.
PXD012285	31311848	Bayesian Confidence Intervals for Multiplexed Proteomics Integrate Ion-statistics with Peptide Quantification Concordance. 	Bayesian Confidence Intervals for Multiplexed Proteomics Integrate Ion-Statistics with Peptide Quantification Concordance, part 2	LMB, RNC nucleus, baciq, confidence, cytoplasmic, pvalue	Multiplexed proteomics has emerged as a powerful tool to measure relative protein expression levels across multiple conditions. The relative protein abundances are inferred by comparing the signals generated by isobaric tags, which encode the samples' origins. Intuitively, the trust associated with a protein measurement depends on the similarity of ratios from the protein's peptides and the signal-strength of these measurements. However, typically the average peptide ratio is reported as the estimate of relative protein abundance, which is only the most likely ratio with a very naive model. Moreover, there is no sense on the confidence in these measurements. Here, we present a mathematically rigorous approach that integrates peptide signal strengths and peptide-measurement agreement into an estimation of the true protein ratio and the associated confidence (BACIQ). The main advantages of BACIQ are: (1) It removes the need to threshold reported peptide signal based on an arbitrary cut-off, thereby reporting more measurements from a given experiment; (2) Confidence can be assigned without replicates; (3) For repeated experiments BACIQ provides confidence intervals for the union, not the intersection, of quantified proteins; (4) For repeated experiments, BACIQ confidence intervals are more predictive than confidence intervals based on protein measurement agreement. To demonstrate the power of BACIQ we reanalyzed previously published data on subcellular protein movement on treatment with an Exportin-1 inhibiting drug. We detect ~2x more highly significant movers, down to subcellular localization changes of ~1%. Thus, our method drastically increases the value obtainable from quantitative proteomics experiments, helping researchers to interpret their data and prioritize resources. To make our approach easily accessible we distribute it via a Python/Stan package.
PXD010822	31311849	Stress-induced Changes in the S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation of Synaptic Proteins. 	Stress-induced changes in the S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation of proteins involved in synaptic plasticity	PTMs interplay, cell signaling, nitrosylation palmitoylation, postsynaptic density synapse	The precise regulation of synaptic integrity is critical for neuronal network connectivity and proper brain function. Essential aspects of the activity and localization of synaptic proteins are regulated by posttranslational modifications. S-palmitoylation is a reversible covalent modification of the cysteine with palmitate. It modulates affinity of the protein for cell membranes and membranous compartments. Intracellular palmitoylation dynamics are regulated by crosstalk with other posttranslational modifications, such as S-nitrosylation. S-nitrosylation is a covalent modification of cysteine thiol by nitric oxide and can modulate protein functions. Therefore, simultaneous identification of endogenous site-specific proteomes of both cysteine modifications under certain biological conditions offers new insights into the regulation of functional pathways. Still unclear, however, are the ways in which this crosstalk is affected in brain pathology, such as stress-related disorders. Using a newly developed mass spectrometry-based approach Palmitoylation And Nitrosylation Interplay Monitoring (PANIMoni), we analyzed the endogenous S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation of postsynaptic density proteins at the level of specific single cysteine in a mouse model of chronic stress. Among a total of 813 S-PALM and 620 S-NO cysteine sites that were characterized on 465 and 360 proteins, respectively, we sought to identify those that were differentially affected by stress. Our data show involvement of S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation crosstalk in the regulation of 122 proteins including receptors, scaffolding proteins, regulatory proteins and cytoskeletal components. Our results suggest that atypical crosstalk between the S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation interplay of proteins involved in synaptic transmission, protein localization and regulation of synaptic plasticity might be one of the main events associated with chronic stress disorder, leading to destabilization in synaptic networks.
PXD012858	31312022	Regulation of the unfolded protein response through ATF4 and FAM129A in prostate cancer. 	Global proteome analysis of ATF4 targets during ER stress.	LC-MS, LNCaP cells	Cancer cells exploit many of the cellular adaptive responses to support their survival needs. One such critical pathway in eukaryotic cells is the unfolded protein response (UPR) that is important in normal physiology as well as disease states, including cancer. Since UPR can serve as a lever between survival and death, regulated control of its activity is critical for tumor formation and growth although the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that one of the main transcriptional effectors of UPR, activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4), is essential for prostate cancer (PCa) growth and survival. Using systemic unbiased gene expression and proteomic analyses, we identified a novel direct ATF4 target gene, family with sequence similarity 129 member A (FAM129A), which is critical in mediating ATF4 effects on prostate tumorigenesis. Interestingly, FAM129A regulated both PERK and eIF2alpha in a feedback loop that differentially channeled the UPR output. ATF4 and FAM129A protein expression is increased in patient PCa samples compared with benign prostate. Importantly, in vivo therapeutic silencing of ATF4-FAM129A axis profoundly inhibited tumor growth in a preclinical PCa model. These data support that one of the canonical UPR branches, through ATF4 and its target gene FAM129A, is required for PCa growth and thus may serve as a novel therapeutic target.
PXD011245	31313956	Phosphoproteomic identification of vasopressin V2 receptor-dependent signaling in the renal collecting duct. 	Signaling Pathways in Vasopressin-Mediated Regulation of Aquaporin-2	collecting duct, phosphorylation	Vasopressin controls water balance largely through PKA-dependent effects to regulate the collecting duct water channel aquaporin-2 (AQP2). Although considerable information has accrued regarding the regulation of water and solute transport in collecting duct cells, information is sparse regarding the signaling connections between PKA and transport responses. Here, we exploited recent advancements in protein mass spectrometry to perform a comprehensive, multiple-replicate analysis of changes in the phosphoproteome of native rat inner medullary collecting duct cells in response to the vasopressin V2 receptor-selective agonist 1-desamino-8D-arginine vasopressin. Of the 10,738 phosphopeptides quantified, only 156 phosphopeptides were significantly increased in abundance, and only 63 phosphopeptides were decreased, indicative of a highly selective response to vasopressin. The list of upregulated phosphosites showed several general characteristics: 1) a preponderance of sites with basic (positively charged) amino acids arginine (R) and lysine (K) in position -2 and -3 relative to the phosphorylated amino acid, consistent with phosphorylation by PKA and/or other basophilic kinases; 2) a greater-than-random likelihood of sites previously demonstrated to be phosphorylated by PKA; 3) a preponderance of sites in membrane proteins, consistent with regulation by membrane association; and 4) a greater-than-random likelihood of sites in proteins with class I COOH-terminal PDZ ligand motifs. The list of downregulated phosphosites showed a preponderance of those with proline in position +1 relative to the phosphorylated amino acid, consistent with either downregulation of proline-directed kinases (e.g., MAPKs or cyclin-dependent kinases) or upregulation of one or more protein phosphatases that selectively dephosphorylate such sites (e.g., protein phosphatase 2A). The phosphoproteomic data were used to create a web resource for the investigation of G protein-coupled receptor signaling and regulation of AQP2-mediated water transport.
PXD012086	31314937	Multi-omic analyses of exogenous nutrient bag decomposition by the black morel Morchella importuna reveal sustained carbon acquisition and transferring. 	ENB protein -  Multi-omic analyses of exogenous nutrient bag decomposition by the black morel Morchella importuna reveal sustained carbon acquisition and transferring	Exogenous nutrient bag, Morchella importuna	The black morel (Morchella importuna Kuo, O'Donnell and Volk) was once an uncultivable wild mushroom, until the development of exogenous nutrient bag (ENB), making its agricultural production quite feasible and stable. To date, how the nutritional acquisition of the morel mycelium is fulfilled to trigger its fruiting remains unknown. To investigate the mechanisms involved in ENB decomposition, the genome of a cultivable morel strain (M. importuna SCYDJ1-A1) was sequenced and the genes coding for the decay apparatus were identified. Expression of the encoded carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) was then analyzed by metatranscriptomics and metaproteomics in combination with biochemical assays. The results show that a diverse set of hydrolytic and redox CAZymes secreted by the morel mycelium is the main force driving the substrate decomposition. Plant polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose present in ENB substrate (wheat grains plus rice husks) were rapidly degraded, whereas triglycerides were accumulated initially and consumed later. ENB decomposition led to a rapid increase in the organic carbon content in the surface soil of the mushroom bed, which was thereafter consumed during morel fruiting. In contrast to the high carbon consumption, no significant acquisition of nitrogen was observed. Our findings contribute to an increasingly detailed portrait of molecular features triggering morel fruiting.
PXD010436	31315557	Analysis of networks of host proteins in the early time points following HIV transduction. 	Host cell proteome analysis follwoing HIV-1 transduction	HIV-1, host cell response, label-free quantification, vector	BACKGROUND: Utilization of quantitative proteomics data on the network level is still a challenge in proteomics data analysis. Currently existing models use sophisticated, sometimes hard to implement analysis techniques. Our aim was to generate a relatively simple strategy for quantitative proteomics data analysis in order to utilize as much of the data generated in a proteomics experiment as possible. RESULTS: In this study, we applied label-free proteomics, and generated a network model utilizing both qualitative, and quantitative data, in order to examine the early host response to Human Immunodeficiency Virus type 1 (HIV-1). A weighted network model was generated based on the amount of proteins measured by mass spectrometry, and analysis of weighted networks and functional sub-networks revealed upregulation of proteins involved in translation, transcription, and DNA condensation in the early phase of the viral life-cycle. CONCLUSION: A relatively simple strategy for network analysis was created and applied to examine the effect of HIV-1 on host cellular proteome. We believe that our model may prove beneficial in creating algorithms, allowing for both quantitative and qualitative studies of proteome change in various biological and pathological processes by quantitative mass spectrometry.
PXD008654	31315917	Proteomic Profiling of Paired Interstitial Fluids Reveals Dysregulated Pathways and Salivary NID1 as a Biomarker of Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma. 	Proteomic profiling of paired interstitial fluids revealed dysregulated pathways and salivary NID1 as a biomarker of oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma	aminoacyl tRNA biosynthesis, biomarker, nidogen-1, oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma, saliva, tumor interstitial fluid	Patients with oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) are frequently first diagnosed at an advanced stage, leading to poor prognosis and high mortality rates. Early detection of OSCC using body fluid-accessible biomarkers may improve the prognosis and survival rate of OSCC patients. As tumor interstitial fluid is a proximal fluid enriched with cancer-related proteins, it is a useful reservoir suitable for the discovery of cancer biomarkers and dysregulated biological pathways in tumor microenvironments. Thus, paired interstitial fluids of tumor (TIF) and adjacent noncancerous (NIF) tissues from 10 OSCC patients were harvested and analyzed using one-dimensional gel electrophoresis coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GeLC-MS/MS). Using label-free spectral counting-based quantification, 113 proteins were found to be up-regulated in the TIFs compared with the NIFs. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) revealed that the differentially expressed TIF proteins were highly associated with aminoacyl tRNA biosynthesis pathway. The elevated levels of 4 proteins (IARS, KARS, WARS, and YARS) involved in the aminoacyl tRNA biosynthesis were verified in the OSCC tissues with immunohistochemistry (IHC). In addition, nidogen-1 (NID1) was selected for verification as an OSCC biomarker. Salivary level of NID1 in OSCC patients (n = 48) was significantly higher than that in the healthy individuals (n = 51) and subjects with oral potentially malignant disorder (OPMD; n = 53). IHC analysis showed that NID1 level in OSCC tissues was increased compared with adjacent noncancerous epithelium (n = 222). Importantly, the elevated NID1 level was correlated with the advanced stages of OSCC, as well as the poor survival of OSCC patients. Collectively, the results suggested that TIF analysis facilitates understanding of the OSCC microenvironment and that salivary NID1 may be a useful biomarker for OSCC.
PXD006741	31316063	SPRTN protease and checkpoint kinase 1 cross-activation loop safeguards DNA replication. 	SPARTAN Protease and Checkpoint Kinase 1 Cross-Activation Loop Safeguards Genome Stability	CHK1 kinase, DNA replication, DNA-protein crosslinks, SPARTAN protease, ageing, cancer, genome stability	The SPRTN metalloprotease is essential for DNA-protein crosslink (DPC) repair and DNA replication in vertebrate cells. Cells deficient in SPRTN protease exhibit DPC-induced replication stress and genome instability, manifesting as premature ageing and liver cancer. Here, we provide a body of evidence suggesting that SPRTN activates the ATR-CHK1 phosphorylation signalling cascade during physiological DNA replication by proteolysis-dependent eviction of CHK1 from replicative chromatin. During this process, SPRTN proteolyses the C-terminal/inhibitory part of CHK1, liberating N-terminal CHK1 kinase active fragments. Simultaneously, CHK1 full length and its N-terminal fragments phosphorylate SPRTN at the C-terminal regulatory domain, which stimulates SPRTN recruitment to chromatin to promote unperturbed DNA replication fork progression and DPC repair. Our data suggest that a SPRTN-CHK1 cross-activation loop plays a part in DNA replication and protection from DNA replication stress. Finally, our results with purified components of this pathway further support the proposed model of a SPRTN-CHK1 cross-activation loop.
PXD008238	31316134	In marine Bacteroidetes the bulk of glycan degradation during algae blooms is mediated by few clades using a restricted set of genes. 	Analysis of Polysaccharide Utilization Loci from 53 sequenced North Sea Flavobacteriia suggests that major algal glycans exhibit limited structural diversity	PUL, polysaccharide	We investigated Bacteroidetes during spring algae blooms in the southern North Sea in 2010-2012 using a time series of 38 deeply sequenced metagenomes. Initial partitioning yielded 6455 bins, from which we extracted 3101 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) including 1286 Bacteroidetes MAGs covering ~120 mostly uncultivated species. We identified 13 dominant, recurrent Bacteroidetes clades carrying a restricted set of conserved polysaccharide utilization loci (PULs) that likely mediate the bulk of bacteroidetal algal polysaccharide degradation. The majority of PULs were predicted to target the diatom storage polysaccharide laminarin, alpha-glucans, alpha-mannose-rich substrates, and sulfated xylans. Metaproteomics at 14 selected points in time revealed expression of SusC-like proteins from PULs targeting all of these substrates. Analyses of abundant key players and their PUL repertoires over time furthermore suggested that fewer and simpler polysaccharides dominated early bloom stages, and that more complex polysaccharides became available as blooms progressed.
PXD014458	31316139	Proteogenomic Analysis of Protein Sequence Alterations in Breast Cancer Cells. 	Proteomic breast cancer data set for exploring somatic mutations	Cell lines, somatic mutations	Cancer evolves as a result of an accumulation of mutations and chromosomal aberrations. Developments in sequencing technologies have enabled the discovery and cataloguing of millions of such mutations. The identification of protein-level alterations, typically by using reversed-phase protein arrays or mass spectrometry, has lagged, however, behind gene and transcript-level observations. In this study, we report the use of mass spectrometry for detecting the presence of mutations-missense, indels and frame shifts-in MCF7 and SKBR3 breast cancer, and non-tumorigenic MCF10A cells. The mutations were identified by expanding the database search process of raw mass spectrometry files by including an in-house built database of mutated peptides (XMAn-v1) that complemented a minimally redundant, canonical database of Homo sapiens proteins. The work resulted in the identification of nearly 300 mutated peptide sequences, of which ~50 were characterized by quality tandem mass spectra. We describe the criteria that were used to select the mutated peptide sequences, evaluate the parameters that characterized these peptides, and assess the artifacts that could have led to false peptide identifications. Further, we discuss the functional domains and biological processes that may be impacted by the observed peptide alterations, and how protein-level detection can support the efforts of identifying cancer driving mutations and genes. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014458.
PXD013850	31316483	The ER Lumenal Hsp70 Protein FpLhs1 Is Important for Conidiation and Plant Infection in Fusarium pseudograminearum. 	The ER Lumenal Hsp70 Protein FpLhs1 Is Important for Conidiation and Plant Infection in Fusarium pseudograminearum	Fusarium pseudograminearum	Heat shock protein 70s (Hsp70s) are a class of molecular chaperones that are highly conserved and ubiquitous in organisms ranging from microorganisms to plants and humans. Hsp70s play key roles in cellular development and protecting living organisms from environmental stresses such as heat, drought, salinity, acidity, and cold. However, their functions in pathogenic fungi are largely unknown. Here, a total of 14 FpHsp70 genes were identified in Fusarium pseudograminearum, including 3 in the mitochondria, 7 in the cytoplasm, 2 in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), 1 in the nucleus, and 1 in the plastid. However, the exon-intron boundaries and protein motifs of the FpHsp70 have no consistency in the same subfamily. Expression analysis revealed that most FpHsp70 genes were up-regulated during infection, implying that FpHsp70 genes may play important roles in F. pseudograminearum pathogenicity. Furthermore, knockout of an ER lumenal Hsp70 homolog FpLhs1 gene reduced growth, conidiation, and pathogenicity in F. pseudograminearum. These mutants also showed a defect in secretion of some proteins. Together, FpHsp70s might play essential roles in F. pseudograminearum and FpLhs1 is likely to act on the development and virulence by regulating protein secretion.
PXD010265	31317746	Proteomic Analysis of Restored Insulin Production and Trafficking in Obese Diabetic Mouse Pancreatic Islets Following Euglycemia. 	db/db -  Proteomic Analysis of Restored Insulin Production and Trafficking in Obese Diabetic Mouse Pancreatic Islets Following Euglycemia	beta-cell, db/db, diabetes, obesity, phosphoproteomics	For the treatment of patients with prediabetes or diabetes, clinical evidence has emerged that beta-cell function can be restored by glucose-lowering therapeutic strategies. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying this functional adaptive behavior of the pancreatic beta-cell. This study examines the dynamic changes in protein expression and phosphorylation state associated with (pro)insulin production and secretory pathway function mediated by euglycemia to induce beta-cell rest in obese/diabetic db/db islet beta-cells. Unbiased quantitative profiling of the protein expression and phosphorylation events that occur upon beta-cell adaption during the transition from hyperglycemia to euglycemia was assessed in isolated pancreatic islets from obese diabetic db/db and wild-type (WT) mice using quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics together with bioinformatics analysis. Dynamic changes in the expression and phosphorylation of proteins associated with pancreatic beta-cell (pro)insulin production and complementary regulated-secretory pathway regulation were observed in obese diabetic db/db islets in a hyperglycemic environment, relative to WT mouse islets in a normal euglycemic environment, that resolved when isolated db/db islets were exposed to euglycemia for 12 h in vitro. By similarly treating WT islets in parallel, the effects of tissue culture could be mostly eliminated and only those changes associated with resolution by euglycemia were assessed. Among such regulated protein phosphorylation-dependent signaling events were those associated with COPII-coated vesicle-dependent ER exit, ER-to-Golgi trafficking, clathrin-coat disassembly, and a particular association for the luminal Golgi protein kinase, FAM20C, in control of distal secretory pathway trafficking, sorting, and granule biogenesis. Protein expression and especially phosphorylation play key roles in the regulation of (pro)insulin production, correlative secretory pathway trafficking, and the restoration of beta-cell secretory capacity in the adaptive functional beta-cell response to metabolic demand, especially that mediated by glucose.
PXD014194	31318138	OLFM4 Expression in Ductal Carcinoma In Situ and in Invasive Breast Cancer Cohorts by a SWATH-Based Proteomic Approach. 	OLFM4 expression in breast tumor samples	Breat Cancer, OLFM4, SWATH-MS	Human olfactomedin-4 (OLFM4) is a secreted protein involved in a variety of cellular functions including proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and cell adhesion. OLFM4 expression has been studied in several tumor types including gastric, colorectal, lung, and endometrioid cancers where it has been suggested to be an independent favorable or unfavorable prognostic marker. For breast cancer, the clinical significance of OLFM4 is still unclear. In the present study, SWATH-MS is used as a tool for the robust identification and quantification of breast tissue proteins. SWATH-MS data show that OLFM4 expression is higher in DCIS than in invasive breast cancer. In-depth analysis of the breast tumor proteome show that OLFM4 is a favorable pronostic marker. Serum OLFM4 levels in peripheral blood are also analyzed by ELISA in 825 cases, including 94 cases of healthy individuals, 61 cases of non-invasive breast tumor (DCIS) and 670 cases of breast cancer (BC). It is found that serum OLFM4 levels are significantly higher in the DCIS cohort and in the breast cancer cohort compared with the healthy controls. This result suggests that circulating OLFM4 could be an interesting biomarker of early breast cancer. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014194.
PXD008648	31320637	Activation of neuronal genes via LINE-1 elements upon global DNA demethylation in human neural progenitors. 	Activation of neuronal genes via LINE-1 elements upon global DNA demethylation in human neural progenitors	DNMT1	DNA methylation contributes to the maintenance of genomic integrity in somatic cells, in part through the silencing of transposable elements. In this study, we use CRISPR-Cas9 technology to delete DNMT1, the DNA methyltransferase key for DNA methylation maintenance, in human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs). We observe that inactivation of DNMT1 in hNPCs results in viable, proliferating cells despite a global loss of DNA CpG-methylation. DNA demethylation leads to specific transcriptional activation and chromatin remodeling of evolutionarily young, hominoid-specific LINE-1 elements (L1s), while older L1s and other classes of transposable elements remain silent. The activated L1s act as alternative promoters for many protein-coding genes involved in neuronal functions, revealing a hominoid-specific L1-based transcriptional network controlled by DNA methylation that influences neuronal protein-coding genes. Our results provide mechanistic insight into the role of DNA methylation in silencing transposable elements in somatic human cells, as well as further implicating L1s in human brain development and disease.
PXD011318	31321732	Chronic shisha exposure alters phosphoproteome of oral keratinocytes. 	Chronic shisha exposure alters phosphoproteome of oral keratinocytes	OSCC, Orbitrap Fusion, Waterpipe tobacco smoking, carcinogenesis, high-throughput, hookah, narghile tobacco, oral cancer	Shisha smoking has been epidemiologically linked to oral cancer. However, few studies have investigated the pathobiology of shisha-induced cellular transformation. We studied the effects of chronic shisha exposure (8 months) in an in vitro model using immortalized, non-neoplastic oral keratinocytes (OKF6/TERT1). Quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses were performed on OKF6/TERT1 cells treated with shisha extract for a period of 8 months. Pathway analysis was carried out to identify significantly enriched biological processes in shisha-treated cells. Chronic shisha exposure resulted in increased cell scattering phenomenon in OKF6/TERT1 cells. Data analysis revealed differential phosphorylation of 164 peptides (fold change >=1.5, p <= 0.0.5) corresponding to 136 proteins. Proteins associated with mTORC1 and EIF4F complexes involved in initiating protein translation were seen to be enriched upon shisha treatment. Network analysis also highlighted downregulation of proteins involved in Type I interferon signaling in shisha-treated cells. Quantitative phosphoproteomic approach elucidated global perturbations to the molecular milieu of oral keratinocytes upon shisha exposure. Further studies are needed to validate putative targets in oral cancer patients with shisha smoking history.
PXD012522	31324630	Biopearling of Interconnected Outer Membrane Vesicle Chains by a Marine Flavobacterium. 	Biopearling: Chains of interconnected outer membrane vesicles in a marine flavobacterium	Biopearling, Flavobacteria, Formosa, Outer membrane vesicles, algal blooms	Large surface-to-volume ratios provide optimal nutrient uptake conditions for small microorganisms in oligotrophic habitats. The surface area can be increased with appendages. Here, we describe chains of interconnecting vesicles protruding from cells of strain Hel3_A1_48, affiliating with Formosa spp. within the Flavobacteriia and originating from coastal free-living bacterioplankton. The chains were up to 10 mum long and had vesicles emanating from the outer membrane with a single membrane and a size of 80 to 100 nm by 50 to 80 nm. Cells extruded membrane tubes in the exponential phase, whereas vesicle chains dominated on cells in the stationary growth phase. This formation is known as pearling, a physical morphogenic process in which membrane tubes protrude from liposomes and transform into chains of interconnected vesicles. Proteomes of whole-cell membranes and of detached vesicles were dominated by outer membrane proteins, including the type IX secretion system and surface-attached peptidases, glycoside hydrolases, and endonucleases. Fluorescein-labeled laminarin stained the cells and the vesicle chains. Thus, the appendages provide binding domains and degradative enzymes on their surfaces and probably storage volume in the vesicle lumen. Both may contribute to the high abundance of these Formosa-affiliated bacteria during laminarin utilization shortly after spring algal blooms.IMPORTANCE Microorganisms produce membrane vesicles. One synthesis pathway seems to be pearling that describes the physical formation of vesicle chains from phospholipid vesicles via extended tubes. Bacteria with vesicle chains had been observed as well as bacteria with tubes, but pearling was so far not observed. Here, we report the observation of, initially, tubes and then vesicle chains during the growth of a flavobacterium, suggesting biopearling of vesicle chains. The flavobacterium is abundant during spring bacterioplankton blooms developing after algal blooms and has a special set of enzymes for laminarin, the major storage polysaccharide of microalgae. We demonstrated with fluorescently labeled laminarin that the vesicle chains bind laminarin or contain laminarin-derived compounds. Proteomic analyses revealed surface-attached degradative enzymes on the outer membrane vesicles. We conclude that the large surface area and the lumen of vesicle chains may contribute to the ecological success of this marine bacterium.
PXD013217	31324718	Matrix metalloproteinases inactivate the proinflammatory functions of secreted moonlighting tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase. 	Gel LC-MS/MS analyses of MMP cleavage of tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase	MMP, protease	Tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (WRS) is a cytosolic aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase essential for protein synthesis. WRS is also one of a growing number of intracellular proteins that are attributed distinct noncanonical "moonlighting" functions in the extracellular milieu. Moonlighting aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases regulate processes such as inflammation, but how these multifunctional enzymes are themselves regulated remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that WRS is secreted from human macrophages, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells in response to the proinflammatory cytokine interferon gamma (IFNgamma). WRS signaled primarily through Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) in macrophages, leading to phosphorylation of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB with associated loss of NF-kappaB inhibitor alpha (IkappaB-alpha) protein. This signaling initiated secretion of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and CXCL8 (IL8) from macrophages. We also demonstrated that WRS is a potent monocyte chemoattractant. Of note, WRS increased matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity in the conditioned medium of macrophages in a TNFalpha-dependent manner. Using purified recombinant proteins and LC-MS/MS to identify proteolytic cleavage sites, we demonstrated that multiple MMPs, but primarily macrophage MMP7 and neutrophil MMP8, cleave secreted WRS at several sites. Loss of the WHEP domain following cleavage at Met(48) generated a WRS proteoform that also results from alternative splicing, designated Delta1-47 WRS. The MMP-cleaved WRS lacked TLR signaling and proinflammatory activities. Thus, our results suggest that moonlighting WRS promotes IFNgamma proinflammatory activities, and these responses can be dampened by MMPs.
PXD013267	31324758	Subtype-specific secretomic characterization of pulmonary neuroendocrine tumor cells. 	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Identifies IGFBP5 as a Secreted Marker for ASCL1High Pulmonary Neuroendocrine Tumors	ASCL1, neuroendocrine lung cancer, proteomics and mass spectrometry, secretome, small cell lung cancer	Pulmonary neuroendocrine (NE) cancer, including small cell lung cancer (SCLC), is a particularly aggressive malignancy. The lineage-specific transcription factors Achaete-scute homolog 1 (ASCL1), NEUROD1 and POU2F3 have been reported to identify the different subtypes of pulmonary NE cancers. Using a large-scale mass spectrometric approach, here we perform quantitative secretome analysis in 13 cell lines that signify the different NE lung cancer subtypes. We quantify 1,626 proteins and identify IGFBP5 as a secreted marker for ASCL1(High) SCLC. ASCL1 binds to the E-box elements in IGFBP5 and directly regulates its transcription. Knockdown of ASCL1 decreases IGFBP5 expression, which, in turn, leads to hyperactivation of IGF-1R signaling. Pharmacological co-targeting of ASCL1 and IGF-1R results in markedly synergistic effects in ASCL1(High) SCLC in vitro and in mouse models. We expect that this secretome resource will provide the foundation for future mechanistic and biomarker discovery studies, helping to delineate the molecular underpinnings of pulmonary NE tumors.
PXD012743	31324765	Pptc7 is an essential phosphatase for promoting mammalian mitochondrial metabolism and biogenesis. 	Pptc7 is an essential phosphatase for promoting mammalian mitochondrial metabolism and biogenesis	Mitochondia, Phosphoproteome, Pptc7	Mitochondrial proteins are replete with phosphorylation, yet its functional relevance remains largely unclear. The presence of multiple resident mitochondrial phosphatases, however, suggests that protein dephosphorylation may be broadly important for calibrating mitochondrial activities. To explore this, we deleted the poorly characterized matrix phosphatase Pptc7 from mice using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. Strikingly, Pptc7(-/-) mice exhibit hypoketotic hypoglycemia, elevated acylcarnitines and serum lactate, and die soon after birth. Pptc7(-/-) tissues have markedly diminished mitochondrial size and protein content despite normal transcript levels, and aberrantly elevated phosphorylation on select mitochondrial proteins. Among these, we identify the protein translocase complex subunit Timm50 as a putative Pptc7 substrate whose phosphorylation reduces import activity. We further find that phosphorylation within or near the mitochondrial targeting sequences of multiple proteins could disrupt their import rates and matrix processing. Overall, our data define Pptc7 as a protein phosphatase essential for proper mitochondrial function and biogenesis during the extrauterine transition.
PXD011751	31324771	RNA structure drives interaction with proteins. 	Interference of RNA molecules with protein aggregation in vitro.	RNA granules, RNA interactivity, b-isox	The combination of high-throughput sequencing and in vivo crosslinking approaches leads to the progressive uncovering of the complex interdependence between cellular transcriptome and proteome. Yet, the molecular determinants governing interactions in protein-RNA networks are not well understood. Here we investigated the relationship between the structure of an RNA and its ability to interact with proteins. Analysing in silico, in vitro and in vivo experiments, we find that the amount of double-stranded regions in an RNA correlates with the number of protein contacts. This relationship -which we call structure-driven protein interactivity- allows classification of RNA types, plays a role in gene regulation and could have implications for the formation of phase-separated ribonucleoprotein assemblies. We validate our hypothesis by showing that a highly structured RNA can rearrange the composition of a protein aggregate. We report that the tendency of proteins to phase-separate is reduced by interactions with specific RNAs.
PXD014105	31324785	Acetylation regulates ribonucleotide reductase activity and cancer cell growth. 	Deng Lab RRM2 Acetylation Study	Deng RRM2 Acetylation	Ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) catalyzes the de novo synthesis of deoxyribonucleoside diphosphates (dNDPs) to provide dNTP precursors for DNA synthesis. Here, we report that acetylation and deacetylation of the RRM2 subunit of RNR acts as a molecular switch that impacts RNR activity, dNTP synthesis, and DNA replication fork progression. Acetylation of RRM2 at K95 abrogates RNR activity by disrupting its homodimer assembly. RRM2 is directly acetylated by KAT7, and deacetylated by Sirt2, respectively. Sirt2, which level peak in S phase, sustains RNR activity at or above a threshold level required for dNTPs synthesis. We also find that radiation or camptothecin-induced DNA damage promotes RRM2 deacetylation by enhancing Sirt2-RRM2 interaction. Acetylation of RRM2 at K95 results in the reduction of the dNTP pool, DNA replication fork stalling, and the suppression of tumor cell growth in vitro and in vivo. This study therefore identifies acetylation as a regulatory mechanism governing RNR activity.
PXD011366	31324866	Large-scale Discovery of Substrates of the Human Kinome. 	Large-scale Discovery of Substrates of the Human Kinome	HeLa, Homo sapiens, in vitro kinase assay	Kinase networks are important for cellular signal transduction. Despite tremendous efforts to uncover these signaling pathways, huge numbers of uncharacterized phosphosites still remain in the human proteome. Because of the transient nature of kinase-substrate interactions in vivo, it is almost impossible to identify direct substrates. Here, we present a strategy for the rapid, accurate and high-throughput discovery of in vitro kinase substrates using quantitative proteomics. Using 385 purified kinases (354 wild-type protein kinases, 21 mutants and 10 lipid kinases), we identified a total of 175,574 potential direct kinase substrates. In addition, we identified novel kinase groups, such as one group containing 30 threonine-directed kinases and another containing 15 serine/threonine/tyrosine kinases. Surprisingly, we observed that the diversity of substrates for tyrosine kinases was much higher than that for serine-threonine kinases.
PXD013544	31325184	The MPK8-TCP14 pathway promotes seed germination in Arabidopsis. 	The MPK8-TCP14 pathway promotes seed germination in Arabidopsis	dormancy, germination, phosphorylation, seed	The accurate control of dormancy release and germination is critical for successful plantlet establishment. Investigations in cereals hypothesized a crucial role for specific MAP kinase (MPK) pathways in promoting dormancy release, although the identity of the MPK involved and the downstream events remain unclear. In this work, we characterized mutants for Arabidopsis thaliana MAP kinase 8 (MPK8). Mpk8 seeds presented a deeper dormancy than wild-type (WT) at harvest that was less efficiently alleviated by after-ripening and gibberellic acid treatment. We identified Teosinte Branched1/Cycloidea/Proliferating cell factor 14 (TCP14), a transcription factor regulating germination, as a partner of MPK8. Mpk8 tcp14 double-mutant seeds presented a deeper dormancy at harvest than WT and mpk8, but similar to that of tcp14 seeds. MPK8 interacted with TCP14 in the nucleus in vivo and phosphorylated TCP14 in vitro. Furthermore, MPK8 enhanced TCP14 transcriptional activity when co-expressed in tobacco leaves. Nevertheless, the stimulation of TCP14 transcriptional activity by MPK8 could occur independently of TCP14 phosphorylation. The comparison of WT, mpk8 and tcp14 transcriptomes evidenced that whereas no effect was observed in dry seeds, mpk8 and tcp14 mutants presented dramatic transcriptomic alterations after imbibition with a sustained expression of genes related to seed maturation. Moreover, both mutants exhibited repression of genes involved in cell wall remodeling and cell cycle G1/S transition. As a whole, this study unraveled a role for MPK8 in promoting seed germination, and suggested that its interaction with TCP14 was critical for regulating key processes required for germination completion.
PXD012309	31325608	Shotgun proteomic analysis of Bordetella parapertussis provides insights into the physiological response to iron starvation and potential new virulence determinants absent in Bordetella pertussis. 	Bordetella parapertussis shotgun proteomic analysis reveals physiological response to iron starvation and potential new virulence determinants absent in Bordetella pertussis	Bordetella parapertussis, iron limitation, shotgun proteomics	Bordetella parapertussis is one of the pathogens that cause whooping cough. Even though its incidence has been rising in the last decades, this species remained poorly investigated. This study reports the first extensive proteome analysis of this bacterium. In an attempt to gain some insight into the infective phenotype, we evaluated the response of B. parapertussis to iron starvation, a critical stress the bacteria face during infection. Among other relevant findings, we observed that the adaptation to this condition involves significant changes in the abundance of two important virulence factors of this pathogen, namely, adenylate cyclase and the O-antigen. We further used the proteomic data to search for B. parapertussis proteins that are absent or classified as pseudogenes in the genome of Bordetella pertussis to unravel differences between both whooping cough causative agents. Among them, we identified proteins involved in stress resistance and virulence determinants that might help to explain the differences in the pathogenesis of these species and the lack of cross-protection of current acellular vaccines. Altogether, these results contribute to a better understanding of B. parapertussis biology and pathogenesis. SIGNIFICANCE: Whooping cough is a reemerging disease caused by both Bordetella pertussis and Bordetella parapertussis. Current vaccines fail to induce protection against B parapertussis and the incidence of this species has been rising over the years. The proteomic analysis of this study provided relevant insights into potential virulence determinants of this poorly-studied pathogen. It further identified proteins produced by B. parapertussis not present in B. pertussis, which might help to explain both the differences on their respective infectious process and the current vaccine failure. Altogether, the results of this study contribute to the better understanding of B. parapertussis pathogenesis and the eventual design of improved preventive strategies against whooping cough.
PXD014473	31326538	The Hippo network kinase STK38 contributes to protein homeostasis by inhibiting BAG3-mediated autophagy. 	Interactome of overexpressed BAG3 in HEK293T cells	BAG3, HA-IP, LTQ Velos	Chaperone-assisted selective autophagy (CASA) initiated by the cochaperone Bcl2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3) represents an important mechanism for the disposal of misfolded and damaged proteins in mammalian cells. Under mechanical stress, the cochaperone cooperates with the small heat shock protein HSPB8 and the cytoskeleton-associated protein SYNPO2 to degrade force-unfolded forms of the actin-crosslinking protein filamin. This is essential for muscle maintenance in flies, fish, mice and men. Here, we identify the serine/threonine protein kinase 38 (STK38), which is part of the Hippo signaling network, as a novel interactor of BAG3. STK38 was previously shown to facilitate cytoskeleton assembly and to promote mitophagy as well as starvation and detachment induced autophagy. Significantly, our study reveals that STK38 exerts an inhibitory activity on BAG3-mediated autophagy. Inhibition relies on a disruption of the functional interplay of BAG3 with HSPB8 and SYNPO2 upon binding of STK38 to the cochaperone. Of note, STK38 attenuates CASA independently of its kinase activity, whereas previously established regulatory functions of STK38 involve target phosphorylation. The ability to exert different modes of regulation on central protein homeostasis (proteostasis) machineries apparently allows STK38 to coordinate the execution of diverse macroautophagy pathways and to balance cytoskeleton assembly and degradation.
PXD013377	31328167	Protein lysine de-2-hydroxyisobutyrylation by CobB in prokaryotes. 	Lysine 2-hyroxyisobutyrylome, acetylome and succinylome in prokaryotes	2-hyroxyisobutyrylome, Lysine, acetylome, prokaryotes, succinylome	Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) has recently been shown to be an evolutionarily conserved histone mark. Here, we report that CobB serves as a lysine de-2-hydroxyisobutyrylation enzyme that regulates glycolysis and cell growth in prokaryotes. We identified the specific binding of CobB to Khib using a novel self-assembled multivalent photocrosslinking peptide probe and demonstrated that CobB can catalyze lysine de-2-hydroxyisobutyrylation both in vivo and in vitro. R58 of CobB is a critical site for its de-2-hydroxyisobutyrylase activity. Using a quantitative proteomics approach, we identified 99 endogenous substrates that are targeted by CobB for de-2-hydroxyisobutyrylation. We further demonstrated that CobB can regulate the catalytic activities of enolase (ENO) by removing K343hib and K326ac of ENO simultaneously, which account for changes of bacterial growth. In brief, our study dissects a Khib-mediated molecular mechanism that is catalyzed by CobB for the regulation of the activity of metabolic enzymes as well as the cell growth of bacteria.
PXD010587	31328383	MS2-Deisotoper: A Tool for Deisotoping High-Resolution MS/MS Spectra in Normal and Heavy Isotope-Labelled Samples. 	MS2-Deisotoper: A tool for deisotoping high-resolution MS/MS spectra in normal and heavy isotope-labelled samples	SILAC, deisotoping, monoisotopic mass, protein identification, proteomic software, tandem mass spectrometry	High-resolution MS/MS spectra of peptides can be deisotoped to identify monoisotopic masses of peptide fragments. The use of such masses should improve protein identification rates. However, deisotoping is not universally used and its benefits have not been fully explored. Here, MS2-Deisotoper, a tool for use prior to database search, is used to identify monoisotopic peaks in centroided MS/MS spectra. MS2-Deisotoper works by comparing the mass and relative intensity of each peptide fragment peak to every other peak of greater mass, and by applying a set of rules concerning mass and intensity differences. After comprehensive parameter optimization, it is shown that MS2-Deisotoper can improve the number of peptide spectrum matches (PSMs) identified by up to 8.2% and proteins by up to 2.8%. It is effective with SILAC and non-SILAC MS/MS data. The identification of unique peptide sequences is also improved, increasing the number of human proteoforms by 3.7%. Detailed investigation of results shows that deisotoping increases Mascot ion scores, improves FDR estimation for PSMs, and leads to greater protein sequence coverage. At a peptide level, it is found that the efficacy of deisotoping is affected by peptide mass and charge. MS2-Deisotoper can be used via a user interface or as a command-line tool.
PXD013755	31328803	Nitric oxide maintains endothelial redox homeostasis through PKM2 inhibition. 	Identification of NOS3 interacting proteins	eNOS, vascular biology	Decreased nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability and oxidative stress are hallmarks of endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular diseases. Although numerous proteins are S-nitrosated, whether and how changes in protein S-nitrosation influence endothelial function under pathophysiological conditions remains unknown. We report that active endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) interacts with and S-nitrosates pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), which reduces PKM2 activity. PKM2 inhibition increases substrate flux through the pentose phosphate pathway to generate reducing equivalents (NADPH and GSH) and protect against oxidative stress. In mice, the Tyr656 to Phe mutation renders eNOS insensitive to inactivation by oxidative stress and prevents the decrease in PKM2 S-nitrosation and reducing equivalents, thereby delaying cardiovascular disease development. These findings highlight a novel mechanism linking NO bioavailability to antioxidant responses in endothelial cells through S-nitrosation and inhibition of PKM2.
PXD011226	31329577	N-terminal beta-strand underpins biochemical specialization of an ATG8 isoform. 	Potato ATG8 interactome -  N-terminal beta-strand underpins biochemical specialization of an ATG8 isoform	ATG8, Nicotiana benthamiana, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, autophagy, plant	Autophagy-related protein 8 (ATG8) is a highly conserved ubiquitin-like protein that modulates autophagy pathways by binding autophagic membranes and a number of proteins, including cargo receptors and core autophagy components. Throughout plant evolution, ATG8 has expanded from a single protein in algae to multiple isoforms in higher plants. However, the degree to which ATG8 isoforms have functionally specialized to bind distinct proteins remains unclear. Here, we describe a comprehensive protein-protein interaction resource, obtained using in planta immunoprecipitation (IP) followed by mass spectrometry (MS), to define the potato ATG8 interactome. We discovered that ATG8 isoforms bind distinct sets of plant proteins with varying degrees of overlap. This prompted us to define the biochemical basis of ATG8 specialization by comparing two potato ATG8 isoforms using both in vivo protein interaction assays and in vitro quantitative binding affinity analyses. These experiments revealed that the N-terminal beta-strand-and, in particular, a single amino acid polymorphism-underpins binding specificity to the substrate PexRD54 by shaping the hydrophobic pocket that accommodates this protein's ATG8-interacting motif (AIM). Additional proteomics experiments indicated that the N-terminal beta-strand shapes the broader ATG8 interactor profiles, defining interaction specificity with about 80 plant proteins. Our findings are consistent with the view that ATG8 isoforms comprise a layer of specificity in the regulation of selective autophagy pathways in plants.
PXD014362	31330532	Inhibition of bacterial ubiquitin ligases by SidJ-calmodulin catalysed glutamylation. 	Analysis of SdeA modification by SidJ	Glutamylation, Legionella pneumophila	The family of bacterial SidE enzymes catalyses phosphoribosyl-linked serine ubiquitination and promotes infectivity of Legionella pneumophila, a pathogenic bacteria that causes Legionnaires' disease(1-3). SidE enzymes share the genetic locus with the Legionella effector SidJ that spatiotemporally opposes the toxicity of these enzymes in yeast and mammalian cells, through a mechanism that is currently unknown(4-6). Deletion of SidJ leads to a substantial defect in the growth of Legionella in both its natural hosts (amoebae) and in mouse macrophages(4,5). Here we demonstrate that SidJ is a glutamylase that modifies the catalytic glutamate in the mono-ADP ribosyl transferase domain of the SdeA, thus blocking the ubiquitin ligase activity of SdeA. The glutamylation activity of SidJ requires interaction with the eukaryotic-specific co-factor calmodulin, and can be regulated by intracellular changes in Ca(2+) concentrations. The cryo-electron microscopy structure of SidJ in complex with human apo-calmodulin revealed the architecture of this heterodimeric glutamylase. We show that, in cells infected with L. pneumophila, SidJ mediates the glutamylation of SidE enzymes on the surface of vacuoles that contain Legionella. We used quantitative proteomics to uncover multiple host proteins as putative targets of SidJ-mediated glutamylation. Our study reveals the mechanism by which SidE ligases are inhibited by a SidJ-calmodulin glutamylase, and opens avenues for exploring an understudied protein modification (glutamylation) in eukaryotes.
PXD014606	31331834	Quantitative proteomics reveals reduction of endocytic machinery components in gliomas. 	Glioma Proteome explored by LC/MS/MS	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Brain, Cancer, Endocytosis, Glioblastoma, Glioma, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	BACKGROUND: Gliomas are the most frequent and aggressive malignancies of the central nervous system. Decades of molecular analyses have demonstrated that gliomas accumulate genetic alterations that culminate in enhanced activity of receptor tyrosine kinases and downstream mediators. While the genetic alterations, like gene amplification or loss, have been well characterized, little information exists about changes in the proteome of gliomas of different grades. METHODS: We performed unbiased quantitative proteomics of human glioma biopsies by mass spectrometry followed by bioinformatic analysis. FINDINGS: Various pathways were found to be up- or downregulated. In particular, endocytosis as pathway was affected by a vast and concomitant reduction of multiple machinery components involved in initiation, formation, and scission of endocytic carriers. Both clathrin-dependent and -independent endocytosis were changed, since not only clathrin, AP-2 adaptins, and endophilins were downregulated, but also dynamin that is shared by both pathways. The reduction of endocytic machinery components caused increased receptor cell surface levels, a prominent phenotype of defective endocytosis. Analysis of additional biopsies revealed that depletion of endocytic machinery components was a common trait of various glioma grades and subclasses. INTERPRETATION: We propose that impaired endocytosis creates a selective advantage in glioma tumor progression due to prolonged receptor tyrosine kinase signaling from the cell surface. FUND: This work was supported by Grants 316030-164105 (to P. Jenoe), 31003A-162643 (to M. Spiess) and PP00P3-176974 (to G. Hutter) from the Swiss National Science Foundation. Further funding was received by the Department of Surgery from the University Hospital Basel.
PXD012956	31331957	Peptidyl-Prolyl Isomerase ppiB Is Essential for Proteome Homeostasis and Virulence in Burkholderia pseudomallei. 	Role of ppiB in burkholderia pseudomallei	LFQ, burkholderia pseudomallei	Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of melioidosis, a disease endemic to Southeast Asia and northern Australia. Mortality rates in these areas are high even with antimicrobial treatment, and there are few options for effective therapy. Therefore, there is a need to identify antibacterial targets for the development of novel treatments. Cyclophilins are a family of highly conserved enzymes important in multiple cellular processes. Cyclophilins catalyze the cis-trans isomerization of xaa-proline bonds, a rate-limiting step in protein folding which has been shown to be important for bacterial virulence. B. pseudomallei carries a putative cyclophilin B gene, ppiB, the role of which was investigated. A B. pseudomalleiDeltappiB (BpsDeltappiB) mutant strain demonstrates impaired biofilm formation and reduced motility. Macrophage invasion and survival assays showed that although the BpsDeltappiB strain retained the ability to infect macrophages, it had reduced survival and lacked the ability to spread cell to cell, indicating ppiB is essential for B. pseudomallei virulence. This is reflected in the BALB/c mouse infection model, demonstrating the requirement of ppiB for in vivo disease dissemination and progression. Proteomic analysis demonstrates that the loss of PpiB leads to pleiotropic effects, supporting the role of PpiB in maintaining proteome homeostasis. The loss of PpiB leads to decreased abundance of multiple virulence determinants, including flagellar machinery and alterations in type VI secretion system proteins. In addition, the loss of ppiB leads to increased sensitivity toward multiple antibiotics, including meropenem and doxycycline, highlighting ppiB inhibition as a promising antivirulence target to both treat B. pseudomallei infections and increase antibiotic efficacy.
PXD007647	31332059	Upregulation of PBP1B and LpoB in cysB Mutants Confers Mecillinam (Amdinocillin) Resistance in Escherichia coli. 	Global protein expression profiles of laboratory isolated mutants of E. coli K12, MG1655	Escherichia coli, Orbitrap Fusion, Q Exactive, TMT, Tandem mass tag, antibiotic resistance, microbiology	Mecillinam (amdinocillin) is a beta-lactam antibiotic that inhibits the essential penicillin-binding protein 2 (PBP2). In clinical isolates of Escherichia coli from urinary tract infections, inactivation of the cysB gene (which encodes the main regulator of cysteine biosynthesis, CysB) is the major cause of resistance. How a nonfunctional CysB protein confers resistance is unknown, however, and in this study we wanted to examine the mechanism of resistance. Results show that cysB mutations cause a gene regulatory response that changes the expression of ~450 genes. Among the proteins that show increased levels are the PBP1B, LpoB, and FtsZ proteins, which are known to be involved in peptidoglycan biosynthesis. Artificial overexpression of either PBP1B or LpoB in a wild-type E. coli strain conferred mecillinam resistance; conversely, inactivation of either the mrcB gene (which encodes PBP1B) or the lpoB gene (which encodes the PBP1B activator LpoB) made cysB mutants susceptible. These results show that expression of the proteins PBP1B and LpoB is both necessary and sufficient to confer mecillinam resistance. The addition of reducing agents to a cysB mutant converted it to full susceptibility, with associated downregulation of PBP1B, LpoB, and FtsZ. We propose a model in which cysB mutants confer mecillinam resistance by inducing a response that causes upregulation of the PBP1B and LpoB proteins. The higher levels of these two proteins can then rescue cells with mecillinam-inhibited PBP2. Our results also show how resistance can be modulated by external conditions such as reducing agents.
PXD014081	31332168	Identification of intracellular cavin target proteins reveals cavin-PP1alpha interactions regulate apoptosis. 	Identification of Cavin3-interacting proteins	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), caveolae. cavinteractome	Caveolae are specialized domains of the plasma membrane. Formation of these invaginations is dependent on the expression of Caveolin-1 or -3 and proteins of the cavin family. In response to stress, caveolae disassemble and cavins are released from caveolae, allowing cavins to potentially interact with intracellular targets. Here, we describe the intracellular (non-plasma membrane) cavin interactome using biotin affinity proteomics and mass spectrometry. We validate 47 potential cavin-interactor proteins using a cell-free expression system and protein-protein binding assays. These data, together with pathway analyses, reveal unknown roles for cavin proteins in metabolism and stress signaling. We validated the interaction between one candidate interactor protein, protein phosphatase 1 alpha (PP1alpha), and Cavin-1 and -3 and show that UV treatment causes release of Cavin3 from caveolae allowing interaction with, and inhibition of, PP1alpha. This interaction increases H2AX phosphorylation to stimulate apoptosis, identifying a pro-apoptotic signaling pathway from surface caveolae to the nucleus.
PXD013506	31332310	Membrane organization of photosystem I complexes in the most abundant phototroph on Earth. 	Proteomic comparison of Prochlorococcus marinus ecotypes MED4, MIT9319 and SS120.	Cytochrome b6f, Pcb proteins, Photosystem I, Photosystem II, Prochlorococcus marinus	Prochlorococcus is a major contributor to primary production, and globally the most abundant photosynthetic genus of picocyanobacteria because it can adapt to highly stratified low-nutrient conditions that are characteristic of the surface ocean. Here, we examine the structural adaptations of the photosynthetic thylakoid membrane that enable different Prochlorococcus ecotypes to occupy high-light, low-light and nutrient-poor ecological niches. We used atomic force microscopy to image the different photosystem I (PSI) membrane architectures of the MED4 (high-light) Prochlorococcus ecotype grown under high-light and low-light conditions in addition to the MIT9313 (low-light) and SS120 (low-light) Prochlorococcus ecotypes grown under low-light conditions. Mass spectrometry quantified the relative abundance of PSI, photosystem II (PSII) and cytochrome b6f complexes and the various Pcb proteins in the thylakoid membrane. Atomic force microscopy topographs and structural modelling revealed a series of specialized PSI configurations, each adapted to the environmental niche occupied by a particular ecotype. MED4 PSI domains were loosely packed in the thylakoid membrane, whereas PSI in the low-light MIT9313 is organized into a tightly packed pseudo-hexagonal lattice that maximizes harvesting and trapping of light. There are approximately equal levels of PSI and PSII in MED4 and MIT9313, but nearly twofold more PSII than PSI in SS120, which also has a lower content of cytochrome b6f complexes. SS120 has a different tactic to cope with low-light levels, and SS120 thylakoids contained hundreds of closely packed Pcb-PSI supercomplexes that economize on the extra iron and nitrogen required to assemble PSI-only domains. Thus, the abundance and widespread distribution of Prochlorococcus reflect the strategies that various ecotypes employ for adapting to limitations in light and nutrient levels.
PXD013432	31332387	Evolutionary compaction and adaptation visualized by the structure of the dormant microsporidian ribosome. 	Evolutionary compaction and adaptation visualized by the structure of the dormant microsporidian ribosome	Microsporidia, Vairimorpha necatrix, cryo-EM, ribosome	Microsporidia are eukaryotic parasites that infect essentially all animal species, including many of agricultural importance(1-3), and are significant opportunistic parasites of humans(4). They are characterized by having a specialized infection apparatus, an obligate intracellular lifestyle(5), rudimentary mitochondria and the smallest known eukaryotic genomes(5-7). Extreme genome compaction led to minimal gene sizes affecting even conserved ancient complexes such as the ribosome(8-10). In the present study, the cryo-electron microscopy structure of the ribosome from the microsporidium Vairimorpha necatrix is presented, which illustrates how genome compaction has resulted in the smallest known eukaryotic cytoplasmic ribosome. Selection pressure led to the loss of two ribosomal proteins and removal of essentially all eukaryote-specific ribosomal RNA (rRNA) expansion segments, reducing the rRNA to a functionally conserved core. The structure highlights how one microsporidia-specific and several repurposed existing ribosomal proteins compensate for the extensive rRNA reduction. The microsporidian ribosome is kept in an inactive state by two previously uncharacterized dormancy factors that specifically target the functionally important E-site, P-site and polypeptide exit tunnel. The present study illustrates the distinct effects of evolutionary pressure on RNA and protein-coding genes, provides a mechanism for ribosome inhibition and can serve as a structural basis for the development of inhibitors against microsporidian parasites.
PXD013330	31332980	In-Depth, Proteomic Analysis of Nasal Secretions from Patients With Chronic Rhinosinusitis and Nasal Polyps. 	In-depth proteomic analysis of nasal secretions from chronic rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps	Chronic rhinosinusitis, Label-free quantification, Nasal secretion, nasal polyps	PURPOSE: Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a complex immunological condition, and novel experimental modalities are required to explore various clinical and pathophysiological endotypes; mere evaluation of nasal polyp (NP) status is inadequate. Therefore, we collected patient nasal secretions on filter paper and characterized the proteomes. METHODS: We performed liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (MS)/MS in the data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and data-independent acquisition (DIA) modes. Nasal secretions were collected from 10 controls, 10 CRS without NPs (CRSsNP) and 10 CRS with NPs (CRSwNP). We performed Orbitrap MS-based proteomic analysis in the DDA (5 controls, 5 CRSsNP and 5 CRSwNP) and the DIA (5 controls, 5 CRSsNP and 5 CRSwNP) modes, followed by a statistical analysis and a hierarchical clustering to identify differentially expressed proteins in the 3 groups. RESULTS: We identified 2,020 proteins in nasal secretions. Canonical pathway analysis and gene ontology (GO) evaluation revealed that interleukin (IL)-7, IL-9, IL-17A and IL-22 signaling and neutrophil-mediated immune responses like neutrophil degranulation and activation were significantly increased in CRSwNP compared to control. The GO terms related to the iron ion metabolism that may be associated with CRS and NP development. CONCLUSIONS: Collection of nasal secretions on the filter paper is a practical and non-invasive method for in-depth study of nasal proteomics. Our proteomic signatures also support that Asian NPs could be characterized as non-eosinophilic inflammation features. Therefore, the proteomic profiling of nasal secretions from CRS patients may enhance our understanding of CRS endotypes.
PXD008894	31333417	PARK2 Mutation Causes Metabolic Disturbances and Impaired Survival of Human iPSC-Derived Neurons. 	Proteomic characterisation of lysosomal and mitochondrial perturbations in human iPSC-derived neurons with PARK2 mutation	PARK2, TMT, iPSC, mitochondria	The protein parkin, encoded by the PARK2 gene, is vital for mitochondrial homeostasis, and although it has been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD), the disease mechanisms remain unclear. We have applied mass spectrometry-based proteomics to investigate the effects of parkin dysfunction on the mitochondrial proteome in human isogenic induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons with and without PARK2 knockout (KO). The proteomic analysis quantified nearly 60% of all mitochondrial proteins, 119 of which were dysregulated in neurons with PARK2 KO. The protein changes indicated disturbances in oxidative stress defense, mitochondrial respiration and morphology, cell cycle control, and cell viability. Structural and functional analyses revealed an increase in mitochondrial area and the presence of elongated mitochondria as well as impaired glycolysis and lactate-supported respiration, leading to an impaired cell survival in PARK2 KO neurons. This adds valuable insight into the effect of parkin dysfunction in human neurons and provides knowledge of disease-related pathways that can potentially be targeted for therapeutic intervention.
PXD010559	31335145	Proteomic Analysis of Plasmodium Merosomes: The Link between Liver and Blood Stages in Malaria. 	Proteome of the rodent malaria parasite Plasmodium berghei liver stage merosomes	Malaria Host-Pathogen Interaction Center (MaHPIC), Plasmodium, ProteomeXchange project tag: Liver (B/D-HPP), malaria, merosomes	The pre-erythrocytic liver stage of the malaria parasite, comprising sporozoites and the liver stages into which they develop, remains one of the least understood parts of the lifecycle, in part owing to the low numbers of parasites. Nonetheless, it is recognized as an important target for antimalarial drugs and vaccines. Here we provide the first proteomic analysis of merosomes, which define the final phase of the liver stage and are responsible for initiating the blood stage of infection. We identify a total of 1879 parasite proteins, and a core set of 1188 proteins quantitatively detected in every biological replicate, providing an extensive picture of the protein repertoire of this stage. This unique data set will allow us to explore key questions about the biology of merosomes and hepatic merozoites.
PXD012878	31335899	Dafachronic acid promotes larval development in Haemonchus contortus by modulating dauer signalling and lipid metabolism. 	Proteomic analysis of dafachronic acid-associated alterations in Haemonchus contortus	Dafachronic acid, Dauer, Development, Haemonchus contortus	Here, we discovered an endogenous dafachronic acid (DA) in the socioeconomically important parasitic nematode Haemonchus contortus. We demonstrate that DA promotes larval exsheathment and development in this nematode via a relatively conserved nuclear hormone receptor (DAF-12). This stimulatory effect is dose- and time-dependent, and relates to a modulation of dauer-like signalling, and glycerolipid and glycerophospholipid metabolism, likely via a negative feedback loop. Specific chemical inhibition of DAF-9 (cytochrome P450) was shown to significantly reduce the amount of endogenous DA in H. contortus; compromise both larval exsheathment and development in vitro; and modulate lipid metabolism. Taken together, this evidence shows that DA plays a key functional role in the developmental transition from the free-living to the parasitic stage of H. contortus by modulating the dauer-like signalling pathway and lipid metabolism. Understanding the intricacies of the DA-DAF-12 system and associated networks in H. contortus and related parasitic nematodes could pave the way to new, nematode-specific treatments.
PXD013795	31336272	Multi-omic Dissection of Oncogenically Active Epiproteomes Identifies Drivers of Proliferative and Invasive Breast Tumors. 	Multi-omic dissection of oncogenically active epiproteomes identifies drivers of proliferative or invasive breast tumors	Breast Cancer, Cell Lines, ChaC, Tissue	Proliferative and invasive breast tumors evolve heterogeneously in individual patients, posing significant challenges in identifying new druggable targets for precision, effective therapy. Here we present a functional multi-omics method, interaction-Correlated Multi-omic Aberration Patterning (iC-MAP), which dissects intra-tumor heterogeneity and identifies in situ the oncogenic consequences of multi-omics aberrations that drive proliferative and invasive tumors. First, we perform chromatin activity-based chemoproteomics (ChaC) experiments on breast cancer (BC) patient tissues to identify genetic/transcriptomic alterations that manifest as oncogenically active proteins. ChaC employs a biotinylated small molecule probe that specifically binds to the oncogenically active histone methyltransferase G9a, enabling sorting/enrichment of a G9a-interacting protein complex that represents the predominant BC subtype in a tissue. Second, using patient transcriptomic/genomic data, we retrospectively identified some G9a interactor-encoding genes that showed individualized iC-MAP. Our iC-MAP findings represent both new diagnostic/prognostic markers to identify patient subsets with incurable metastatic disease and targets to create individualized therapeutic strategies.
PXD009201	31337208	Deep Profiling of the Cleavage Specificity and Human Substrates of Snake Venom Metalloprotease HF3 by Proteomic Identification of Cleavage Site Specificity (PICS) Using Proteome Derived Peptide Libraries and Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS) N-Terminomics. 	A systemic view of active site specificity profiling of the snake venom metalloprotease HF3 using Proteomic Identification of Cleavage Sites and N-terminomics TAILS	HF3, N-terminome, TAILS, degradomics, snake venom, snake venom metalloprotease	Snakebite is a major medical concern in many parts of the world with metalloproteases playing important roles in the pathological effects of Viperidae venoms, including local tissue damage, hemorrhage, and coagulopathy. Hemorrhagic Factor 3 (HF3), a metalloprotease from Bothrops jararaca venom, induces local hemorrhage and targets extracellular matrix (ECM) components, including collagens and proteoglycans, and plasma proteins. However, the full substrate repertoire of this metalloprotease is unknown. We report positional proteomic studies identifying >2000 N-termini, including neo-N-termini of HF3 cleavage sites in mouse embryonic fibroblast secretome proteins. Terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS) analysis identified a preference for Leu at the P1' position among candidate HF3 substrates including proteins of the ECM and focal adhesions and the cysteine protease inhibitor cystatin-C. Interestingly, 190 unique peptides matched to annotated cleavage sites in the TopFIND N-termini database, suggesting that these cleavages occurred at a site prone to cleavage or might have been generated by other proteases activated upon incubation with HF3, including caspases-3 and -7, cathepsins D and E, granzyme B, and MMPs 2 and 9. Using Proteomic identification of cleavage site specificity (PICS), a tryptic library derived from THP-1 monocytic cells was used as HF3 substrates for identifying protease cleavage sites and sequence preferences in peptides. A total of 799 unique cleavage sites were detected and, in accordance with TAILS analysis using native secreted protein substrates of MEF cells, revealed a clear preference for Leu at P1'. Taken together, these results greatly expand the known substrate degradome of HF3 and reveal potential new targets, which may serve as a basis to better elucidate the complex pathophysiology of snake envenomation.
PXD014202	31337674	ScCobB2-mediated Lysine Desuccinylation Regulates Protein Biosynthesis and Carbon Metabolism in Streptomyces coelicolor. 	Identification of desuccinylase ScCobB2 and its desuccinylation substrates in Streptomyces coelicolor	ScCobB2, desuccinylase, lysine succinylation, post-translational modification, succinylome	As a recently discovered protein posttranslational modification in eukaryotes, lysine succinylation has attracted increasing interest due to its ability to regulate several critical cellular processes, including catabolism, beta-oxidation, and ketogenesis. Nevertheless, understanding of the regulatory mechanisms is still at an early stage due to the lack of identified specific desuccinylases in microorganisms. Here, in the model soil bacterium Streptomyces coelicolor, we biochemically characterized a sirtuin-like protein ScCobB2 as a divergent desuccinylase. Based on it, we were able to identify a total of 673 unique succinylated sites, of which 470 sites in 317 proteins were quantified by comparing the DeltaScCobB2 to the wild-type succinylome via LC-MS/MS analysis. Further analyses of the quantitative succinylome revealed that at least 114 proteins representing two major pathways, protein biosynthesis and carbon metabolism, are obviously hypersuccinylated in DeltaScCobB2 cells. We experimentally examined the regulatory roles of ScCobB2 on 13 hypersuccinylated proteins, including glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, aconitate hydratase, and several ribosomal proteins, the results of which suggested a high confidence in our quantitative data. This work provided the first discovery of a specific desuccinylase in bacteria and demonstrated it has pivotal regulatory roles in multiple biological processes of S. coelicolor, laying the foundation for future research of succinylation regulation in other microorganisms.
PXD014349	31337724	Charge-Mediated Pyrin Oligomerization Nucleates Antiviral IFI16 Sensing of Herpesvirus DNA. 	Pyrin oligomerization nucleates antiviral IFI16 sensing of herpesvirus DNA	DNA sensing, HSV-1, IFI16, IP-MS, oligomerization	The formation of multimerized protein assemblies has emerged as a core component of immune signal amplification, yet the biochemical basis of this phenomenon remains unclear for many mammalian proteins within host defense pathways. The interferon-inducible protein 16 (IFI16) is a viral DNA sensor that oligomerizes upon binding to nuclear viral DNA and induces downstream antiviral responses. Here, we identify the pyrin domain (PYD) residues that mediate IFI16 oligomerization in a charge-dependent manner. Based on structure modeling, these residues are predicted to be surface exposed within distinct alpha-helices. By generating oligomerization-deficient mutants, we demonstrate that IFI16 homotypic clustering is necessary for its assembly onto parental viral genomes at the nuclear periphery upon herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) infection. Preventing oligomerization severely hampered the capacity of IFI16 to induce antiviral cytokine expression, suppress viral protein levels, and restrict viral progeny production. Restoring oligomerization via residue-specific charge mimics partially rescued IFI16 antiviral roles. We show that pyrin domains from PYHIN proteins are functionally interchangeable, facilitating cooperative assembly with the IFI16 HINs, highlighting an inherent role for pyrin domains in antiviral response. Using immunoaffinity purification and targeted mass spectrometry, we establish that oligomerization promotes IFI16 interactions with proteins involved in transcriptional regulation, including PAF1C, UBTF, and ND10 bodies. We further discover PAF1C as an HSV-1 restriction factor. Altogether, our study uncovers intrinsic properties that govern IFI16 oligomerization, which serves as a signal amplification platform to activate innate immune responses and to recruit transcriptional regulatory proteins that suppress HSV-1 replication.IMPORTANCE The ability of mammalian cells to detect the genomes of nuclear-replicating viruses via cellular DNA sensors is fundamental to innate immunity. Recently, mounting evidence is supporting the universal role of polymerization in these host defense factors as a signal amplification strategy. Yet, what has remained unclear are the intrinsic properties that govern their immune signal transmission. Here, we uncover the biochemical basis for oligomerization of the nuclear DNA sensor, IFI16. Upon infection with herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) in human fibroblasts, we characterize the contribution of IFI16 oligomerization to downstream protein interactions and antiviral functions, including cytokine induction and suppression of HSV-1 replication. Until now, the global characterization of oligomerization-dependent protein interactions for an immune receptor has never been explored. Our integrative quantitative proteomics, molecular CRISPR/Cas9-based assays, mutational analyses, and confocal microscopy shed light on the dynamics of immune signaling cascades activated against pathogens.
PXD010269	31337761	The generation and use of recombinant extracellular vesicles as biological reference material. 	Recombinant extracellular vesicles as a biological reference material	HEK293T cells, VLPs, rEVs	Recent years have seen an increase of extracellular vesicle (EV) research geared towards biological understanding, diagnostics and therapy. However, EV data interpretation remains challenging owing to complexity of biofluids and technical variation introduced during sample preparation and analysis. To understand and mitigate these limitations, we generated trackable recombinant EV (rEV) as a biological reference material. Employing complementary characterization methods, we demonstrate that rEV are stable and bear physical and biochemical traits characteristic of sample EV. Furthermore, rEV can be quantified using fluorescence-, RNA- and protein-based technologies available in routine laboratories. Spiking rEV in biofluids allows recovery efficiencies of commonly implemented EV separation methods to be identified, intra-method and inter-user variability induced by sample handling to be defined, and to normalize and improve sensitivity of EV enumerations. We anticipate that rEV will aid EV-based sample preparation and analysis, data normalization, method development and instrument calibration in various research and biomedical applications.
PXD008317	31338083	Interactome of Glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase Points to the Existence of Metabolons in Paracoccidioides lutzii. 	GAPDH interactome in micelium to yeast transition Paracoccidioides lutzii cells	GAPDH, dimorphic fungi, paracoccidioides	Paracoccidioides is a dimorphic fungus, the causative agent of paracoccidioidomycosis. The disease is endemic within Latin America and prevalent in Brazil. The treatment is based on azoles, sulfonamides and amphotericin B. The seeking for new treatment approaches is a real necessity for neglected infections. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is an essential glycolytic enzyme, well known for its multitude of functions within cells, therefore categorized as a moonlight protein. To our knowledge, this is the first approach performed on the Paracoccidioides genus regarding the description of PPIs having GAPDH as a target. Here, we show an overview of experimental GAPDH interactome in different phases of Paracoccidioides lutzii and an in silico analysis of 18 proteins partners. GAPDH interacted with 207 proteins in P. lutzii. Several proteins bound to GAPDH in mycelium, transition and yeast phases are common to important pathways such as glycolysis and TCA. We performed a co-immunoprecipitation assay to validate the complex formed by GAPDH with triose phosphate isomerase, enolase, isocitrate lyase and 2-methylcitrate synthase. We found GAPDH participating in complexes with proteins of specific pathways, indicating the existence of a glycolytic and a TCA metabolon in P. lutzii. GAPDH interacted with several proteins that undergoes regulation by nitrosylation. In addition, we modeled the GAPDH 3-D structure, performed molecular dynamics and molecular docking in order to identify the interacting interface between GAPDH and the interacting proteins. Despite the large number of interacting proteins, GAPDH has only four main regions of contact with interacting proteins, reflecting its ancestrality and conservation over evolution.
PXD013253	31338125	Secretomic analyses of Ruminiclostridium papyrosolvens reveal its enzymatic basis for lignocellulose degradation. 	Secretomic analyses of Ruminiclostridium papyrosolvens reveal its enzymatic basis for lignocellulose degradation	Bacterial genetics, MS2, physiology and metabolic engineering	BACKGROUND: Efficient biotechnological conversion of lignocellulosic biomass to valuable products, such as transportation biofuels, is ecologically attractive, yet requires substantially improved mechanistic understanding and optimization to become economically feasible. Cellulolytic clostridia, such as Ruminiclostridium papyrosolvens (previously Clostridium papyrosolvens), produce a wide variety of carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) including extracellular multienzyme complexes-cellulosomes with different specificities for enhanced cellulosic biomass degradation. Identification of the secretory components, especially CAZymes, during bacterial growth on lignocellulose and their influence on bacterial catalytic capabilities provide insight into construction of potent cellulase systems of cell factories tuned or optimized for the targeted substrate by matching the type and abundance of enzymes and corresponding transporters. RESULTS: In this study, we firstly predicted a total of 174 putative CAZymes from the genome of R. papyrosolvens, including 74 cellulosomal components. To explore profile of secreted proteins involved in lignocellulose degradation, we compared the secretomes of R. papyrosolvens grown on different substrates using label-free quantitative proteomics. CAZymes, extracellular solute-binding proteins (SBPs) of transport systems and proteins involved in spore formation were enriched in the secretome of corn stover for lignocellulose degradation. Furthermore, compared with free CAZymes, complex CAZymes (cellulosomal components) had larger fluctuations in variety and abundance of enzymes among four carbon sources. In particular, cellulosomal proteins encoded by the cip-cel operon and the xyl-doc gene cluster had the highest abundance with corn stover as substrate. Analysis of differential expression of CAZymes revealed a substrate-dependent secretion pattern of CAZymes, which was consistent with their catalytic activity from each secretome determined on different cellulosic substrates. The results suggest that the expression of CAZymes is regulated by the type of substrate in the growth medium. CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, our results demonstrated the complexity of the lignocellulose degradation systems of R. papyrosolvens and showed the potency of its biomass degradation activity. Differential proteomic analyses and activity assays of CAZymes secreted by R. papyrosolvens suggested a distinct environment-sensing strategy for cellulose utilization in which R. papyrosolvens modulated the composition of the CAZymes, especially cellulosome, according to the degradation state of its natural substrate.
PXD013808	31338967	FAM83D directs protein kinase CK1alpha to the mitotic spindle for proper spindle positioning. 	FAM83D directs protein kinase CK1alpha to the mitotic spindle for proper spindle positioning	FAM83D, mitotic spindle, protein kinase CK1alpha	The concerted action of many protein kinases helps orchestrate the error-free progression through mitosis of mammalian cells. The roles and regulation of some prominent mitotic kinases, such as cyclin-dependent kinases, are well established. However, these and other known mitotic kinases alone cannot account for the extent of protein phosphorylation that has been reported during mammalian mitosis. Here we demonstrate that CK1alpha, of the casein kinase 1 family of protein kinases, localises to the spindle and is required for proper spindle positioning and timely cell division. CK1alpha is recruited to the spindle by FAM83D, and cells devoid of FAM83D, or those harbouring CK1alpha-binding-deficient FAM83D(F283A/F283A) knockin mutations, display pronounced spindle positioning defects, and a prolonged mitosis. Restoring FAM83D at the endogenous locus in FAM83D(-/-) cells, or artificially delivering CK1alpha to the spindle in FAM83D(F283A/F283A) cells, rescues these defects. These findings implicate CK1alpha as new mitotic kinase that orchestrates the kinetics and orientation of cell division.
PXD007688	31339301	Addressing Complex Matrix Interference Improves Multiplex Food Allergen Detection by Targeted LC-MS/MS. 	Allergen detection in commercial foods	Food, IgE, allergen, allergy	The frequent use of precautionary food allergen labeling (PAL) such as "may contain" frustrates allergic individuals who rely on such labeling to determine whether a food is safe to consume. One technique to study whether foods contain allergens is targeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) employing scheduled multiple reaction monitoring (MRM). However, the applicability of a single MRM method to many commercial foods is unknown as complex and heterogeneous interferences derived from the unique composition of each food matrix can hinder quantification of trace amounts of allergen contamination. We developed a freely available, open source software package MAtrix-Dependent Interference Correction (MADIC) to identify interference and applied it with a method targeting 14 allergens. Among 84 unique food products, we found patterns of allergen contamination such as wheat in grains, milk in chocolate-containing products, and soy in breads and corn flours. We also found additional instances of contamination in products with and without PAL as well as highly variable soy content in foods containing only soybean oil and/or soy lecithin. These results demonstrate the feasibility of applying LC-MS/MS to a variety of food products with sensitive detection of multiple allergens in spite of variable matrix interference.
PXD014441	31340001	CTCF cooperates with CtIP to drive homologous recombination repair of double-strand breaks. 	CTCF cooperates with CtIP to drive homologous recombination repair of double-strand breaks	MRE11, interactome, pleiotropic CCCTC-binding factor	The pleiotropic CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) plays a role in homologous recombination (HR) repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). However, the precise mechanistic role of CTCF in HR remains largely unclear. Here, we show that CTCF engages in DNA end resection, which is the initial, crucial step in HR, through its interactions with MRE11 and CtIP. Depletion of CTCF profoundly impairs HR and attenuates CtIP recruitment at DSBs. CTCF physically interacts with MRE11 and CtIP and promotes CtIP recruitment to sites of DNA damage. Subsequently, CTCF facilitates DNA end resection to allow HR, in conjunction with MRE11-CtIP. Notably, the zinc finger domain of CTCF binds to both MRE11 and CtIP and enables proficient CtIP recruitment, DNA end resection and HR. The N-terminus of CTCF is able to bind to only MRE11 and its C-terminus is incapable of binding to MRE11 and CtIP, thereby resulting in compromised CtIP recruitment, DSB resection and HR. Overall, this suggests an important function of CTCF in DNA end resection through the recruitment of CtIP at DSBs. Collectively, our findings identify a critical role of CTCF at the first control point in selecting the HR repair pathway.
PXD044056	31340039	A hidden human proteome encoded by 'non-coding' genes. 	A Hidden Human Proteome Encoded by the "Non-Coding" Genes	HPP, Translatome, lncRNAs	It has been a long debate whether the 98% 'non-coding' fraction of human genome can encode functional proteins besides short peptides. With full-length translating mRNA sequencing and ribosome profiling, we found that up to 3330 long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) were bound to ribosomes with active translation elongation. With shotgun proteomics, 308 lncRNA-encoded new proteins were detected. A total of 207 unique peptides of these new proteins were verified by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) and/or parallel reaction monitoring (PRM); and 10 new proteins were verified by immunoblotting. We found that these new proteins deviated from the canonical proteins with various physical and chemical properties, and emerged mostly in primates during evolution. We further deduced the protein functions by the assays of translation efficiency, RNA folding and intracellular localizations. As the new protein UBAP1-AST6 is localized in the nucleoli and is preferentially expressed by lung cancer cell lines, we biologically verified that it has a function associated with cell proliferation. In sum, we experimentally evidenced a hidden human functional proteome encoded by purported lncRNAs, suggesting a resource for annotating new human proteins.
PXD014142	31341159	EOMES interacts with RUNX3 and BRG1 to promote innate memory cell formation through epigenetic reprogramming. 	EOMES interacts with RUNX3 and BRG1 to promote innate memory cell formation through epigenetic reprogramming	Eomes Brg1 Runx3	Memory CD8(+) T cells have the ability to provide lifelong immunity against pathogens. Although memory features generally arise after challenge with a foreign antigen, naive CD8 single positive (SP) thymocytes may acquire phenotypic and functional characteristics of memory cells in response to cytokines such as interleukin-4. This process is associated with the induction of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (EOMES). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain ill-defined. Using epigenomic profiling, we show that these innate memory CD8SP cells acquire only a portion of the active enhancer repertoire of conventional memory cells. This reprograming is secondary to EOMES recruitment, mostly to RUNX3-bound enhancers. Furthermore, EOMES is found within chromatin-associated complexes containing BRG1 and promotes the recruitment of this chromatin remodelling factor. Also, the in vivo acquisition of EOMES-dependent program is BRG1-dependent. In conclusion, our results support a strong epigenetic basis for the EOMES-driven establishment of CD8(+) T cell innate memory program.
PXD013986	31341188	Molecular complexity of the major urinary protein system of the Norway rat, Rattus norvegicus. 	Molecular complexity of the major urinary protein system of the Norway rat, Rattus norvegicus C4PR_LIV	MUPs, Rattus norvegicus, phosphorylation, 2u-globulins	Major urinary proteins (MUP) are the major component of the urinary protein fraction in house mice (Mus spp.) and rats (Rattus spp.). The structure, polymorphism and functions of these lipocalins have been well described in the western European house mouse (Mus musculus domesticus), clarifying their role in semiochemical communication. The complexity of these roles in the mouse raises the question of similar functions in other rodents, including the Norway rat, Rattus norvegicus. Norway rats express MUPs in urine but information about specific MUP isoform sequences and functions is limited. In this study, we present a detailed molecular characterization of the MUP proteoforms expressed in the urine of two laboratory strains, Wistar Han and Brown Norway, and wild caught animals, using a combination of manual gene annotation, intact protein mass spectrometry and bottom-up mass spectrometry-based proteomic approaches. Cluster analysis shows the existence of only 10 predicted mup genes. Further, detailed sequencing of the urinary MUP isoforms reveals a less complex pattern of primary sequence polymorphism in the rat than the mouse. However, unlike the mouse, rat MUPs exhibit added complexity in the form of post-translational modifications, including the phosphorylation of Ser4 in some isoforms, and exoproteolytic trimming of specific isoforms. Our results raise the possibility that urinary MUPs may have different roles in rat chemical communication than those they play in the house mouse. Shotgun proteomics data are available via ProteomExchange with identifier PXD013986.
PXD014498	31343405	Mechanism of pharmacochaperoning in a mammalian KATP channel revealed by cryo-EM. 	Mechanism of pharmacochaperoning in ATP-sensitive potassium channels revealed by cryo-EM	Kir6.2, carbamazepine, glinides, pharmacological chaperones, structure, sulfonylurea receptor 1, sulfonylureas	ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels composed of a pore-forming Kir6.2 potassium channel and a regulatory ABC transporter sulfonylurea receptor 1 (SUR1) regulate insulin secretion in pancreatic beta-cells to maintain glucose homeostasis. Mutations that impair channel folding or assembly prevent cell surface expression and cause congenital hyperinsulinism. Structurally diverse KATP inhibitors are known to act as pharmacochaperones to correct mutant channel expression, but the mechanism is unknown. Here, we compare cryoEM structures of a mammalian KATP channel bound to pharmacochaperones glibenclamide, repaglinide, and carbamazepine. We found all three drugs bind within a common pocket in SUR1. Further, we found the N-terminus of Kir6.2 inserted within the central cavity of the SUR1 ABC core, adjacent the drug binding pocket. The findings reveal a common mechanism by which diverse compounds stabilize the Kir6.2 N-terminus within SUR1's ABC core, allowing it to act as a firm 'handle' for the assembly of metastable mutant SUR1-Kir6.2 complexes.
PXD051259	31343690	Proteomic Identification of Immune-Related Silkworm Proteins Involved in the Response to Bacterial Infection. 	Proteomic identification of immune-related silkworm proteins response to bacterial infection	Bombyx mori, bacterial infection, immune response, immune-related protein	Bombyx mori (Lepidoptera: Bombycidae) is an important economic insect and a classic Lepidopteran model system. Although immune-related genes have been identified at a genome-wide scale in the silkworm, proteins involved in immune defense of the silkworm have not been comprehensively characterized. In this study, two types of bacteria were injected into the silkworm larvae, Gram-negative Escherichia coli (Enterobacteriales: Enterobacteriaceae), or Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (Bacillales: Staphylococcaceae). After injection, proteomic analyses of hemolymph were performed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. In total, 514 proteins were identified in the uninduced control group, 540 were identified in the E. coli-induced group, and 537 were identified in the S. aureus-induced group. Based on Uniprot annotations, 32 immunological recognition proteins, 28 immunological signaling proteins, and 21 immunological effector proteins were identified. We found that 127 proteins showed significant upregulation, including 10 immunological recognition proteins, 4 immunological signaling proteins, 11 immunological effector proteins, and 102 other proteins. Using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction in the fat body, we verified that immunological recognition proteins, signaling proteins, and effector proteins also showed significant increases at the transcriptional level after infection with E. coli and S. aureus. Five newly identified proteins showed upregulation at both protein and transcription levels after infection, including 30K protein, yellow-d protein, chemosensory protein, and two uncharacterized proteins. This study identified many new immune-related proteins, deepening our understanding of the immune defense system in B. mori. The data have been deposited to the iProX with identifier IPX0001337000.
PXD012087	31346082	Kinome profiling of non-Hodgkin lymphoma identifies Tyro3 as a therapeutic target in primary effusion lymphoma. 	Kinome profiling of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma identifies Tyro3 as a therapeutic target in PEL	Kinome profiling, Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Tyro3, primary effusion lymphoma	Non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs) make up the majority of lymphoma diagnoses and represent a very diverse set of malignancies. We sought to identify kinases uniquely up-regulated in different NHL subtypes. Using multiplexed inhibitor bead-mass spectrometry (MIB/MS), we found Tyro3 was uniquely up-regulated and important for cell survival in primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), which is a viral lymphoma infected with Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). Tyro3 was also highly expressed in PEL cell lines as well as in primary PEL exudates. Based on this discovery, we developed an inhibitor against Tyro3 named UNC3810A, which hindered cell growth in PEL, but not in other NHL subtypes where Tyro3 was not highly expressed. UNC3810A also significantly inhibited tumor progression in a PEL xenograft mouse model that was not seen in a non-PEL NHL model. Taken together, our data suggest Tyro3 is a therapeutic target for PEL.
PXD010081	31346634	FA-SAT ncRNA interacts with PKM2 protein: depletion of this complex induces a switch from cell proliferation to apoptosis. 	FA-SAT ncRNA interactome      .	Apoptosis, FA-SAT, Interactome, SWATH-MS, non-coding RNA, satellite DNA	FA-SAT is a highly conserved satellite DNA sequence transcribed in many Bilateria species. To disclose the cellular and functional profile of FA-SAT non-coding RNAs, a comprehensive experimental approach, including the transcripts location in the cell and in the cell cycle, the identification of its putative protein interactors, and silencing/ectopic expression phenotype analysis, was performed. FA-SAT non-coding RNAs play a nuclear function at the G1 phase of the cell cycle and the interactomic assay showed that the PKM2 protein is the main interactor. The disruption of the FA-SAT non-coding RNA/PKM2 protein complex, by the depletion of either FA-SAT or PKM2, results in the same phenotype-apoptosis, and the ectopic overexpression of FA-SAT did not affect the cell-cycle progression, but promotes the PKM2 nuclear accumulation. Overall, our data first describe the importance of this ribonucleoprotein complex in apoptosis and cell-cycle progression, what foresees a promising novel candidate molecular target for cancer therapy and diagnosis.
PXD013814	31348803	Essential role of GEXP15, a specific Protein Phosphatase type 1 partner, in Plasmodium berghei in asexual erythrocytic proliferation and transmission. 	Essential role of GEXP15, a specific Protein Phosphatase type 1 partner in Plasmodium berghei in asexual erythrocytic proliferation and transmission	PPP1, Plasmodium, phosphoproteomics	The essential and distinct functions of Protein Phosphatase type 1 (PP1) catalytic subunit in eukaryotes are exclusively achieved through its interaction with a myriad of regulatory partners. In this work, we report the molecular and functional characterization of Gametocyte EXported Protein 15 (GEXP15), a Plasmodium specific protein, as a regulator of PP1. In vitro interaction studies demonstrated that GEXP15 physically interacts with PP1 through the RVxF binding motif in P. berghei. Functional assays showed that GEXP15 was able to increase PP1 activity and the mutation of the RVxF motif completely abolished this regulation. Immunoprecipitation assays of tagged GEXP15 or PP1 in P. berghei followed by immunoblot or mass spectrometry analyses confirmed their interaction and showed that they are present both in schizont and gametocyte stages in shared protein complexes involved in the spliceosome and proteasome pathways and known to play essential role in parasite development. Phenotypic analysis of viable GEXP15 deficient P. berghei blood parasites showed that they were unable to develop lethal infection in BALB/c mice or to establish experimental cerebral malaria in C57BL/6 mice. Further, although deficient parasites produced gametocytes they did not produce any oocysts/sporozoites indicating a high fitness cost in the mosquito. Global proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of GEXP15 deficient schizonts revealed a profound defect with a significant decrease in the abundance and an impact on phosphorylation status of proteins involved in regulation of gene expression or invasion. Moreover, depletion of GEXP15 seemed to impact mainly the abundance of some specific proteins of female gametocytes. Our study provides the first insight into the contribution of a PP1 regulator to Plasmodium virulence and suggests that GEXP15 affects both the asexual and sexual life cycle.
PXD013856	31350386	Stabilizing heterochromatin by DGCR8 alleviates senescence and osteoarthritis. 	Stabilizing Heterochromatin by DGCR8 Alleviates Senescence and Osteoarthritis	DGCR8, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), aging, heterochromatin	DiGeorge syndrome critical region 8 (DGCR8) is a critical component of the canonical microprocessor complex for microRNA biogenesis. However, the non-canonical functions of DGCR8 have not been studied. Here, we demonstrate that DGCR8 plays an important role in maintaining heterochromatin organization and attenuating aging. An N-terminal-truncated version of DGCR8 (DR8(dex2)) accelerated senescence in human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) independent of its microRNA-processing activity. Further studies revealed that DGCR8 maintained heterochromatin organization by interacting with the nuclear envelope protein Lamin B1, and heterochromatin-associated proteins, KAP1 and HP1gamma. Overexpression of any of these proteins, including DGCR8, reversed premature senescent phenotypes in DR8(dex2) hMSCs. Finally, DGCR8 was downregulated in pathologically and naturally aged hMSCs, whereas DGCR8 overexpression alleviated hMSC aging and mouse osteoarthritis. Taken together, these analyses uncovered a novel, microRNA processing-independent role in maintaining heterochromatin organization and attenuating senescence by DGCR8, thus representing a new therapeutic target for alleviating human aging-related disorders.
PXD013923	31350469	Global view of the RAF-MEK-ERK module and its immediate downstream effectors. 	Global view of the RAF-MEK-ERK module and its immediate downstream effectors	A375, BRAF, BRAFV600E, Dabrafenib, ERK, MEK, RAF, SCH772984, Trametinib, V600E, inhibitor, melanoma, phosphosites	Small molecule inhibitors of BRAF and MEK have proven effective at inhibiting tumor growth in melanoma patients, however this efficacy is limited due to the almost universal development of drug resistance. To provide advanced insight into the signaling responses that occur following kinase inhibition we have performed quantitative (phospho)-proteomics of human melanoma cells treated with either dabrafenib, a BRAF inhibitor; trametinib, a MEK inhibitor or SCH772984, an ERK inhibitor. Over nine experiments we identified 7827 class I phosphorylation sites on 4960 proteins. This included 54 phosphorylation sites that were significantly down-modulated after exposure to all three inhibitors, 34 of which have not been previously reported. Functional analysis of these novel ERK targets identified roles for them in GTPase activity and regulation, apoptosis and cell-cell adhesion. Comparison of the results presented here with previously reported phosphorylation sites downstream of ERK showed a limited degree of overlap suggesting that ERK signaling responses may be highly cell line and cue specific. In addition we identified 26 phosphorylation sites that were only responsive to dabrafenib. We provide further orthogonal experimental evidence for 3 of these sites in human embryonic kidney cells over-expressing BRAF as well as further computational insights using KinomeXplorer. The validated phosphorylation sites were found to be involved in actin regulation, which has been proposed as a novel mechanism for inhibiting resistance development. These results would suggest that the linearity of the BRAF-MEK-ERK module is at least context dependent.
PXD012486	31351878	Network Rewiring of Homologous Recombination Enzymes during Mitotic Proliferation and Meiosis. 	Network rewiring of homologous recombination during mitotic proliferation and meiosis	DNA repair, Holliday junction, Mlh1-Mlh3-Exo1, Mph1/FANCM, Mus81-Mms4/EME1, Sgs1/BLM-Top3-Rmi1, Slx1-Slx4(BTDB12), Srs2/RTEL1, Yen1/GEN1, cell cycle, crossing-over	Homologous recombination (HR) is essential for high-fidelity DNA repair during mitotic proliferation and meiosis. Yet, context-specific modifications must tailor the recombination machinery to avoid (mitosis) or enforce (meiosis) the formation of reciprocal exchanges-crossovers-between recombining chromosomes. To obtain molecular insight into how crossover control is achieved, we affinity purified 7 DNA-processing enzymes that channel HR intermediates into crossovers or noncrossovers from vegetative cells or cells undergoing meiosis. Using mass spectrometry, we provide a global characterization of their composition and reveal mitosis- and meiosis-specific modules in the interaction networks. Functional analyses of meiosis-specific interactors of MutLgamma-Exo1 identified Rtk1, Caf120, and Chd1 as regulators of crossing-over. Chd1, which transiently associates with Exo1 at the prophase-to-metaphase I transition, enables the formation of MutLgamma-dependent crossovers through its conserved ability to bind and displace nucleosomes. Thus, rewiring of the HR network, coupled to chromatin remodeling, promotes context-specific control of the recombination outcome.
PXD011800	31352363	Analysis of Endogenous Peptides Released from Osteoarthritic Cartilage Unravels Novel Pathogenic Markers. 	Analysis of endogenous peptides released from osteoarthritic articular cartilage unravels novel pathogenic markers	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), cartilage, osteoarthritis, peptidome	Osteoarthritis (OA) is a pathology characterized by the loss of articular cartilage. In this study, we performed a peptidomic strategy to identify endogenous peptides (neopeptides) that are released from human osteoarthritic tissue, which may serve as disease markers. With this aim, secretomes of osteoarthritic and healthy articular cartilages obtained from knee and hip were analyzed by shotgun peptidomics. This discovery step led to the identification of 1175 different peptides, corresponding to 101 proteins, as products of the physiological or pathological turnover of cartilage extracellular matrix. Then, a targeted multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry method was developed to quantify the panel of best marker candidates on a larger set of samples (n = 62). Statistical analyses were performed to evaluate the significance of the observed differences and the ability of the neopeptides to classify the tissue. Eight of them were differentially abundant in the media from wounded zones of OA cartilage compared with the healthy tissue (p < 0.05). Three neopeptides belonging to Clusterin and one from Cartilage Oligomeric Matrix Protein showed a disease-dependent decrease specifically in hip OA, whereas two from Prolargin (PRELP) and one from Cartilage Intermediate Layer Protein 1 were significantly increased in samples from knee OA. The release of one peptide from PRELP showed the best metrics for tissue classification (AUC = 0.834). The present study reveals specific neopeptides that are differentially released from knee or hip human osteoarthritic cartilage compared with healthy tissue. This evidences the intervention of characteristic pathogenic pathways in OA and provides a novel panel of peptidic candidates for biomarker development.
PXD011355	31353023	De Novo Heterozygous POLR2A Variants Cause a Neurodevelopmental Syndrome with Profound Infantile-Onset Hypotonia. 	De novo heterozygous variants in POLR2A cause a neurodevelopmental syndrome with infantile-onset hypotonia	POLR2A, RNA polymerase II, RPB1, de novo heterozygous variants	The RNA polymerase II complex (pol II) is responsible for transcription of all ~21,000 human protein-encoding genes. Here, we describe sixteen individuals harboring de novo heterozygous variants in POLR2A, encoding RPB1, the largest subunit of pol II. An iterative approach combining structural evaluation and mass spectrometry analyses, the use of S. cerevisiae as a model system, and the assessment of cell viability in HeLa cells allowed us to classify eleven variants as probably disease-causing and four variants as possibly disease-causing. The significance of one variant remains unresolved. By quantification of phenotypic severity, we could distinguish mild and severe phenotypic consequences of the disease-causing variants. Missense variants expected to exert only mild structural effects led to a malfunctioning pol II enzyme, thereby inducing a dominant-negative effect on gene transcription. Intriguingly, individuals carrying these variants presented with a severe phenotype dominated by profound infantile-onset hypotonia and developmental delay. Conversely, individuals carrying variants expected to result in complete loss of function, thus reduced levels of functional pol II from the normal allele, exhibited the mildest phenotypes. We conclude that subtle variants that are central in functionally important domains of POLR2A cause a neurodevelopmental syndrome characterized by profound infantile-onset hypotonia and developmental delay through a dominant-negative effect on pol-II-mediated transcription of DNA.
PXD014341	31353208	Systematic Detection of Amino Acid Substitutions in Proteomes Reveals Mechanistic Basis of Ribosome Errors and Selection for Translation Fidelity. 	Systematic detection of amino acid substitutions in proteomes reveals a mechanistic basis of ribosome errors and selection for translation fidelity	Misloading, Mispairing, Ribosome errors, Translation	The translation machinery and the genes it decodes co-evolved to achieve production throughput and accuracy. Nonetheless, translation errors are frequent, and they affect physiology and protein evolution. Mapping translation errors in proteomes and understanding their causes is hindered by lack of a proteome-wide experimental methodology. We present the first methodology for systematic detection and quantification of errors in entire proteomes. Following proteome mass spectrometry, we identify, in E. coli and yeast, peptides whose mass indicates specific amino acid substitutions. Most substitutions result from codon-anticodon mispairing. Errors occur at sites that evolve rapidly and that minimally affect energetic stability, indicating selection for high translation fidelity. Ribosome density data show that errors occur at sites where ribosome velocity is higher, demonstrating a trade-off between speed and accuracy. Treating bacteria with an aminoglycoside antibiotic or deprivation of specific amino acids resulted in particular patterns of errors. These results reveal a mechanistic and evolutionary basis for translation fidelity.
PXD010414	31355153	Thymic Microenvironment Is Modified by Malnutrition and Leishmania infantum Infection. 	thymus mouse LC-MSMS -  Thymic Microenvironment Is Modified by Malnutrition and Leishmania infantum Infection	Thymus, fluid, malnutrition	Detrimental effects of malnutrition on immune responses to pathogens have long been recognized and it is considered a main risk factor for various infectious diseases, including visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Thymus is a target of both malnutrition and infection, but its role in the immune response to Leishmania infantum in malnourished individuals is barely studied. Because we previously observed thymic atrophy and significant reduction in cellularity and chemokine levels in malnourished mice infected with L. infantum, we postulated that the thymic microenvironment is severely compromised in those animals. To test this, we analyzed the microarchitecture of the organ and measured the protein abundance in its interstitial space in malnourished BALB/c mice infected or not with L. infantum. Malnourished-infected animals exhibited a significant reduction of the thymic cortex:medulla ratio and altered abundance of proteins secreted in the thymic interstitial fluid. Eighty-one percent of identified proteins are secreted by exosomes and malnourished-infected mice showed significant decrease in exosomal proteins, suggesting that exosomal carrier system, and therefore intrathymic communication, is dysregulated in those animals. Malnourished-infected mice also exhibited a significant increase in the abundance of proteins involved in lipid metabolism and tricarboxylic acid cycle, suggestive of a non-proliferative microenvironment. Accordingly, flow cytometry analysis revealed decreased proliferation of single positive and double positive T cells in those animals. Together, the reduced cortical area, decreased proliferation, and altered protein abundance suggest a dysfunctional thymic microenvironment where T cell migration, proliferation, and maturation are compromised, contributing for the thymic atrophy observed in malnourished animals. All these alterations could affect the control of the local and systemic infection, resulting in an impaired response to L. infantum infection.
PXD013575	31356092	Phosphoproteomics Reveals the Biosynthesis of Secondary Metabolites in Catharanthus roseus under Ultraviolet-B Radiation. 	SK07_CatharanthusRoseus_Phosphoproteomics	Catharanthus roseus, indole alkaloid, phosphoproteomics, ultraviolet-B	Ultraviolet (UV)-B radiation acts as an elicitor to enhance the production of secondary metabolites in medicinal plants. To investigate the mechanisms, which lead to secondary metabolites in Catharanthus roseus under UVB radiation, a phosphoproteomic technique was used. ATP content increased in the leaves of C. roseus under UVB radiation. Phosphoproteins related to calcium such as calmodulin, calcium-dependent kinase, and heat shock proteins increased. Phosphoproteins related to protein synthesis/modification/degradation and signaling intensively changed. Metabolomic analysis indicated that the metabolites classified with pentoses, aromatic amino acids, and phenylpropanoids accumulated under UVB radiation. Phosphoproteomic and immunoblot analyses indicated that proteins related to glycolysis and the reactive-oxygen species scavenging system were changed under UVB radiation. These results suggest that UVB radiation activates the calcium-related pathway and reactive-oxygen species scavenging system in C. roseus. These changes lead to the upregulation of proteins, which are responsible for the redox reactions in secondary metabolism and are important for the accumulation of secondary metabolites in C. roseus under UVB radiation.
PXD012570	31356623	Cryptococcus neoformans resists to drastic conditions by switching to viable but non-culturable cell phenotype. 	Cryptococcus neoformans resist to drastic conditions by switching to viable but non-culturable cell phenotype	Cryptococcus neoformans, dormancy, growth, hypoxia, latency, pantothenic acid, quorum sensing, reactivation, secretome, starvation, transcriptome, viable but non culturable	Metabolically quiescent pathogens can persist in a viable non-replicating state for months or even years. For certain infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, latent infection is a corollary of this dormant state, which has the risk for reactivation and clinical disease. During murine cryptococcosis and macrophage uptake, stress and host immunity induce Cryptococcus neoformans heterogeneity with the generation of a sub-population of yeasts that manifests a phenotype compatible with dormancy (low stress response, latency of growth). In this subpopulation, mitochondrial transcriptional activity is regulated and this phenotype has been considered as a hallmark of quiescence in stem cells. Based on these findings, we worked to reproduce this phenotype in vitro and then standardize the experimental conditions to consistently generate this dormancy in C. neoformans. We found that incubation of stationary phase yeasts (STAT) in nutriment limited conditions and hypoxia for 8 days (8D-HYPOx) was able to produced cells that mimic the phenotype obtained in vivo. In these conditions, mortality and/or apoptosis occurred in less than 5% of the yeasts compared to 30-40% of apoptotic or dead yeasts upon incubation in normoxia (8D-NORMOx). Yeasts in 8D-HYPOx harbored a lower stress response, delayed growth and less that 1% of culturability on agar plates, suggesting that these yeasts are viable but non culturable cells (VBNC). These VBNC were able to reactivate in the presence of pantothenic acid, a vitamin that is known to be involved in quorum sensing and a precursor of acetyl-CoA. Global metabolism of 8D-HYPOx cells showed some specific requirements and was globally shut down compared to 8D-NORMOx and STAT conditions. Mitochondrial analyses showed that the mitochondrial mass increased with mitochondria mostly depolarized in 8D-HYPOx compared to 8D-NORMox, with increased expression of mitochondrial genes. Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of 8D-HYPOx revealed that the number of secreted proteins and transcripts detected also decreased compared to 8D-NORMOx and STAT, and the proteome, secretome and transcriptome harbored specific profiles that are engaged as soon as four days of incubation. Importantly, acetyl-CoA and the fatty acid pathway involving mitochondria are required for the generation and viability maintenance of VBNC. Altogether, these data show that we were able to generate for the first time VBNC phenotype in C. neoformans. This VBNC state is associated with a specific metabolism that should be further studied to understand dormancy/quiescence in this yeast.
PXD010709	31357169	A Cancer-Associated Missense Mutation in PP2A-Aalpha Increases Centrosome Clustering during Mitosis. 	Mutant PP2A interactome       .	PP2A phosphatase interaction co-IP	Whole-genome doubling (WGD) is common early in tumorigenesis. WGD doubles ploidy and centrosome number. In the ensuing mitoses, excess centrosomes form a multipolar spindle, resulting in a lethal multipolar cell division. To survive, cells must cluster centrosomes to allow bipolar cell division. Cancer cells are often more proficient at centrosome clustering than untransformed cells, but the mechanism behind increased clustering ability is not well understood. Heterozygous missense mutations in PPP2R1A, which encodes the alpha isoform of the "scaffolding" subunit of PP2A (PP2A-Aalpha), positively correlate with WGD. We introduced a heterozygous hotspot mutation, P179R, into PPP2R1A in human RPE-1 cells. PP2A-Aalpha(P179R) decreases PP2A assembly and intracellular targeting in mitosis. Strikingly, PP2A-Aalpha(P179R) enhances centrosome clustering when centrosome number is increased either by cytokinesis failure or centrosome amplification, likely through PP2A-Aalpha loss of function. Thus cancer-associated mutations in PP2A-Aalpha may increase cellular fitness after WGD by enhancing centrosome clustering.
PXD014111	31358880	Altered transcriptional regulatory proteins in glioblastoma and YBX1 as a potential regulator of tumor invasion. 	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of nuclear fractions of glioma (WHO grade II, III and IV) tissues to identify altered transcriptional regulatory proteins	Glioblastoma, Glioma, anaplastic astrocytoma, diffused astrocytoma, iTRAQ, nuclear proteins, sub cellular fractionation, transcription factor, transcription regulatory proteins	We have studied differentially regulated nuclear proteome of the clinical tissue specimens of glioblastoma (GBM, WHO Grade IV) and lower grades of gliomas (Grade II and III) using high resolution mass spectrometry- based quantitative proteomics approach. The results showed altered expression of many regulatory proteins from the nucleus such as DNA binding proteins, transcription and post transcriptional processing factors and also included enrichment of nuclear proteins that are targets of granzyme signaling - an immune surveillance pathway. Protein - protein interaction network analysis using integrated proteomics and transcriptomics data of transcription factors and proteins for cell invasion process (drawn from another GBM dataset) revealed YBX1, a ubiquitous RNA and DNA-binding protein and a transcription factor, as a key interactor of major cell invasion-associated proteins from GBM. To verify the regulatory link between them, the co-expression of YBX1 and six of the interacting proteins (EGFR, MAPK1, CD44, SOX2, TNC and MMP13) involved in cell invasion network was examined by immunohistochemistry on tissue micro arrays. Our analysis suggests YBX1 as a potential regulator of these key molecules involved in tumor invasion and thus as a promising target for development of new therapeutic strategies for GBM.
PXD004457	31361216	Shotgun proteomic analysis of nanoparticle-synthesizing Desulfovibrio alaskensis in response to platinum and palladium. 	Shotgun proteomics analysis of Desulfovibrio alaskensis in response to Platinum and Palladium.	Desulfovibrio alaskensis, Palladium, Platinum, label-free, nanoparticles	Platinum and palladium are much sought-after metals of critical global importance in terms of abundance and availability. At the nano-scale these metals are of even higher value due to their catalytic abilities for industrial applications. Desulfovibrio alaskensis is able to capture ionic forms of both of these metals, reduce them and synthesize elemental nanoparticles. Despite this ability, very little is known about the biological pathways involved in the formation of these nanoparticles. Proteomic analysis of D. alaskensis in response to platinum and palladium has highlighted those proteins involved in both the reductive pathways and the wider stress-response system. A core set of 13 proteins was found in both treatments and consisted of proteins involved in metal transport and reduction. There were also seven proteins that were specific to either platinum or palladium. Overexpression of one of these platinum-specific genes, a NiFe hydrogenase small subunit (Dde_2137), resulted in the formation of larger nanoparticles. This study improves our understanding of the pathways involved in the metal resistance mechanism of Desulfovibrio and is informative regarding how we can tailor the bacterium for nanoparticle production, enhancing its application as a bioremediation tool and as a way to capture contaminant metals from the environment.
PXD012109	31363125	A high-speed search engine pLink 2 with systematic evaluation for proteome-scale identification of cross-linked peptides. 	pLink 2: A high-speed search engine with systematic evaluation for proteome-scale identification of cross-linked peptides	E.coli, QEHF	We describe pLink 2, a search engine with higher speed and reliability for proteome-scale identification of cross-linked peptides. With a two-stage open search strategy facilitated by fragment indexing, pLink 2 is ~40 times faster than pLink 1 and 3~10 times faster than Kojak. Furthermore, using simulated datasets, synthetic datasets, (15)N metabolically labeled datasets, and entrapment databases, four analysis methods were designed to evaluate the credibility of ten state-of-the-art search engines. This systematic evaluation shows that pLink 2 outperforms these methods in precision and sensitivity, especially at proteome scales. Lastly, re-analysis of four published proteome-scale cross-linking datasets with pLink 2 required only a fraction of the time used by pLink 1, with up to 27% more cross-linked residue pairs identified. pLink 2 is therefore an efficient and reliable tool for cross-linking mass spectrometry analysis, and the systematic evaluation methods described here will be useful for future software development.
PXD011055	31363146	A protein-RNA interaction atlas of the ribosome biogenesis factor AATF. 	AATF/Che-1 binds ribosome-associated RNAs and regulates ribosome biogenesis	AATF	AATF is a central regulator of the cellular outcome upon p53 activation, a finding that has primarily been attributed to its function as a transcription factor. Recent data showed that AATF is essential for ribosome biogenesis and plays a role in rRNA maturation. AATF has been implicated to fulfil this role through direct interaction with rRNA and was identified in several RNA-interactome capture experiments. Here, we provide a first comprehensive analysis of the RNA bound by AATF using CLIP-sequencing. Interestingly, this approach shows predominant binding of the 45S pre-ribosomal RNA precursor molecules. Furthermore, AATF binds to mRNAs encoding for ribosome biogenesis factors as well as snoRNAs. These findings are complemented by an in-depth analysis of the protein interactome of AATF containing a large set of proteins known to play a role in rRNA maturation with an emphasis on the protein-RNA-complexes known to be required for the generation of the small ribosomal subunit (SSU). In line with this finding, the binding sites of AATF within the 45S rRNA precursor localize in close proximity to the SSU cleavage sites. Consequently, our multilayer analysis of the protein-RNA interactome of AATF reveals this protein to be an important hub for protein and RNA interactions involved in ribosome biogenesis.
PXD012929	31365874	The Hsp70 Chaperone System Stabilizes a Thermo-sensitive Subproteome in E. coli. 	The Hsp70 Chaperone System Stabilizes a Thermo-sensitive Subproteome	Chaperones, protein stability, pulse proteolysis	Stress-inducible molecular chaperones have essential roles in maintaining protein homeostasis, but the extent to which they affect overall proteome stability remains unclear. Here, we analyze the effects of the DnaK (Hsp70) system on protein stability in Escherichia coli using pulse proteolysis combined with quantitative proteomics. We quantify ~1,500 soluble proteins and find ~500 of these to be protease sensitive under normal growth conditions, indicating a high prevalence of conformationally dynamic proteins, forming a metastable subproteome. Acute heat stress results in the unfolding of an additional ~200 proteins, reflected in the exposure of otherwise buried hydrophobic regions. Overexpression of the DnaK chaperone system markedly stabilizes numerous thermo-sensitive proteins, including multiple ribosomal proteins and large, hetero-oligomeric proteins containing the evolutionarily ancient c.37 fold (P loop nucleoside triphosphate hydrolases). Thus, the Hsp70 system, in addition to its known chaperone functions, has a remarkable capacity to stabilize proteins in their folded states under denaturing stress conditions.
PXD013373	31367038	Lysine harvesting is an antioxidant strategy and triggers underground polyamine metabolism. 	Tpo1mediated spermine and spermidine export controls cell cycle delay and times antioxidant protein expression during the oxidative stress response		Both single and multicellular organisms depend on anti-stress mechanisms that enable them to deal with sudden changes in the environment, including exposure to heat and oxidants. Central to the stress response are dynamic changes in metabolism, such as the transition from the glycolysis to the pentose phosphate pathway-a conserved first-line response to oxidative insults(1,2). Here we report a second metabolic adaptation that protects microbial cells in stress situations. The role of the yeast polyamine transporter Tpo1p(3-5) in maintaining oxidant resistance is unknown(6). However, a proteomic time-course experiment suggests a link to lysine metabolism. We reveal a connection between polyamine and lysine metabolism during stress situations, in the form of a promiscuous enzymatic reaction in which the first enzyme of the polyamine pathway, Spe1p, decarboxylates lysine and forms an alternative polyamine, cadaverine. The reaction proceeds in the presence of extracellular lysine, which is taken up by cells to reach concentrations up to one hundred times higher than those required for growth. Such extensive harvest is not observed for the other amino acids, is dependent on the polyamine pathway and triggers a reprogramming of redox metabolism. As a result, NADPH-which would otherwise be required for lysine biosynthesis-is channelled into glutathione metabolism, leading to a large increase in glutathione concentrations, lower levels of reactive oxygen species and increased oxidant tolerance. Our results show that nutrient uptake occurs not only to enable cell growth, but when the nutrient availability is favourable it also enables cells to reconfigure their metabolism to preventatively mount stress protection.
PXD013669	31368592	Rebuilding core abscisic acid signaling pathways of Arabidopsis in yeast. 	Rebuilding core abscisic acid signaling pathways of Arabidopsis in yeast	ABA, SnRK2 phosphorylation	The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) regulates plant responses to abiotic stress, such as drought and high osmotic conditions. The multitude of functionally redundant components involved in ABA signaling poses a major challenge for elucidating individual contributions to the response selectivity and sensitivity of the pathway. Here, we reconstructed single ABA signaling pathways in yeast for combinatorial analysis of ABA receptors and coreceptors, downstream-acting SnRK2 protein kinases, and transcription factors. The analysis shows that some ABA receptors stimulate the pathway even in the absence of ABA and that SnRK2s are major determinants of ABA responsiveness by differing in the ligand-dependent control. Five SnRK2s, including SnRK2.4 known to be active under osmotic stress in plants, activated ABA-responsive transcription factors and were regulated by ABA receptor complexes in yeast. In the plant tissue, SnRK2.4 and ABA receptors competed for coreceptor interaction in an ABA-dependent manner consistent with a tight integration of SnRK2.4 into the ABA signaling pathway. The study establishes the suitability of the yeast system for the dissection of core signaling cascades and opens up future avenues of research on ligand-receptor regulation.
PXD011767	31371413	Early growth response 1 regulates hematopoietic support and proliferation in human primary bone marrow stromal cells. 	EGR1 regulation in human bone marrow stromal cells	bone marrow, stromal cells	Human bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) are key elements of the hematopoietic environment and they play a central role in bone and bone marrow physiology. However, how key stromal cell functions are regulated is largely unknown. We analyzed the role of the immediate early response transcription factor EGR1 as key stromal cell regulator and found that EGR1 was highly expressed in prospectively-isolated primary BMSC, down-regulated upon culture, and low in non-colony-forming CD45(neg) stromal cells. Furthermore, EGR1 expression was lower in proliferative regenerating adult and fetal primary cells compared to adult steady-state BMSC. Overexpression of EGR1 in stromal cells induced potent hematopoietic stroma support as indicated by an increased production of transplantable CD34(+)CD90(+) hematopoietic stem cells in expansion co-cultures. The improvement in bone marrow stroma support function was mediated by increased expression of hematopoietic supporting genes, such as VCAM1 and CCL28 Furthermore, EGR1 overexpression markedly decreased stromal cell proliferation whereas EGR1 knockdown caused the opposite effects. These findings thus show that EGR1 is a key stromal transcription factor with a dual role in regulating proliferation and hematopoietic stroma support function that is controlling a genetic program to co-ordinate the specific functions of BMSC in their different biological contexts.
PXD014346	31371704	Small molecule degraders of the hepatitis C virus protease reduce susceptibility to resistance mutations. 	Small Molecule Degraders of the Hepatitis C Virus Protease Reduce Susceptibility to Resistance Mutations	PROTAC, crl4, hcv, telaprevir, thalidomide, ubiquitin	Targeted protein degradation is a promising drug development paradigm. Here we leverage this strategy to develop a new class of small molecule antivirals that induce proteasomal degradation of viral proteins. Telaprevir, a reversible-covalent inhibitor that binds to the hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease active site is conjugated to ligands that recruit the CRL4(CRBN) ligase complex, yielding compounds that can both inhibit and induce the degradation of the HCV NS3/4A protease. An optimized degrader, DGY-08-097, potently inhibits HCV in a cellular infection model, and we demonstrate that protein degradation contributes to its antiviral activity. Finally, we show that this new class of antiviral agents can overcome viral variants that confer resistance to traditional enzymatic inhibitors such as telaprevir. Overall, our work provides proof-of-concept that targeted protein degradation may provide a new paradigm for the development of antivirals with superior resistance profiles.
PXD013835	31371827	Migrasomes provide regional cues for organ morphogenesis during zebrafish gastrulation. 	Migrasomes provide regional cues for organ morphogenesis during zebrafish gastrulation	migrasome, morphogenesis, regional cue	Migrasomes are recently identified vesicular organelles that form on retraction fibres behind migrating cells. Whether migrasomes are present in vivo and, if so, the function of migrasomes in living organisms is unknown. Here, we show that migrasomes are formed during zebrafish gastrulation and signalling molecules, such as chemokines, are enriched in migrasomes. We further demonstrate that Tspan4 and Tspan7 are required for migrasome formation. Organ morphogenesis is impaired in zebrafish MZtspan4a and MZtspan7 mutants. Mechanistically, migrasomes are enriched on a cavity underneath the embryonic shield where they serve as chemoattractants to ensure the correct positioning of dorsal forerunner cells vegetally next to the embryonic shield, thereby affecting organ morphogenesis. Our study shows that migrasomes are signalling organelles that provide specific biochemical information to coordinate organ morphogenesis.
PXD011076	31372383	Spiked human substantia nigra proteome data set for use as a spectral library for protein modelling and protein mapping. 	Spiked human substantia nigra proteome data set for use as a spectral library for protein modelling and protein mapping	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), protein m, spectral library, substantia nigra	This article describes a mass spectrometric data set generated from human substantia nigra tissue that was spiked with iRT peptides. The data set can be used as a spectral library for analysis of the human brain; especially for analysis of human substantia nigra, for example, in the context of Parkinson's disease. Obtaining a sufficient amount of high-quality substantia nigra tissue is the key limiting factor for establishing a brain region-specific spectral library. Hence, combining existing spectral libraries for data-independent acquisition analysis (DIA) can overcome this major limitation. Moreover, these data can be used to map brain region-specific proteins and to model brain region-specific pathways. Both can improve our understanding of the functioning of the brain in greater depth. In addition, these data can also be used to determine the optimal settings for measuring proteins and peptides of interest. To create the substantia nigra-specific spectral library, the tissue was first homogenized and then fractionated via different types of SDS gel electrophoresis, resulting in 18 fractions. These fractions were analysed in triplicate by nanoHPLC-ESI-MS/MS, resulting in 54 data files. The data files generated from the described workflow are hosted in the public repository ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD011076.
PXD010920	31372401	Proteomic dataset: Profiling of cultivated Echerichia coli isolates from Crohn's disease patients and healthy individuals. 	Proteome profiling of cultivated Echerichia coli isolates from Crohn's disease patients	Crohns disease, E. coli, HPLC-MS/MS	One of the dysbioses often observed in Crohn's disease (CD) patients is an increased abundance of Escherichia coli (10-100 fold compared to healthy individuals) (Gevers et al., 2014). The data reported is a large-scale proteome profile for E. coli isolates collected from CD patients and healthy individuals. 43 isolates were achieved from 30 CD patients (17 male, 12 female, median age 30) and 19 isolates from 7 healthy individuals (7 male, median age 19). Isolates were cultivated on LB medium at aerobic conditions up to medium log phase. Protein extraction was performed with sodium deoxycholate (DCNa) and urea, alcylation with tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine and iodacetamide. Protein trypsinolysis was performed as described in (Matyushkina et al., 2016). Total cell proteomes were analysed by shotgun proteomics with HPLC-MS/MS on a maXis qTOF mass-spectrometer. The data including HPLC-MS/MS raw files and exported Mascot search results was deposited to the PRIDE repository project accession: PXD010920, project https://doi.org/10.6019/PXD010920.
PXD011075	31372408	Human tear fluid proteome dataset for usage as a spectral library and for protein modeling. 	Human tear fluid proteome dataset for usage as a spectral library and for protein modeling	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), DDA, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), spectral library, tear fluid	This article provides a detailed dataset of human tear fluid proteins. Samples were fractionated by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gel electrophoresis resulting in 48 fractions that were spiked with an indexed retention time (iRT) peptide standard. These data are based on a data-dependent acquisition (DDA) mass spectrometric approach and can be used for example as a spectral library for tear fluid proteome analysis by data-independent acquisition (DIA). Moreover, the provided data set can be used with optimized HPLC and mass spectrometric settings for proteins/peptides of interest. Besides these aspects, this dataset can serve as a protein overview for gene ontology enrichment analysis and for modeling and benchmarking of multiple signaling pathways associated with the ocular surface in healthy or disease stages. The mass spectrometry proteomics data from the described workflow have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD011075.
PXD013265	31373204	Integration of Metabolomics and Transcriptomics To Reveal Metabolic Characteristics and Key Targets Associated with Cisplatin Resistance in Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer. 	Integration of metabolomics and transcriptomics to reveal metabolic characteristics and key targets associated with cisplatin resistance in non-small cell lung cancer	NSCLC, cisplatin resistance, metabolomics, transcriptomics	Continuous exposure to cisplatin can induce drug resistance to limit efficacy; however, the underlying mechanisms correlated with cisplatin resistance are still unclear. Drug-sensitive A549 cells and cisplatin-resistant A549/DDP cells were used to explore the potential metabolic pathways and key targets associated with cisplatin resistance by integrating untargeted metabolomics with transcriptomics. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013265. The results of comprehensive analyses showed that 19 metabolites were significantly changed in A549/DDP versus A549 cells, and some pathways had a close relationship with cisplatin resistance, such as the biosynthesis of aminoacyl-tRNA, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and glutathione metabolism. Moreover, transcriptomics analysis showed that the glutathione metabolism was also obviously affected in A549/DDP, which indicated that the glutathione metabolism played an important role in the process of drug resistance. Meanwhile, transcriptomics analysis suggested the four enzymes related to glutathione metabolism-CD13, GPX4, RRM2B, and OPLAH-as potential targets of cisplatin resistance in nonsmall cell lung cancer. Further studies identified the overexpression of these four enzymes in A549/DDP. The elucidation of mechanism and discovery of new potential targets may help us have a better understanding of cisplatin resistance.
PXD014070	31373289	Differential Protein Expression Profiles of Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid Following Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Direct and Indirect Lung Injury in Mice. 	Differential protein expression profiles of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid following lipopolysaccharide-induced direct and indirect lung injury in mice	Acute lung injury (ALI)/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), murine lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced direct and indirect lung injury model	The pathogenic mechanisms of acute lung injury due to direct and indirect pulmonary insults are incompletely understood. Using an unbiased, discovery and quantitative proteomic approach, we examined bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) proteome following lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced direct and indirect lung injury in mice. A total of 1017 proteins were both identified and quantitated in BALF from control, intratracheal (I.T., direct) and intraperitoneal (I.P., indirect) LPS-treated mice. The two LPS groups shared 13 up-regulated and 22 down-regulated proteins compared to the control group. Ingenuity pathway analysis revealed that acute-phase response signaling was activated by both I.T. and I.P. LPS; however, the magnitude of activation was much greater in the I.T. LPS group. Intriguingly, two canonical signaling pathways, liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor activation, and the production of nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species in macrophages, were activated by I.T. but suppressed by I.P. LPS. Cxcl15 (also known as lungkine) was also up-regulated by I.T. but down-regulated by I.P. LPS. In conclusion, our quantitative discovery-based proteomic approach identified commonalities, as well as significant differences in BALF protein expression profiles between LPS-induced direct and indirect lung injury, and importantly, LPS-induced indirect lung injury resulted in suppression of select components of lung innate immunity.
PXD013628	31373371	Shotgun Proteomic Analysis Highlights the Roles of Long-Lived mRNAs and De Novo Transcribed mRNAs in Rice Seeds upon Imbibition. 	Identification of proteins synthesized from long-lived mRNAs during seed germination in rice	Embryo, Imbibition, Rice, alpha-amanitin	During seed germination, proteins are translated not only from mRNAs newly transcribed upon imbibition but also from long-lived mRNAs that are synthesized during seed maturation and stored in the mature dry seeds. To clarify the distinct roles of proteins translated from long-lived mRNAs and de novo transcribed mRNAs in germinating rice embryos, proteome analysis based on liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) combining the use of a transcriptional inhibitor was performed. We observed that alpha-amanitin significantly represses transcription in germinating embryos; nevertheless, the embryos could germinate, albeit slowly. The proteomic analysis revealed that a total of 109 proteins were translated from long-lived mRNAs associated with germination as well as 222 proteins whose expression were dependent on de novo transcription upon imbibition. Transcriptomic datasets available in public databases demonstrated that mRNAs of the 222 proteins notably increased during germination while those of the 109 proteins highly accumulated in dry embryos and constitutively expressed upon imbibition. Gene Ontology enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis indicated that many of the 109 proteins from long-lived mRNAs are implicated in energy production such as glycolysis or annotated as nucleotide binding proteins, while the 222 proteins are involved in pathways such as pyruvate metabolism and TCA cycle following glycolysis, and momilactones biosynthesis. We propose that long-lived mRNAs support initial energy production and activation of translational machinery upon imbibition whereas de novo transcription accelerates the energy production after glycolysis, which enables rice seeds to germinate vigorously.
PXD014731	31373491	Aspartate Residues Far from the Active Site Drive O-GlcNAc Transferase Substrate Selection. 	Aspartate residues far from the active site drive O-GlcNAc transferase substrate selection	O-glcNAc, glycoproteomics	O-GlcNAc is an abundant post-translational modification found on nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins in all metazoans. This modification regulates a wide variety of cellular processes, and elevated O-GlcNAc levels have been implicated in cancer progression. A single essential enzyme, O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT), is responsible for all nucleocytoplasmic O-GlcNAcylation. Understanding how this enzyme chooses its substrates is critical for understanding, and potentially manipulating, its functions. Here we use protein microarray technology and proteome-wide glycosylation profiling to show that conserved aspartate residues in the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) lumen of OGT drive substrate selection. Changing these residues to alanines alters substrate selectivity and unexpectedly increases rates of protein glycosylation. Our findings support a model where sites of glycosylation for many OGT substrates are determined by TPR domain contacts to substrate side chains five to fifteen residues C-terminal to the glycosite. In addition to guiding design of inhibitors that target OGT's TPR domain, this information will inform efforts to engineer substrates to explore biological functions.
PXD014327	31375486	Functional Differences in the Blooming Phytoplankton Heterosigma akashiwo and Prorocentrum donghaiense Revealed by Comparative Metaproteomics. 	Metaproteomic insights into two phytoplankton	Metaproteomic phytoplankton blooms	Phytoplankton blooms are natural phenomena in the ocean, which are the results of rapid cell growth of some phytoplankton species in a unique environment. However, little is known about the molecular events occurring during the bloom. Here, we compared metaproteomes of two phytoplankton Heterosigma akashiwo and Prorocentrum donghaiense in the coastal East China Sea. H. akashiwo and P. donghaiense accounted for 7.82% and 4.74% of the phytoplankton community protein abundances in the nonbloom sample, whereas they contributed to 60.13% and 78.09%, respectively, in their individual blooming samples. Compared with P. donghaiense, H. akashiwo possessed a significantly higher abundance of light-harvesting complex proteins, carbonic anhydrasem and RuBisCO. The blooming H. akashiwo cells expressed more proteins related to external nutrient acquisition, such as bicarbonate transporter SLC4, ammonium transporter, nitrite transporter, and alkaline phosphatase, while the blooming P. donghaiense cells highly expressed proteins related to extra- and intracellular organic nutrient utilization, such as amino acid transporter, 5'-nucleotidase, acid phosphatase, and tripeptidyl-peptidase. The strong capabilities of light harvesting, as well as acquisition and assimilation of inorganic carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus, facilitated the formation of the H. akashiwo bloom under the high turbidity and inorganic nutrient-sufficient condition, whereas the competitive advantages in organic nutrient acquisition and reallocation guaranteed the occurrence of the P. donghaiense bloom under the inorganic nutrient-insufficient condition. This study highlights the power of metaproteomics for revealing the underlying molecular behaviors of different coexisting phytoplankton species and advances our knowledge on the formation of phytoplankton blooms.IMPORTANCE A deep understanding of the mechanisms driving bloom formation is a prerequisite for effective bloom management. Metaproteomics was applied in this study to reveal the adaptive and responsive strategies of two coexisting phytoplankton species, H. akashiwo and P. donghaiense, during their bloom periods. Metabolic features and niche divergence in light harvesting, as well as carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus acquisition and assimilation likely promoted the bloom occurrence under different environments. The molecular behaviors of coexisting bloom-causing species will give clues for bloom monitoring and management in the oceans.
PXD013400	31375683	PAWH1 and PAWH2 are plant-specific components of an Arabidopsis endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation complex. 	Arabidopsis Hrd1 complex -  PAWH1 and PAWH2 are plant-specific components of an Arabidopsis endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation complex	EBS7, ER stress, ERAD, Hrd1, PAWH1, PAWH2, UPR	Endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) is a unique mechanism to degrade misfolded proteins via complexes containing several highly-conserved ER-anchored ubiquitin ligases such as HMG-CoA reductase degradation1 (Hrd1). Arabidopsis has a similar Hrd1-containing ERAD machinery; however, our knowledge of this complex is limited. Here we report two closely-related Arabidopsis proteins, Protein Associated With Hrd1-1 (PAWH1) and PAWH2, which share a conserved domain with yeast Altered Inheritance of Mitochondria24. PAWH1 and PAWH2 localize to the ER membrane and associate with Hrd1 via EMS-mutagenized Bri1 Suppressor7 (EBS7), a plant-specific component of the Hrd1 complex. Simultaneously elimination of two PAWHs constitutively activates the unfolded protein response and compromises stress tolerance. Importantly, the pawh1 pawh2 double mutation reduces the protein abundance of EBS7 and Hrd1 and inhibits degradation of several ERAD substrates. Our study not only discovers additional plant-specific components of the Arabidopsis Hrd1 complex but also reveals a distinct mechanism for regulating the Hrd1 stability.
PXD011995	31377116	Early Scanning of Nascent Polypeptides inside the Ribosomal Tunnel by NAC. 	Early Scanning of Nascent Polypeptides inside the Ribosomal Tunnel by NAC	NAC, UV-crosslinking, q-XL-MS, structural mass spectrometry	Cotranslational processing of newly synthesized proteins is fundamental for correct protein maturation. Protein biogenesis factors are thought to bind nascent polypeptides not before they exit the ribosomal tunnel. Here, we identify a nascent chain recognition mechanism deep inside the ribosomal tunnel by an essential eukaryotic cytosolic chaperone. The nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC) inserts the N-terminal tail of its beta subunit (N-betaNAC) into the ribosomal tunnel to sense substrates directly upon synthesis close to the peptidyl-transferase center. N-betaNAC escorts the growing polypeptide to the cytosol and relocates to an alternate binding site on the ribosomal surface. Using C. elegans as an in vivo model, we demonstrate that the tunnel-probing activity of NAC is essential for organismal viability and critical to regulate endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein transport by controlling ribosome-Sec61 translocon interactions. Thus, eukaryotic protein maturation relies on the early sampling of nascent chains inside the ribosomal tunnel.
PXD020169	31380149	Comprehensive map and functional annotation of the mouse white adipose tissue proteome. 	Comprehensive Map and Functional Annotation of the Mouse White Adipose Tissue Proteome	white adipose tissue	White adipose tissue (WAT) plays a significant role in energy metabolism and the obesity epidemic. In this study, we sought to (1) profile the mouse WAT proteome with advanced 2DLC/MS/MS approach, (2) provide insight into WAT function based on protein functional annotation, and (3) predict potentially secreted proteins. A label-free 2DLC/MS/MS proteomic approach was used to identify the WAT proteome from female mouse WAT. A total of 6,039 proteins in WAT were identified, among which 5,160 were quantified (spanning a magnitude of 10(6)) using an intensity-based absolute quantification algorithm, and 3,117 proteins were reported by proteomics technology for the first time in WAT. To comprehensively analyze the function of WAT, the proteins were divided into three quantiles based on abundance and we found that proteins of different abundance performed different functions. High-abundance proteins (the top 90%, 1,219 proteins) were involved in energy metabolism; middle-abundance proteins (90-99%, 2,273 proteins) were involved in the regulation of protein synthesis; and low-abundance proteins (99-100%, 1,668 proteins) were associated with lipid metabolism and WAT beiging. Furthermore, 800 proteins were predicted by SignalP4.0 to have signal peptides, 265 proteins had never been reported, and five have been reported as adipokines. The above results provide a large dataset of the normal mouse WAT proteome, which might be useful for WAT function research.
PXD012003	31382537	An Insight into the Proteome of Uveal Melanoma-Derived Ectosomes Reveals the Presence of Potentially Useful Biomarkers. 	An insight into the proteome of uveal melanoma-derived ectosomes reveals the presence of potentially useful biomarkers	ectosomes, extracellular vesicles, glycosylation, lectins, uveal melanoma	Cancer cells are known to release extracellular vesicles that often promote disease development and progression. The present study investigated the protein content and glycosylation pattern of ectosomes released in vitro by a human primary uveal melanoma Mel202 cell line. Ectosomes released by Mel202 cells were isolated from conditioned media using sequential centrifugation, and a nano-LC-MS/MS approach was used to determine their protein content. Subsequently, proteins from ectosomes, the whole cell extracts, and the membrane fractions were probed with a panel of lectins using Western blotting and flow cytometry to reveal characteristic glycan structures. As many as 2527 unique proteins were identified, and many of them are known to be involved in cancer cell proliferation and altered metabolism, tumor invasion, metastasis, or drug resistance. Lectin-based studies revealed a distinct glycosylation pattern between Mel202-derived ectosomes and the parental cell membranes. Selective enrichment of ectosomal proteins with bisected complex type N-glycans and alpha2,6-linked sialic acids may be significant for ectosome formation and sequestration. Differences in the surface glycosylation of Mel202 cells and ectosomes supports recent findings that the budding of ectosomes occurs within strictly determined fragments of the plasma membrane, and thus ectosomes contain a unique protein and glycan composition.
PXD013030	31383764	Resistance in marine cyanobacteria differs against specialist and generalist cyanophages. 	Resistance Strategies Differ Against Specialist and Generalist Cyanophages	Cyanobacterial, cyanophages, resistance	Long-term coexistence between unicellular cyanobacteria and their lytic viruses (cyanophages) in the oceans is thought to be due to the presence of sensitive cells in which cyanophages reproduce, ultimately killing the cell, while other cyanobacteria survive due to resistance to infection. Here, we investigated resistance in marine cyanobacteria from the genera Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus and compared modes of resistance against specialist and generalist cyanophages belonging to the T7-like and T4-like cyanophage families. Resistance was extracellular in most interactions against specialist cyanophages irrespective of the phage family, preventing entry into the cell. In contrast, resistance was intracellular in practically all interactions against generalist T4-like cyanophages. The stage of intracellular arrest was interaction-specific, halting at various stages of the infection cycle. Incomplete infection cycles proceeded to various degrees of phage genome transcription and translation as well as phage genome replication in numerous interactions. In a particularly intriguing case, intracellular capsid assembly was observed, but the phage genome was not packaged. The cyanobacteria survived the encounter despite late-stage infection and partial genome degradation. We hypothesize that this is tolerated due to genome polyploidy, which we found for certain strains of both Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus Our findings unveil a heavy cost of promiscuous entry of generalist phages into nonhost cells that is rarely paid by specialist phages and suggests the presence of unknown mechanisms of intracellular resistance in the marine unicellular cyanobacteria. Furthermore, these findings indicate that the range for virus-mediated horizontal gene transfer extends beyond hosts to nonhost cyanobacterial cells.
PXD011063	31384044	Glyco-DIA: a method for quantitative O-glycoproteomics with in silico-boosted glycopeptide libraries. 	Glyco-DIA: a method for quantitative O-glycoproteomics with in silico-boosted glycopeptide libraries	Data Independent Acquisition, Glycoproteomics, O-glycosylation, human serum	We report a liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry O-glycoproteomics strategy using data-independent acquisition (DIA) mode for direct analysis of O-glycoproteins. This approach enables characterization of glycopeptides and structures of O-glycans on a proteome-wide scale with quantification of stoichiometries (though it does not allow for direct unambiguous glycosite identification). The method relies on a spectral library of O-glycopeptides; the Glyco-DIA library contains sublibraries obtained from human cell lines and human serum, and it currently covers 2,076 O-glycoproteins (11,452 unique glycopeptide sequences) and the 5 most common core1 O-glycan structures. Applying the Glyco-DIA library to human serum without enrichment for glycopeptides enabled us to identify and quantify 269 distinct glycopeptide sequences bearing up to 5 different core1 O-glycans from 159 glycoproteins in a SingleShot analysis.
PXD011201	31384064	The nascent RNA binding complex SFiNX licenses piRNA-guided heterochromatin formation. 	A nuclear RNA export factor variant licenses piRNA-guided heterochromatin formation	Nxf2, Nxt1, OSC, Panoramix, SFINX, Silencio	The PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway protects genome integrity in part through establishing repressive heterochromatin at transposon loci. Silencing requires piRNA-guided targeting of nuclear PIWI proteins to nascent transposon transcripts, yet the subsequent molecular events are not understood. Here, we identify SFiNX (silencing factor interacting nuclear export variant), an interdependent protein complex required for Piwi-mediated cotranscriptional silencing in Drosophila. SFiNX consists of Nxf2-Nxt1, a gonad-specific variant of the heterodimeric messenger RNA export receptor Nxf1-Nxt1 and the Piwi-associated protein Panoramix. SFiNX mutant flies are sterile and exhibit transposon derepression because piRNA-loaded Piwi is unable to establish heterochromatin. Within SFiNX, Panoramix recruits heterochromatin effectors, while the RNA binding protein Nxf2 licenses cotranscriptional silencing. Our data reveal how Nxf2 might have evolved from an RNA transport receptor into a cotranscriptional silencing factor. Thus, NXF variants, which are abundant in metazoans, can have diverse molecular functions and might have been coopted for host genome defense more broadly.
PXD012574	31387980	Proteomic and genomic signatures of repeat instability in cancer and adjacent normal tissues. 	Proteomic and Genomic Signatures of Repeat-instability in Cancer and Adjacent Normal Tissues	Repeat-instability, proteomic signatures, tumor evolution	Repetitive sequences are hotspots of evolution at multiple levels. However, due to difficulties involved in their assembly and analysis, the role of repeats in tumor evolution is poorly understood. We developed a rigorous motif-based methodology to quantify variations in the repeat content, beyond microsatellites, in proteomes and genomes directly from proteomic and genomic raw data. This method was applied to a wide range of tumors and normal tissues. We identify high similarity between repeat instability patterns in tumors and their patient-matched adjacent normal tissues. Nonetheless, tumor-specific signatures both in protein expression and in the genome strongly correlate with cancer progression and robustly predict the tumorigenic state. In a patient, the hierarchy of genomic repeat instability signatures accurately reconstructs tumor evolution, with primary tumors differentiated from metastases. We observe an inverse relationship between repeat instability and point mutation load within and across patients independent of other somatic aberrations. Thus, repeat instability is a distinct, transient, and compensatory adaptive mechanism in tumor evolution and a potential signal for early detection.
PXD012714	31390572	Mutations in the Heterotopia Gene Eml1/EML1 Severely Disrupt the Formation of Primary Cilia. 	Embryonic cortical extract mass spectrometry to identify EML1 interactors	EML1, Murine, development, neocortex	Apical radial glia (aRGs) are predominant progenitors during corticogenesis. Perturbing their function leads to cortical malformations, including subcortical heterotopia (SH), characterized by the presence of neurons below the cortex. EML1/Eml1 mutations lead to SH in patients, as well as to heterotopic cortex (HeCo) mutant mice. In HeCo mice, some aRGs are abnormally positioned away from the ventricular zone (VZ). Thus, unraveling EML1/Eml1 function will clarify mechanisms maintaining aRGs in the VZ. We pinpoint an unknown EML1/Eml1 function in primary cilium formation. In HeCo aRGs, cilia are shorter, less numerous, and often found aberrantly oriented within vesicles. Patient fibroblasts and human cortical progenitors show similar defects. EML1 interacts with RPGRIP1L, a ciliary protein, and RPGRIP1L mutations were revealed in a heterotopia patient. We also identify Golgi apparatus abnormalities in EML1/Eml1 mutant cells, potentially upstream of the cilia phenotype. We thus reveal primary cilia mechanisms impacting aRG dynamics in physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD009039	31390575	Landscape of the Plasmodium Interactome Reveals Both Conserved and Species-Specific Functionality. 	Dissecting the malaria interactome	P. berghei, P. falciparum, P. knowlesi, Plasmodium, blue native PAGE, fractionation, interactome, malaria, multiprotein complexes, protein-protein interactions, schizont	Malaria represents a major global health issue, and the identification of new intervention targets remains an urgent priority. This search is hampered by more than one-third of the genes of malaria-causing Plasmodium parasites being uncharacterized. We report a large-scale protein interaction network in Plasmodium schizonts, generated by combining blue native-polyacrylamide electrophoresis with quantitative mass spectrometry and machine learning. This integrative approach, spanning 3 species, identifies >20,000 putative protein interactions, organized into 600 protein clusters. We validate selected interactions, assigning functions in chromatin regulation to previously unannotated proteins and suggesting a role for an EELM2 domain-containing protein and a putative microrchidia protein as mechanistic links between AP2-domain transcription factors and epigenetic regulation. Our interactome represents a high-confidence map of the native organization of core cellular processes in Plasmodium parasites. The network reveals putative functions for uncharacterized proteins, provides mechanistic and structural insight, and uncovers potential alternative therapeutic targets.
PXD014136	31391303	An influenza virus-triggered SUMO switch orchestrates co-opted endogenous retroviruses to stimulate host antiviral immunity. 	Changes to SUMO2 conjugation during Influenza virus infection of cultured cells	Influenza, NS1, SUMO	Dynamic small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) linkages to diverse cellular protein groups are critical to orchestrate resolution of stresses such as genome damage, hypoxia, or proteotoxicity. Defense against pathogen insult (often reliant upon host recognition of "non-self" nucleic acids) is also modulated by SUMO, but the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here, we used quantitative SILAC-based proteomics to survey pan-viral host SUMOylation responses, creating a resource of almost 600 common and unique SUMO remodeling events that are mounted during influenza A and B virus infections, as well as during viral innate immune stimulation. Subsequent mechanistic profiling focused on a common infection-induced loss of the SUMO-modified form of TRIM28/KAP1, a host transcriptional repressor. By integrating knockout and reconstitution models with system-wide transcriptomics, we provide evidence that influenza virus-triggered loss of SUMO-modified TRIM28 leads to derepression of endogenous retroviral (ERV) elements, unmasking this cellular source of "self" double-stranded (ds)RNA. Consequently, loss of SUMO-modified TRIM28 potentiates canonical cytosolic dsRNA-activated IFN-mediated defenses that rely on RIG-I, MAVS, TBK1, and JAK1. Intriguingly, although wild-type influenza A virus robustly triggers this SUMO switch in TRIM28, the induction of IFN-stimulated genes is limited unless expression of the viral dsRNA-binding protein NS1 is abrogated. This may imply a viral strategy to antagonize such a host response by sequestration of induced immunostimulatory ERV dsRNAs. Overall, our data reveal that a key nuclear mechanism that normally prevents aberrant expression of ERV elements (ERVs) has been functionally co-opted via a stress-induced SUMO switch to augment antiviral immunity.
PXD013466	31391467	S100A9 extends lifespan in insulin deficiency. 	Assessing the effect of leptin central administration on plasma proteins in insulin deficient mice.	Brain, Glycemia, Insulin deficiency, Leptin, Plasma	Tens of millions suffer from insulin deficiency (ID); a defect leading to severe metabolic imbalance and death. The only means for management of ID is insulin therapy; yet, this approach is sub-optimal and causes life-threatening hypoglycemia. Hence, ID represents a great medical and societal challenge. Here we report that S100A9, also known as Calgranulin B or Myeloid-Related Protein 14 (MRP14), is a leptin-induced circulating cue exerting beneficial anti-diabetic action. In murine models of ID, enhanced expression of S100A9 alone (i.e. without administered insulin and/or leptin) slightly improves hyperglycemia, and normalizes key metabolic defects (e.g. hyperketonemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and increased hepatic fatty acid oxidation; FAO), and extends lifespan by at least a factor of two. Mechanistically, we report that Toll-Like Receptor 4 (TLR4) is required, at least in part, for the metabolic-improving and pro-survival effects of S100A9. Thus, our data identify the S100A9/TLR4 axis as a putative target for ID care.
PXD014479	31393699	N-Terminomics/TAILS Profiling of Proteases and Their Substrates in Ulcerative Colitis. 	N-terminomics/TAILS profiling of proteases and their substrates in ulcerative colitis	TAILS, biopsies, protease, ulcerative colitis	Dysregulated protease activity is often implicated in the initiation of inflammation and immune cell recruitment in gastrointestinal inflammatory diseases. Using N-terminomics/TAILS (terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates), we compared proteases, along with their substrates and inhibitors, between colonic mucosal biopsies of healthy patients and those with ulcerative colitis (UC). Among the 1642 N-termini enriched using TAILS, increased endogenous processing of proteins was identified in UC compared to healthy patients. Changes in the reactome pathways for proteins associated with metabolism, adherens junction proteins (E-cadherin, liver-intestinal cadherin, catenin alpha-1, and catenin delta-1), and neutrophil degranulation were identified between the two groups. Increased neutrophil infiltration and distinct proteases observed in ulcerative colitis may result in extensive break down, altered processing, or increased remodeling of adherens junctions and other cellular functions. Analysis of the preferred proteolytic cleavage sites indicated that the majority of proteolytic activity and processing comes from host proteases, but that key microbial proteases may also play a role in maintaining homeostasis. Thus, the identification of distinct proteases and processing of their substrates improves the understanding of dysregulated proteolysis in normal intestinal physiology and ulcerative colitis.
PXD010250	31394312	Proteomic analysis revealed the survival strategy of Coxiella burnetii to doxycycline exposure. 	Tolerant Coxiella burnetii survives doxycycline stress: Proteomics reveals crucial mechanisms	Q fever, antibiotic, axenic medium, cell envelope homeostasis, enzymatic antioxidants, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis	Antibiotic resistance is a global threat with a top concern in healthcare. Doxycycline is an antibiotic highly permeable to cell membrane used for treating a broad variety of bacteria, including Coxiella burnetii. This intracellular pathogen is the causative agent of Q fever, a re-emerging zoonosis found worldwide. Hence, C. burnetii has a considerable impact on the farming industry and public health, it is essential to explore its antibiotic adaptation/tolerance strategy to ensure effective therapy. Herein, we tracked changes in the bacterium induced by doxycycline exposure. Our proteomic analysis detected fifteen significantly altered proteins. Adjustments of some key proteins were verified by gene expression analysis. We also observed an increasing in hydrogen peroxide as a consequence of treatment, indicating deregulation of redox balance. Thus, our data suggests the reduction of protein synthesis to minimal levels, activation of the defense mechanism against oxidative stress and maintenance of cell envelope integrity as the key processes ensuring C. burnetii survival under doxycycline exposure. SIGNIFICANCE: Infection by intracellular microorganisms like C. burnetii requires long periods of treatment, thus antibiotic resistance development is a risk. In this report, 2-DE quantitative proteomics was used to identify changes in the proteome that occurs when C. burnetii is exposed to high concentrations of doxycycline. The identification of pathways impacted by doxycycline could be helpful to understand the mechanism of how C. burnetii is dealing with antibiotic stress.
PXD013744	31395095	Glyphosate does not substitute for glycine in proteins of actively dividing mammalian cells. 	Glyphosate_proteomics -  Glyphosate does not substitute for glycine in proteins of actively dividing mammalian cells	Glyphosate Glyoxylate Glycine Protein Modification TMT	OBJECTIVES: Glyphosate (N-phosphonomethyl glycine) and its commercial herbicide formulations have been shown to exert toxicity via various mechanisms. It has been asserted that glyphosate substitutes for glycine in polypeptide chains leading to protein misfolding and toxicity. However, as no direct evidence exists for glycine to glyphosate substitution in proteins, including in mammalian organisms, we tested this claim by conducting a proteomics analysis of MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells grown in the presence of 100 mg/L glyphosate for 6 days. Protein extracts from three treated and three untreated cell cultures were analysed as one TMT-6plex labelled sample, to highlight a specific pattern (+/+/+/-/-/-) of reporter intensities for peptides bearing true glyphosate treatment induced-post translational modifications as well as allowing an investigation of the total proteome. RESULTS: Comparative statistical analysis of global proteome changes between glyphosate treated and non-treated samples did not show significant differences. Crucially, filtering of data to focus analysis on peptides potentially bearing glycine for glyphosate replacement revealed that the TMT reporter intensity pattern of all candidates showed conclusively that they are all false discoveries, with none displaying the expected TMT pattern for such a substitution. Thus, the assertion that glyphosate substitutes for glycine in protein polypeptide chains is incorrect.
PXD010357	31395880	Proteogenomic landscape of squamous cell lung cancer. 	Proteogenomic Landscape of Squamous Cell Lung Cancer 1: Digestion QC with DIA LC-MS/MS	DIA, Lung Cancer, Squamous Cell Carcinoma	How genomic and transcriptomic alterations affect the functional proteome in lung cancer is not fully understood. Here, we integrate DNA copy number, somatic mutations, RNA-sequencing, and expression proteomics in a cohort of 108 squamous cell lung cancer (SCC) patients. We identify three proteomic subtypes, two of which (Inflamed, Redox) comprise 87% of tumors. The Inflamed subtype is enriched with neutrophils, B-cells, and monocytes and expresses more PD-1. Redox tumours are enriched for oxidation-reduction and glutathione pathways and harbor more NFE2L2/KEAP1 alterations and copy gain in the 3q2 locus. Proteomic subtypes are not associated with patient survival. However, B-cell-rich tertiary lymph node structures, more common in Inflamed, are associated with better survival. We identify metabolic vulnerabilities (TP63, PSAT1, and TFRC) in Redox. Our work provides a powerful resource for lung SCC biology and suggests therapeutic opportunities based on redox metabolism and immune cell infiltrates.
PXD013977	31396208	Toll-Like Receptor 2 Release by Macrophages: An Anti-inflammatory Program Induced by Glucocorticoids and Lipopolysaccharide. 	Toll like receptor 2release by macrophages	LCMSMS human EVC, THP-1 monocytes	Glucocorticoids (GCs) are widely prescribed therapeutics for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, and endogenous GCs play a key role in immune regulation. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) enable innate immune cells, such as macrophages, to recognize a wide variety of microbial ligands, thereby promoting inflammation. The interaction of GCs with macrophages in the immunosuppressive resolution phase upon prolonged TLR activation is widely unknown. Treatment of human alveolar macrophages (AMs) with the synthetic GC dexamethasone (Dex) did not alter the expression of TLRs -1, -4, and -6. In contrast, TLR2 was upregulated in a GC receptor-dependent manner, as shown by Western blot and qPCR. Furthermore, long-term lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure mimicking immunosuppression in the resolution phase of inflammation synergistically increased Dex-mediated TLR2 upregulation. Analyses of publicly available datasets suggested that TLR2 is induced during the resolution phase of inflammatory diseases, i.e., under conditions associated with high endogenous GC production. TLR2 induction did not enhance TLR2 signaling, as indicated by reduced cytokine production after treatment with TLR2 ligands in Dex- and/or LPS-primed AMs. Thus, we hypothesized that the upregulated membrane-bound TLR2 might serve as a precursor for soluble TLR2 (sTLR2), known to antagonize TLR2-dependent cell actions. Supernatants of LPS/Dex-primed macrophages contained sTLR2, as demonstrated by Western blot analysis. Activation of metalloproteinases resulted in enhanced sTLR2 shedding. Additionally, we detected full-length TLR2 and assumed that this might be due to the production of TLR2-containing extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs from macrophage supernatants were isolated by sequential centrifugation. Both untreated and LPS/Dex-treated cells produced vesicles of various sizes and shapes, as shown by cryo-transmission electron microscopy. These vesicles were identified as the source of full-length TLR2 in macrophage supernatants by Western blot and mass spectrometry. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that TLR2-containing EVs were able to bind the TLR2 ligand Pam3CSK4. In addition, the presence of EVs reduced inflammatory responses in Pam3CSK4-treated endothelial cells and HEK Dual reporter cells, demonstrating that TLR2-EVs can act as decoy receptors. In summary, our data show that sTLR2 and full-length TLR2 are released by macrophages under anti-inflammatory conditions, which may contribute to GC-induced immunosuppression.
PXD013356	31396628	Parallel Evolution of Complex Centipede Venoms Revealed by Comparative Proteotranscriptomic Analyses. 	Compositional evolution of centipede venom	centipede, toxin, venom, venom gland	Centipedes are among the most ancient groups of venomous predatory arthropods. Extant species belong to five orders, but our understanding of the composition and evolution of centipede venoms is based almost exclusively on one order, Scolopendromorpha. To gain a broader and less biased understanding we performed a comparative proteotranscriptomic analysis of centipede venoms from all five orders, including the first venom profiles for the orders Lithobiomorpha, Craterostigmomorpha, and Geophilomorpha. Our results reveal an astonishing structural diversity of venom components, with 93 phylogenetically distinct protein and peptide families. Proteomically-annotated gene trees of these putative toxin families show that centipede venom composition is highly dynamic across macroevolutionary timescales, with numerous gene duplications as well as functional recruitments and losses of toxin gene families. Strikingly, not a single family is found in the venoms of representatives of all five orders, with 67 families being unique for single orders. Ancestral state reconstructions reveal that centipede venom originated as a simple cocktail comprising just four toxin families, with very little compositional evolution happening during the approximately 50 My before the living orders had diverged. Venom complexity then increased in parallel within the orders, with scolopendromorphs evolving particularly complex venoms. Our results show that even venoms composed of toxins evolving under the strong constraint of negative selection can have striking evolutionary plasticity on the compositional level. We show that the functional recruitments and losses of toxin families that shape centipede venom arsenals are not concentrated early in their evolutionary history, but happen frequently throughout.
PXD014430	31397080	Co-expression Network Analysis Identified Key Proteins in Association With Hepatic Metastatic Colorectal Cancer. 	Proteomics analysis identified key proteins in association with hepatic metastatic colorectal cancer	CRC, Label-free, Metastasis	PURPOSE: Intense efforts have been made in colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment in recent decades. However, the mechanism of development and metastasis of CRC has not been fully cleared. This study is designed to identify key proteins involved in stage III and hepatic metastatic CRC. EXPERIMENT DESIGN: Protein expression profiles of paired tumor and benign tissue samples from stage III and hepatic metastatic CRC patients are characterized by using a label-free proteomics approach. Key proteins relevant to hepatic metastatic CRC are revealed by weighted gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA) and other bioinformatics tools. RESULTS: WGCNA reveals three hub modules: CRC without specific stage (turquoise), stage III CRC (blue), and hepatic metastatic CRC (green). Nine key proteins (heat shock protein family D member 1 (HSPD1), eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 gamma, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1, fibrinogen beta chain (FGB), Talin 1, adaptor related protein complex 2 subunit alpha 2, serrate RNA effector molecule homolog, apolipoprotein C3, phosphoglucomutase 5) are identified. Moreover, upregulation of HSPD1 is validated in CRC tissue by the immunohistochemistry. Upregulation of fibrinogen is validated in metastatic CRC by plasma fibrinogen assay. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study provides the proteomic analysis of stage III and hepatic metastatic CRC to identify key proteins of CRC. FGB plays a key role to serve as diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers for hepatic metastatic CRC.
PXD012404	31398006	Dual-Functional Titanium(IV) Immobilized Metal Affinity Chromatography Approach for Enabling Large-Scale Profiling of Protein Mannose-6-Phosphate Glycosylation and Revealing Its Predominant Substrates. 	Mouse Liver Mannose-6-Phosphate Glycoproteome LC-MSMS	Mannose-6-phosphate, glycoproteome, mouse liver	Mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) glycosylation is an important post-translational modification (PTM) and plays a crucial role in transferring lysosomal hydrolases to lysosome, and is involved in several other biological processes. Aberrant M6P modifications have been implicated in lysosomal storage diseases and numerous other disorders including Alzheimer's disease and cancer. Research on profiling of intact M6P glycopeptides remains challenging due to its extremely low stoichiometry. Here we propose a dual-mode affinity approach to enrich M6P glycopeptides by dual-functional titanium(IV) immobilized metal affinity chromatography [Ti(IV)-IMAC] materials. In combination with state-of-the-art mass spectrometry and database search engine, we profiled 237 intact M6P glycopeptides corresponding to 81 M6P glycoproteins in five types of tissues in mouse, representing the first large-scale profiling of M6P glycosylation in mouse samples. The analysis of M6P glycoforms revealed the predominant glycan substrates of this PTM. Gene ontology analysis showed that overrepresented M6P glycoproteins were lysosomal-associated proteins. However, there were still substantial M6P glycoproteins that possessed different subcellular locations and molecular functions. Deep mining of their roles implicated in lysosomal and nonlysosomal function can provide new insights into functional roles of this important yet poorly studied modification.
PXD010902	31398141	Alterations in rat adipose tissue transcriptome and proteome in response to prolonged fasting. 	Rat white adipose tissue DIGE-LC-MSMS	2D-DIGE, Rat, fasting, white adipose tissue	Various pathophysiological situations of negative energy balance involve the intense depletion of the body's energy reserves. White adipose tissue is a central place to store energy and a major endocrine organ. As a model of choice to better understand how the white adipose tissue dynamically responds to changes in substrate availability, we used the prolonged fasting paradigm, which is characterized by successive periods of stimulated (phase 2) and then reduced (phase 3) lipid mobilization/utilization. Using omics analyses, we report a regulatory transcriptional program in rat epididymal (EPI) adipose tissue favoring lipolysis during phase 2 and repressing it during phase 3. Changes in gene expression levels of lipases, lipid droplet-associated factors, and the proteins involved in cAMP-dependent and cAMP-independent regulation of lipolysis are highlighted. The mRNA and circulating levels of adipose-secreted factors were consistent with the repression of insulin signaling during prolonged fasting. Other molecular responses are discussed, including the regulation of leptin and adiponectin levels, the specific changes reflecting an increased fibrinolysis and a possible protein catabolism-related energy saving mechanism in late fasting. Finally, some differences between internal and subcutaneous (SC) adipose tissues are also reported. These data provide a comprehensive molecular basis of adipose tissue responses when facing a major energetic challenge.
PXD014334	31398338	The Oncogenic Action of NRF2 Depends on De-glycation by Fructosamine-3-Kinase. 	The oncogenic action of NRF2 depends on de-glycation by Fructosamine-3-kinase (FN3K)	AGE, FN3K, NRF2, glycation, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)	The NRF2 transcription factor controls a cell stress program that is implicated in cancer and there is great interest in targeting NRF2 for therapy. We show that NRF2 activity depends on Fructosamine-3-kinase (FN3K)-a kinase that triggers protein de-glycation. In its absence, NRF2 is extensively glycated, unstable, and defective at binding to small MAF proteins and transcriptional activation. Moreover, the development of hepatocellular carcinoma triggered by MYC and Keap1 inactivation depends on FN3K in vivo. N-acetyl cysteine treatment partially rescues the effects of FN3K loss on NRF2 driven tumor phenotypes indicating a key role for NRF2-mediated redox balance. Mass spectrometry reveals that other proteins undergo FN3K-sensitive glycation, including translation factors, heat shock proteins, and histones. How glycation affects their functions remains to be defined. In summary, our study reveals a surprising role for the glycation of cellular proteins and implicates FN3K as targetable modulator of NRF2 activity in cancer.
PXD012717	31398345	A Heterochromatin-Specific RNA Export Pathway Facilitates piRNA Production. 	A heterochromatin specific RNA export pathway facilitates piRNA production	Drosophila, Ovary, export, piRNA	PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) guide transposon silencing in animals. The 22-30 nt piRNAs are processed in the cytoplasm from long non-coding RNAs that often lack RNA processing hallmarks of export-competent transcripts. By studying how these transcripts achieve nuclear export, we uncover an RNA export pathway specific for piRNA precursors in the Drosophila germline. This pathway requires Nxf3-Nxt1, a variant of the hetero-dimeric mRNA export receptor Nxf1-Nxt1. Nxf3 interacts with UAP56, a nuclear RNA helicase essential for mRNA export, and CG13741/Bootlegger, which recruits Nxf3-Nxt1 and UAP56 to heterochromatic piRNA source loci. Upon RNA cargo binding, Nxf3 achieves nuclear export via the exportin Crm1 and accumulates together with Bootlegger in peri-nuclear nuage, suggesting that after export, Nxf3-Bootlegger delivers precursor transcripts to the piRNA processing sites. These findings indicate that the piRNA pathway bypasses nuclear RNA surveillance systems to export unprocessed transcripts to the cytoplasm, a strategy also exploited by retroviruses.
PXD013955	31399574	The Hsp90 isoforms from S. cerevisiae differ in structure, function and client range. 	The isoforms of the molecular chaperone Hsp90 from S. cerevisiae differ in structure, function and client range	HSC90, HSP90	The molecular chaperone Hsp90 is an important regulator of proteostasis. It has remained unclear why S. cerevisiae possesses two Hsp90 isoforms, the constitutively expressed Hsc82 and the stress-inducible Hsp82. Here, we report distinct differences despite a sequence identity of 97%. Consistent with its function under stress conditions, Hsp82 is more stable and refolds more efficiently than Hsc82. The two isoforms also differ in their ATPases and conformational cycles. Hsc82 is more processive and populates closed states to a greater extent. Variations in the N-terminal ATP-binding domain modulate its dynamics and conformational cycle. Despite these differences, the client interactomes are largely identical, but isoform-specific interactors exist both under physiological and heat shock conditions. Taken together, changes mainly in the N-domain create a stress-specific, more resilient protein with a shifted activity profile. Thus, the precise tuning of the Hsp90 isoforms preserves the basic mechanism but adapts it to specific needs.
PXD011437	31400768	Shaping the lipid composition of bacterial membranes for membrane protein production. 	Improving the purification of membrane proteins from Escherichia coli C41(DE3)	Escherichia coli, expression strain, membrane proteins	BACKGROUND: The overexpression and purification of membrane proteins is a bottleneck in biotechnology and structural biology. E. coli remains the host of choice for membrane protein production. To date, most of the efforts have focused on genetically tuning of expression systems and shaping membrane composition to improve membrane protein production remained largely unexplored. RESULTS: In E. coli C41(DE3) strain, we deleted two transporters involved in fatty acid metabolism (OmpF and AcrB), which are also recalcitrant contaminants crystallizing even at low concentration. Engineered expression hosts presented an enhanced fitness and improved folding of target membrane proteins, which correlated with an altered membrane fluidity. We demonstrated the scope of this approach by overproducing several membrane proteins (4 different ABC transporters, YidC and SecYEG). CONCLUSIONS: In summary, E. coli membrane engineering unprecedentedly increases the quality and yield of membrane protein preparations. This strategy opens a new field for membrane protein production, complementary to gene expression tuning.
PXD014021	31401243	A generalized computational framework to streamline thermodynamics and kinetics analysis of metabolic pathways. 	Synechocystis PCC 6803 proteomics analysis	metabolic engineering, modeling	Metabolic engineering is a critical biotechnological approach in addressing global energy and environment challenges. Most engineering efforts, however, consist of laborious and inefficient trial-and-error of target pathways, due in part to the lack of methodologies that can comprehensively assess pathway properties in thermodynamics and kinetics. Metabolic engineering can benefit from computational tools that evaluate feasibility, expense and stability of non-natural metabolic pathways. Such tools can also help us understand natural pathways and their regulation at systems level. Here we introduce a computational toolbox, PathParser, which, for the first time, integrates multiple important functions for pathway analysis including thermodynamics analysis, kinetics-based protein cost optimization and robustness analysis. Specifically, PathParser enables optimization of the driving force of a pathway by minimizing the Gibbs free energy of least thermodynamically favorable reaction. In addition, based on reaction thermodynamics and enzyme kinetics, it can compute the minimal enzyme protein cost that supports metabolic flux, and evaluate pathway stability and flux in response to enzyme concentration perturbations. In a demo analysis of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle and photorespiration pathway in the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803, the computation results are corroborated by experimental proteomics data as well as metabolic engineering outcomes. This toolbox may have broad application in metabolic engineering and systems biology in other microbial systems.
PXD011356	31401411	A Novel Pyrazolopyrimidine Ligand of Human PGK1 and Stress Sensor DJ1 Modulates the Shelterin Complex and Telomere Length Regulation. 	Identification of novel pyrazolopyrimidine compounds that modulate the shelterin complex and telomere length regulation via phosphoglycerate kinase 1 and stress sensor DJ1	DJ1, PGK1, TRF2, shelterin, stress, telomere	Telomere signaling and metabolic dysfunction are hallmarks of cell aging. New agents targeting these processes might provide therapeutic opportunities, including chemoprevention strategies against cancer predisposition. We report identification and characterization of a pyrazolopyrimidine compound series identified from screens focused on cell immortality and whose targets are glycolytic kinase PGK1 and oxidative stress sensor DJ1. We performed structure-activity studies on the series to develop a photoaffinity probe to deconvolute the cellular targets. In vitro binding and structural analyses confirmed these targets, suggesting that PGK1/DJ1 interact, which we confirmed by immunoprecipitation. Glucose homeostasis and oxidative stress are linked to telomere signaling and exemplar compound CRT0063465 blocked hypoglycemic telomere shortening. Intriguingly, PGK1 and DJ1 bind to TRF2 and telomeric DNA. Compound treatment modulates these interactions and also affects Shelterin complex composition, while conferring cellular protection from cytotoxicity due to bleomycin and desferroxamine. These results demonstrate therapeutic potential of the compound series.
PXD012952	31403069	Neocarzilin A Is a Potent Inhibitor of Cancer Cell Motility Targeting VAT-1 Controlled Pathways. 	Neocarzilin A is a potent inhibitor of cancer cell motility targeting VAT-1 controlled pathways	Target identification, chemical proteomics, natural compound, tumor cell migration	The natural product neocarzilin A (NCA) was discovered decades ago, and despite its potent cytotoxic effects no mode of action studies have been performed up to date. Synthesis of neocarzilins A, B, and C and a stereoisomer of NCA provided insights into structural preferences as well as access to probes for functional studies. NCA turned out to be the most active member and was not only effective against cell proliferation but also migration, a novel and so far overlooked activity. To decipher the molecular mode of action, we applied chemical proteomics for target discovery and revealed that NCA targets cancer cell migration via irreversible binding to the largely uncharacterized synaptic vesicle membrane protein VAT-1. A corresponding knockout of the protein confirmed the phenotype, and pull-down studies showed the interaction with an intricate network of key migration mediators such as Talin-1. Overall, we introduce VAT-1 as a promising novel target for the development of selective migration inhibitors with the perspective to limit toxicity in the absence of antiproliferative effects.
PXD011901	31403184	Hsa-miR-139-5p is a prognostic thyroid cancer marker involved in HNRNPF-mediated alternative splicing. 	Hsa-miR-139-5p expression regulates the abundance of proteins related to poor survival cancer in CAL-62 thyroid cancer cell line	CAL-62, Hsa-miR-139-5p, Impact, iTRAQ, thyroid cancer	It is critical to identify biomarkers and functional networks associated with aggressive thyroid cancer to anticipate disease progression and facilitate personalized patient management. We performed miRNome sequencing of 46 thyroid tumors enriched with advanced disease patients with a median follow-up of 96 months. MiRNome profiles correlated with tumor-specific histopathological and molecular features, such as stromal cell infiltration and tumor driver mutation. Differential expression analysis revealed a consistent hsa-miR-139-5p downexpression in primary carcinomas from patients with recurrent/metastatic disease compared to disease-free patients, sustained in paired local metastases and validated in publicly available thyroid cancer series. Exogenous expression of hsa-miR-139-5p significantly reduced migration and proliferation of anaplastic thyroid cancer cells. Proteomic analysis indicated RICTOR, SMAD2/3 and HNRNPF as putative hsa-miR-139-5p targets in our cell system. Abundance of HNRNPF mRNA, encoding an alternative splicing factor involved in cryptic exon inclusion/exclusion, inversely correlated with hsa-miR-139-5p expression in human tumors. RNA sequencing analysis revealed 174 splicing events differentially regulated upon HNRNPF repression in our cell system, affecting genes involved in RTK/RAS/MAPK and PI3K/AKT/MTOR signaling cascades among others. These results point at the hsa-miR-139-5p/HNRNPF axis as a novel regulatory mechanism associated with the modulation of major thyroid cancer signaling pathways and tumor virulence.
PXD011322	31403225	The interactome of KRAB zinc finger proteins reveals the evolutionary history of their functional diversification. 	KRAB Zincfinger Interactome -  The interactome of KRAB zinc finger proteins reveals the evolutionary history of their functional diversification	AP-MS, KRAB, Zincfinger	Kruppel-associated box (KRAB)-containing zinc finger proteins (KZFPs) are encoded in the hundreds by the genomes of higher vertebrates, and many act with the heterochromatin-inducing KAP1 as repressors of transposable elements (TEs) during early embryogenesis. Yet, their widespread expression in adult tissues and enrichment at other genetic loci indicate additional roles. Here, we characterized the protein interactome of 101 of the ~350 human KZFPs. Consistent with their targeting of TEs, most KZFPs conserved up to placental mammals essentially recruit KAP1 and associated effectors. In contrast, a subset of more ancient KZFPs rather interacts with factors related to functions such as genome architecture or RNA processing. Nevertheless, KZFPs from coelacanth, our most distant KZFP-encoding relative, bind the cognate KAP1. These results support a hypothetical model whereby KZFPs first emerged as TE-controlling repressors, were continuously renewed by turnover of their hosts' TE loads, and occasionally produced derivatives that escaped this evolutionary flushing by development and exaptation of novel functions.
PXD016146	31403280	Clusterwise Peak Detection and Filtering Based on Spatial Distribution To Efficiently Mine Mass Spectrometry Imaging Data. 	MALDI rat liver anticancer drug spiked-in dataset (imzML)	imzML ground truth spiked-in drugs	Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) has the potential to reveal the localization of thousands of biomolecules such as metabolites and lipids in tissue sections. The increase in both mass and spatial resolution of today's instruments brings on considerable challenges in terms of data processing; accurately extracting meaningful signals from the large data sets generated by MSI without losing information that could be clinically relevant is one of the most fundamental tasks of analysis software. Ion images of the biomolecules are generated by visualizing their intensities in 2-D space using mass spectra collected across the tissue section. The intensities are often calculated by summing each compound's signal between predefined sets of borders (bins) in the m/z dimension. This approach, however, can result in mixed signals from different compounds in the same bin or splitting the signal from one compound between two adjacent bins, leading to low quality ion images. To remedy this problem, we propose a novel data processing approach. Our approach consists of a sensitive peak detection method able to discover both faint and localized signals by utilizing clusterwise kernel density estimates (KDEs) of peak distributions. We show that our method can recall more ground-truth molecules, molecule fragments, and isotopes than existing methods based on binning. Furthermore, it automatically detects previously reported molecular ions of lipids, including those close in m/z, in an experimental data set.
PXD011779	31403400	Noroviruses subvert the core stress granule component G3BP1 to promote viral VPg-dependent translation. 	AP-MS analysis of FLAG-tagged Murine norovirus (NS1/2 and NS4)	FLAG, MNV, NS1/2, NS4, norovirus	Knowledge of the host factors required for norovirus replication has been hindered by the challenges associated with culturing human noroviruses. We have combined proteomic analysis of the viral translation and replication complexes with a CRISPR screen, to identify host factors required for norovirus infection. The core stress granule component G3BP1 was identified as a host factor essential for efficient human and murine norovirus infection, demonstrating a conserved function across the Norovirus genus. Furthermore, we show that G3BP1 functions in the novel paradigm of viral VPg-dependent translation initiation, contributing to the assembly of translation complexes on the VPg-linked viral positive sense RNA genome by facilitating ribosome recruitment. Our data uncovers a novel function for G3BP1 in the life cycle of positive sense RNA viruses and identifies the first host factor with pan-norovirus pro-viral activity.
PXD016321	31403401	Defined neuronal populations drive fatal phenotype in a mouse model of Leigh syndrome. 	Mitochondrial Proteome of Affected Neurons in a Mouse Model of Leigh Syndrome	Leigh Syndrome, animal models, cell type-specific, mitochondrial isolation, neuroscience	Mitochondrial deficits in energy production cause untreatable and fatal pathologies known as mitochondrial disease (MD). Central nervous system affectation is critical in Leigh Syndrome (LS), a common MD presentation, leading to motor and respiratory deficits, seizures and premature death. However, only specific neuronal populations are affected. Furthermore, their molecular identity and their contribution to the disease remains unknown. Here, using a mouse model of LS lacking the mitochondrial complex I subunit Ndufs4, we dissect the critical role of genetically-defined neuronal populations in LS progression. Ndufs4 inactivation in Vglut2-expressing glutamatergic neurons leads to decreased neuronal firing, brainstem inflammation, motor and respiratory deficits, and early death. In contrast, Ndufs4 deletion in GABAergic neurons causes basal ganglia inflammation without motor or respiratory involvement, but accompanied by hypothermia and severe epileptic seizures preceding death. These results provide novel insight in the cell type-specific contribution to the pathology, dissecting the underlying cellular mechanisms of MD.
PXD008184	31404090	Secretome profiling of PC3/nKR cells, a novel highly migrating prostate cancer subline derived from PC3 cells. 	PCa_Secretome_PC3vsPC3nKR -  Secretome profiling of PC3/nKR cells, a novel highly migrating prostate cancer subline derived from PC3 cells	PC-3, PC-3/nKR, Prostate cancer, TMT labeling	Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common cancer among men worldwide. Most PCa cases are not fatal; however, the outlook is poor when PCa spreads to another organ. Bone is the target organ in about 80% of patients who experience metastasis from a primary PCa tumor. In the present study, we characterized the secretome of PC3/nKR cells, which are a new subline of PC3 cells that were originally isolated from nude mice that were implanted with PC3 cells without anti-natural killer (NK) cell treatment. Wound healing and Transwell assays revealed that PC3/nKR cells had increased migratory and invasive activities in addition to a higher resistance to NK cells-induced cytotoxicity as compared to PC3 cells. We quantitatively profiled the secreted proteins of PC3/nKR and PC3 cells by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis coupled with 2-plex tandem mass tag labeling. In total, 598 secretory proteins were identified, and 561 proteins were quantified, among which 45 proteins were secreted more and 40 proteins were secreted less by PC3/nKR cells than by PC3 cells. For validation, the adapter molecule crk, serpin B3, and cystatin-M were analyzed by western blotting. PC3/nKR cells showed the selective secretion of NKG2D ligand 2, HLA-A, and IL-6, which may contribute to their NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity resistance, and had a high secretion of crk protein, which may contribute to their high migration and invasion properties. Based on our secretome analysis, we propose that PC3/nKR cells represent a new cell system for studying the metastasis and progression of PCa.
PXD014364	31405188	Differential Proteomics Based on TMT and PRM Reveal the Resistance Response of Bambusa pervariabilis x Dendrocalamopisis grandis Induced by AP-Toxin. 	Quantitative Analysis of PRM Markers in Hybrid Bamboo	parallel reaction monitoring	Bambusa pervariabilis McClure x Dendrocalamopsis grandis (Q.H.Dai & X.l.Tao ex Keng f.) Ohrnb. blight is a widespread and dangerous forest fungus disease, and has been listed as a supplementary object of forest phytosanitary measures. In order to study the control of B. pervariabilis x D. grandis blight, this experiment was carried out. In this work, a toxin purified from the pathogen Arthrinium phaeospermum (Corda) Elli, which causes blight in B. pervariabilis x D. grandis, with homologous heterogeneity, was used as an inducer to increase resistance to B. pervariabilis x D. grandis. A functional analysis of the differentially expressed proteins after induction using a tandem mass tag labeling technique was combined with mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry in order to effectively screen for the proteins related to the resistance of B. pervariabilis x D. grandis to blight. After peptide labeling, a total of 3320 unique peptides and 1791 quantitative proteins were obtained by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry analysis. Annotation and enrichment analysis of these peptides and proteins using the Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases with bioinformatics software show that the differentially expressed protein functional annotation items are mainly concentrated on biological processes and cell components. Several pathways that are prominent in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes annotation and enrichment include metabolic pathways, the citrate cycle, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. In the Protein-protein interaction networks four differentially expressed proteins-sucrose synthase, adenosine triphosphate-citrate synthase beta chain protein 1, peroxidase, and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase significantly interact with multiple proteins and significantly enrich metabolic pathways. To verify the results of tandem mass tag, the candidate proteins were further verified by parallel reaction monitoring, and the results were consistent with the tandem mass tag data analysis results. It is confirmed that the data obtained by tandem mass tag technology are reliable. Therefore, the differentially expressed proteins and signaling pathways discovered here is the primary concern for subsequent disease resistance studies.
PXD015883	31405957	Proximity Labeling To Map Host-Pathogen Interactions at the Membrane of a Bacterium-Containing Vacuole in Chlamydia trachomatis-Infected Human Cells. 	Proximity Labeling to Map Host-Pathogen Interactions at the Membrane of a Bacteria Containing Vacuole in Chlamydia trachomatis Infected Human Cells	APEX2, Chlamydia, Inclusion, proximity labeling	Many intracellular bacteria, including the obligate intracellular pathogen Chlamydia trachomatis, grow within a membrane-bound bacterium-containing vacuole (BCV). Secreted cytosolic effectors modulate host activity, but an understanding of the host-pathogen interactions that occur at the BCV membrane is limited by the difficulty in purifying membrane fractions from infected host cells. We used the ascorbate peroxidase (APEX2) proximity labeling system, which labels proximal proteins with biotin in vivo, to study the protein-protein interactions that occur at the chlamydial vacuolar, or inclusion, membrane. An in vivo understanding of the secreted chlamydial inclusion membrane protein (Inc) interactions (e.g., Inc-Inc and Inc-eukaryotic protein) and how these contribute to overall host-chlamydia interactions at this unique membrane is lacking. We hypothesize some Incs organize the inclusion membrane, whereas other Incs bind eukaryotic proteins to promote chlamydia-host interactions. To study this, Incs fused to APEX2 were expressed in C. trachomatis L2. Affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) identified biotinylated proteins, which were analyzed for statistical significance using significance analysis of the interactome (SAINT). Broadly supporting both Inc-Inc and Inc-host interactions, our Inc-APEX2 constructs labeled Incs as well as known and previously unreported eukaryotic proteins localizing to the inclusion. We demonstrate, using bacterial two-hybrid and coimmunoprecipitation assays, that endogenous LRRFIP1 (LRRF1) is recruited to the inclusion by the Inc CT226. We further demonstrate interactions between CT226 and the Incs used in our study to reveal a model for inclusion membrane organization. Combined, our data highlight the utility of APEX2 to capture the complex in vivo protein-protein interactions at the chlamydial inclusion.
PXD013216	31406020	A ubiquitin-like domain controls protein kinase D dimerization and activation by trans-autophosphorylation. 	Analysis of PKD1 autophosphorylation in vitro and confirmation of stoichiometric S742 phosphorylation of a recombinant PRKD1 kinase domain	PKD1, protein kinase D	Protein kinase D (PKD) is an essential Ser/Thr kinase in animals and controls a variety of diverse cellular functions, including vesicle trafficking and mitogenesis. PKD is activated by recruitment to membranes containing the lipid second messenger diacylglycerol (DAG) and subsequent phosphorylation of its activation loop. Here, we report the crystal structure of the PKD N terminus at 2.2 Aa resolution containing a previously unannotated ubiquitin-like domain (ULD), which serves as a dimerization domain. A single point mutation in the dimerization interface of the ULD not only abrogated dimerization in cells but also prevented PKD activation loop phosphorylation upon DAG production. We further show that the kinase domain of PKD dimerizes in a concentration-dependent manner and autophosphorylates on a single residue in its activation loop. We also provide evidence that PKD is expressed at concentrations 2 orders of magnitude below the ULD dissociation constant in mammalian cells. We therefore propose a new model for PKD activation in which the production of DAG leads to the local accumulation of PKD at the membrane, which drives ULD-mediated dimerization and subsequent trans-autophosphorylation of the kinase domain.
PXD013024	31406256	Proteomics identifies neddylation as a potential therapy target in small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors. 	HiRIEF-LC-MS based proteomics on Small Intestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors (SI-NET) and SI-NET cell lines	Bortezomib, Cell line, Neuro endocrine Tumor, Pevonedistat	Patients with small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors (SI-NETs) frequently develop spread disease; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms of disease progression are not known and effective preventive treatment strategies are lacking. Here, protein expression profiling was performed by HiRIEF-LC-MS in 14 primary SI-NETs from patients with and without liver metastases detected at the time of surgery and initial treatment. Among differentially expressed proteins, overexpression of the ubiquitin-like protein NEDD8 was identified in samples from patients with liver metastasis. Further, NEDD8 correlation analysis indicated co-expression with RBX1, a key component in cullin-RING ubiquitin ligases (CRLs). In vitro inhibition of neddylation with the therapeutic agent pevonedistat (MLN4924) resulted in a dramatic decrease of proliferation in SI-NET cell lines. Subsequent mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis of pevonedistat effects and effects of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib revealed stabilization of multiple targets of CRLs including p27, an established tumor suppressor in SI-NET. Silencing of NEDD8 and RBX1 using siRNA resulted in a stabilization of p27, suggesting that the cellular levels of NEDD8 and RBX1 affect CRL activity. Inhibition of CRL activity, by either NEDD8/RBX1 silencing or pevonedistat treatment of cells resulted in induction of apoptosis that could be partially rescued by siRNA-based silencing of p27. Differential expression of both p27 and NEDD8 was confirmed in a second cohort of SI-NET using immunohistochemistry. Collectively, these findings suggest a role for CRLs and the ubiquitin proteasome system in suppression of p27 in SI-NET, and inhibition of neddylation as a putative therapeutic strategy in SI-NET.
PXD012007	31408619	Therapeutic Targeting of RNA Splicing Catalysis through Inhibition of Protein Arginine Methylation. 	Therapeutic targeting of RNA splicing catalysis through inhibition of protein arginine methylation	Leukemia, Methylation, PRMT1, PRMT5	Cancer-associated mutations in genes encoding RNA splicing factors (SFs) commonly occur in leukemias, as well as in a variety of solid tumors, and confer dependence on wild-type splicing. These observations have led to clinical efforts to directly inhibit the spliceosome in patients with refractory leukemias. Here, we identify that inhibiting symmetric or asymmetric dimethylation of arginine, mediated by PRMT5 and type I protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs), respectively, reduces splicing fidelity and results in preferential killing of SF-mutant leukemias over wild-type counterparts. These data identify genetic subsets of cancer most likely to respond to PRMT inhibition, synergistic effects of combined PRMT5 and type I PRMT inhibition, and a mechanistic basis for the therapeutic efficacy of PRMT inhibition in cancer.
PXD007100	31410901	Phosphoproteomic analysis reveals plant DNA damage signalling pathways with a functional role for histone H2AX phosphorylation in plant growth under genotoxic stress. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of the X-ray induced DNA damage response in dividing cells from wild type and atm mutants using LC-MSMS	ATM, DNA damage response	DNA damage responses are crucial for plant growth under genotoxic stress. Accumulating evidence indicates that DNA damage responses differ between plant cell types. Here, quantitative shotgun phosphoproteomics provided high-throughput analysis of the DNA damage response network in callus cells. MS analysis revealed a wide network of highly dynamic changes in the phosphoprotein profile of genotoxin-treated cells, largely mediated by the ATAXIA TELANGIECTASIA MUTATED (ATM) protein kinase, representing candidate factors that modulate plant growth, development and DNA repair. A C-terminal dual serine target motif unique to H2AX in the plant lineage showed 171-fold phosphorylation that was absent in atm mutant lines. The physiological significance of post-translational DNA damage signalling to plant growth and survival was demonstrated using reverse genetics and complementation studies of h2ax mutants, establishing the functional role of ATM-mediated histone modification in plant growth under genotoxic stress. Our findings demonstrate the complexity and functional significance of post-translational DNA damage signalling responses in plants and establish the requirement of H2AX phosphorylation for plant survival under genotoxic stress.
PXD012254	31411736	Molecular characterization of colorectal adenomas reveals POFUT1 as a candidate driver of tumor progression. 	Molecular characterization of colorectal adenomas reveals POFUT1 as a candidate driver of tumor progression	POFUT1, adenoma-to-carcinoma progression, chromosomal instability, colorectal adenoma	Removal of colorectal adenomas is an effective strategy to reduce colorectal cancer (CRC) mortality rates. However, as only a minority of adenomas progress to cancer, such strategies may lead to overtreatment. The present study aimed to characterize adenomas by in-depth molecular profiling, to obtain insights into altered biology associated with the colorectal adenoma-to-carcinoma progression. We obtained low-coverage whole genome sequencing, RNA sequencing and tandem mass spectrometry data for 30 CRCs, 30 adenomas and 18 normal adjacent colon samples. These data were used for DNA copy number aberrations profiling, differential expression, gene set enrichment and gene-dosage effect analysis. Protein expression was independently validated by immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays and in patient-derived colorectal adenoma organoids. Stroma percentage was determined by digital image analysis of tissue sections. Twenty-four out of 30 adenomas could be unambiguously classified as high risk (n = 9) or low risk (n = 15) of progressing to cancer, based on DNA copy number profiles. Biological processes more prevalent in high-risk than low-risk adenomas were related to proliferation, tumor microenvironment and Notch, Wnt, PI3K/AKT/mTOR and Hedgehog signaling, while metabolic processes and protein secretion were enriched in low-risk adenomas. DNA copy number driven gene-dosage effect in high-risk adenomas and cancers was observed for POFUT1, RPRD1B and EIF6. Increased POFUT1 expression in high-risk adenomas was validated in tissue samples and organoids. High POFUT1 expression was also associated with Notch signaling enrichment and with decreased goblet cells differentiation. In-depth molecular characterization of colorectal adenomas revealed POFUT1 and Notch signaling as potential drivers of tumor progression.
PXD013833	31412312	Redox modifications of cysteine-containing proteins, cell cycle arrest and translation inhibition: Involvement in vitamin C-induced breast cancer cell death. 	Vitamin C-induced breast cancer cell death is associated with remodeling the redox state of cysteine-containing proteins involved in translation and cell cycle progression	Vitamin C, ascorbic acid, breast cancer, dehydroascorbic acid, oxidative stress, redoxome	Vitamin C (VitC) possesses pro-oxidant properties at high pharmacologic concentrations which favor repurposing VitC as an anti-cancer therapeutic agent. However, redox-based anticancer properties of VitC are yet partially understood. We examined the difference between the reduced and oxidized forms of VitC, ascorbic acid (AA) and dehydroascorbic acid (DHA), in terms of cytotoxicity and redox mechanisms toward breast cancer cells. Our data showed that AA displayed higher cytotoxicity towards triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cell lines in vitro than DHA. AA exhibited a similar cytotoxicity on non-TNBC cells, while only a minor detrimental effect on noncancerous cells. Using MDA-MB-231, a representative TNBC cell line, we observed that AA- and DHA-induced cytotoxicity were linked to cellular redox-state alterations. Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) accumulation in the extracellular medium and in different intracellular compartments, and to a lesser degree, intracellular glutathione oxidation, played a key role in AA-induced cytotoxicity. In contrast, DHA affected glutathione oxidation and had less cytotoxicity. A "redoxome" approach revealed that AA treatment altered the redox state of key antioxidants and a number of cysteine-containing proteins including many nucleic acid binding proteins and proteins involved in RNA and DNA metabolisms and in energetic processes. We showed that cell cycle arrest and translation inhibition were associated with AA-induced cytotoxicity. Finally, bioinformatics analysis and biological experiments identified that peroxiredoxin 1 (PRDX1) expression levels correlated with AA differential cytotoxicity in breast cancer cells, suggesting a potential predictive value of PRDX1. This study provides insight into the redox-based mechanisms of VitC anticancer activity, indicating that pharmacologic doses of VitC and VitC-based rational drug combinations could be novel therapeutic opportunities for triple-negative breast cancer.
PXD007193	31413318	Bortezomib administered prior to temozolomide depletes MGMT, chemosensitizes glioblastoma with unmethylated MGMT promoter and prolongs animal survival. 	Plasma Mouse LC-MSMS -  Bortezomib administered prior to temozolomide depletes MGMT, chemosensitizes glioblastoma with unmethylated MGMT promoter and prolongs animal survival	Autophagy, Glioblastoma, Plasma	BACKGROUND: Resistance to temozolomide (TMZ) is due in part to enhanced DNA repair mediated by high expression of O(6)-methyl guanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) that is often characterised by unmethylated promoter. Here, we investigated pre-treatment of glioblastoma (GBM) cells with the 26S-proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (BTZ) as a strategy to interfere with MGMT expression and thus sensitise them to TMZ. METHODS: Cell lines and patient GBM-derived cells were examined in vitro, and the latter also implanted orthotopically into NOD-SCID C.B.-Igh-1b/lcrTac-Prkdc mice to assess efficacy and tolerability of BTZ and TMZ combination therapy. MGMT promoter methylation was determined using pyrosequencing and PCR, protein signalling utilised western blotting while drug biodistribution was examined by LC-MS/MS. Statistical analysis utilised Analysis of variance and the Kaplan-Meier method. RESULTS: Pre-treatment with BTZ prior to temozolomide killed chemoresistant GBM cells with unmethylated MGMT promoter through MGMT mRNA and protein depletion in vitro without affecting methylation. Chymotryptic activity was abolished, processing of NFkB/p65 to activated forms was reduced and corresponded with low MGMT levels. BTZ crossed the blood-brain barrier, diminished proteasome activity and significantly prolonged animal survival. CONCLUSION: BTZ chemosensitized resistant GBM cells, and the schedule may be amenable for temozolomide refractory patients with unmethylated MGMT promoter.
PXD013941	31413787	CYRI/ Fam49 Proteins Represent a New Class of Rac1 Interactors. 	Interacting partners of Rac1 (P29S/Q61L) compared to constitutively active Rac1 (Q61L)	COS7 cells, GFP trap pulldown, RAC1	Fam49 proteins, now referred to as CYRI (CYFIP-related Rac Interactor), are evolutionarily conserved across many phyla. Their closest relative by amino acid sequence is CYFIP, as both proteins contain a domain of unknown function DUF1394. We recently showed that CYRI and the DUF1394 can mediate binding to Rac1 and evidence is building to suggest that CYRI plays important roles in cell migration, chemotaxis and pathogen entry into cells. Here we discuss how CYRI proteins fit into the current framework of the control of actin dynamics by positive and negative feedback loops containing Rac1, the Scar/WAVE Complex, the Arp2/3 Complex and branched actin. We also provide data regarding the interaction between Rac1 and CYRI in an unbiassed mass spectrometry screen for interactors of an active mutant of Rac1.
PXD011658	31414205	Proteomics and post-secretory content adjustment of Nicotiana tabacum nectar. 	Proteomics and gene expression analysis of Nicotiana tabacum nectar proteins	Floral nectar, Gene expression pattern, Glycoprotein, Nectarin, Nicotiana tabacum	MAIN CONCLUSION: The tobacco nectar proteome mainly consists of pathogenesis-related proteins with two glycoproteins. Expression of nectarins was non-synchronous, and not nectary specific. After secretion, tobacco nectar changed from sucrose rich to hexose rich. Floral nectar proteins (nectarins) play important roles in inhibiting microbial growth in nectar, and probably also tailoring nectar chemistry before or after secretion; however, very few plant species have had their nectar proteomes thoroughly investigated. Nectarins from Nicotiana tabacum (NT) were separated using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and then analysed using mass spectrometry. Seven nectarins were identified: acidic endochitinase, beta-xylosidase, alpha-galactosidase, alpha-amylase, G-type lectin S-receptor-like serine/threonine-protein kinase, pathogenesis-related protein 5, and early nodulin-like protein 2. An eighth nectarin, a glycoprotein with unknown function, was identified following isolation from NT nectar using a Qproteome total glycoprotein kit, separation by SDS-PAGE, and identification by mass spectrometry. Expression of all identified nectarins, plus four invertase genes, was analysed by qRT PCR; none of these genes had nectary-specific expression, and none had synchronous expression. The total content of sucrose, hexoses, proteins, phenolics, and hydrogen peroxide were determined at different time intervals in secreted nectar, both within the nectar tube (in vivo) and following extraction from it during incubation at 30 degreesC for up to 40 h in plastic tubes (in vitro). After secretion, the ratio of hexose to sucrose substantially increased for in vivo nectar, but no sugar composition changes were detected in vitro. This implies that sucrose hydrolysis in vivo might be done by fixed apoplastic invertase. Both protein and hydrogen peroxide levels declined in vitro but not in vivo, implying that some factors other than nectarins act to maintain their levels in the flower, after secretion.
PXD013255	31415606	Evaluation of sodium deoxycholate as solubilization buffer for oil palm proteomics analysis. 	Evaluation of sodium deoxycholate as solubilization buffer	oil palm, sodium deoxycholate	Protein solubility is a critical prerequisite to any proteomics analysis. Combination of urea/thiourea and 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS) have been routinely used to enhance protein solubilization for oil palm proteomics studies in recent years. The goals of these proteomics analysis are essentially to complement the knowledge regarding the regulation networks and mechanisms of the oil palm fatty acid biosynthesis. Through omics integration, the information is able to build a regulatory model to support efforts in improving the economic value and sustainability of palm oil in the global oil and vegetable market. Our study evaluated the utilization of sodium deoxycholate as an alternative solubilization buffer/additive to urea/thiourea and CHAPS. Efficiency of urea/thiourea/CHAPS, urea/CHAPS, urea/sodium deoxycholate and sodium deoxycholate buffers in solubilizing the oil palm (Elaeis guineensis var. Tenera) mesocarp proteins were compared. Based on the protein yields and electrophoretic profile, combination of urea/thiourea/CHAPS were shown to remain a better solubilization buffer and additive, but the differences with sodium deoxycholate buffer was insignificant. A deeper mass spectrometric and statistical analyses on the identified proteins and peptides from all the evaluated solubilization buffers revealed that sodium deoxycholate had increased the number of identified proteins from oil palm mesocarps, enriched their gene ontologies and reduced the number of carbamylated lysine residues by more than 67.0%, compared to urea/thiourea/CHAPS buffer. Although only 62.0% of the total identified proteins were shared between the urea/thiourea/CHAPS and sodium deoxycholate buffers, the importance of the remaining 38.0% proteins depends on the applications. The only observed limitations to the application of sodium deoxycholate in protein solubilization were the interference with protein quantitation and but it could be easily rectified through a 4-fold dilution. All the proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013255. In conclusion, sodium deoxycholate is applicable in the solubilization of proteins extracted from oil palm mesocarps with higher efficiency compared to urea/thiourea/CHAPS buffer. The sodium deoxycholate buffer is more favorable for proteomics analysis due to its proven advantages over urea/thiourea/CHAPS buffer.
PXD014472	31416967	Specialization of the Drosophila nuclear export family protein Nxf3 for piRNA precursor export. 	Specialization of the Drosophila nuclear export family protein, Nxf3, for piRNA precursor export	pirna rna export piwi drosophila transposons	The PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway is a conserved small RNA-based immune system that protects animal germ cell genomes from the harmful effects of transposon mobilization. In Drosophila ovaries, most piRNAs originate from dual-strand clusters, which generate piRNAs from both genomic strands. Dual-strand clusters use noncanonical transcription mechanisms. Although transcribed by RNA polymerase II, cluster transcripts lack splicing signatures and poly(A) tails. mRNA processing is important for general mRNA export mediated by nuclear export factor 1 (Nxf1). Although UAP56, a component of the transcription and export complex, has been implicated in piRNA precursor export, it remains unknown how dual-strand cluster transcripts are specifically targeted for piRNA biogenesis by export from the nucleus to cytoplasmic processing centers. Here we report that dual-strand cluster transcript export requires CG13741/Bootlegger and the Drosophila nuclear export factor family protein Nxf3. Bootlegger is specifically recruited to piRNA clusters and in turn brings Nxf3. We found that Nxf3 specifically binds to piRNA precursors and is essential for their export to piRNA biogenesis sites, a process that is critical for germline transposon silencing. Our data shed light on how dual-strand clusters compensate for a lack of canonical features of mature mRNAs to be specifically exported via Nxf3, ensuring proper piRNA production.
PXD013900	31417398	Exploring the Mitochondrial Degradome by the TAILS Proteomics Approach in a Cellular Model of Parkinson's Disease. 	Exploring the mitochondrial degradome by the TAILS proteomics approach in a cellular model of Parkinsons disease	Parkinsons disease, TAILS, degradomics, mitochondria	Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most frequent neurodegenerative disease worldwide and the availability of early biomarkers and novel biotargets represents an urgent medical need. The main pathogenetic hallmark of PD is the specific loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons, in which mitochondrial dysfunction plays a crucial role. Mitochondrial proteases are central to the maintenance of healthy mitochondria and they have recently emerged as drug targets. However, an exhaustive characterization of these enzymes and their targets is still lacking, due to difficulties in analyzing proteolytic fragments by bottom-up proteomics approaches. Here, we propose the "mitochondrial dimethylation-TAILS" strategy, which combines the isolation of mitochondria with the enrichment of N-terminal peptides to analyze the mitochondrial N-terminome. We applied this method in a cellular model of altered dopamine homeostasis in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, which recapitulates early steps of PD pathogenesis. The main aim was to identify candidate mitochondrial proteases aberrantly activated by dopamine dysregulation and their cleaved targets. The proposed degradomics workflow was able to improve the identification of mitochondrial proteins if compared to classical shotgun analysis. In detail, 40% coverage of the mitochondrial proteome was obtained, the sequences of the transit peptides of two mitochondrial proteins were unveiled, and a consensus cleavage sequence for proteases involved in the processing of mitochondrial proteins was depicted. Mass spectrometry proteomics data have been submitted to ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD013900. Moreover, sixty-one N-terminal peptides whose levels were affected by dopamine treatment were identified. By an in-depth analysis of the proteolytic peptides included in this list, eleven mitochondrial proteins showed altered proteolytic processing. One of these proteins (i.e., the 39S ribosomal protein L49 - MRPL49) was cleaved by the neprilysin protease, already exploited in clinics as a biotarget. We eventually demonstrated a mitochondrial subcellular localization of neprilysin in human cells for the first time. Collectively, these results shed new light on mitochondrial dysfunction linked to dopamine imbalance in PD and opened up the possibility to explore the mitochondrial targets of neprilysin as candidate biomarkers.
PXD011441	31417524	Fecal Metaproteomic Analysis Reveals Unique Changes of the Gut Microbiome Functions After Consumption of Sourdough Carasau Bread. 	Effect of sourdough bread diet supplementation on the rat gut microbiota	Bread, Diet, Fecal, LTQ-Orbitrap Velos, Liver, Microbiota, Rat	Sourdough-leavened bread (SB) is acknowledged for its great variety of valuable effects on consumer's metabolism and health, including a low glycemic index and a reduced content of the possible carcinogen acrylamide. Here, we aimed to investigate how these effects influence the gut microbiota composition and functions. Therefore, we subjected rats to a diet supplemented with SB, baker's yeast leavened bread (BB), or unsupplemented diet (chow), and, after 4 weeks of treatment, their gut microbiota was analyzed using a metaproteogenomic approach. As a result, diet supplementation with SB led to a reduction of specific members of the intestinal microbiota previously associated to low protein diets, namely Alistipes and Mucispirillum, or known as intestinal pathobionts, i.e., Mycoplasma. Concerning functions, asparaginases expressed by Bacteroides were observed as more abundant in SB-fed rats, leading to hypothesize that in their colonic microbiota the enzyme substrate, asparagine, was available in higher amounts than in BB- and chow-fed rats. Another group of protein families, expressed by Clostridium, was detected as more abundant in animal fed SB-supplemented diet. Of these, manganese catalase, small acid-soluble proteins (SASP), Ser/Thr kinase PrkA, and V-ATPase proteolipid subunit have been all reported to take part in Clostridium sporulation, strongly suggesting that the diet supplementation with SB might promote environmental conditions inducing metabolic dormancy of Clostridium spp. within the gut microbiota. In conclusion, our data describe the effects of SB consumption on the intestinal microbiota taxonomy and functions in rats. Moreover, our results suggest that a metaproteogenomic approach can provide evidence of the interplay between metabolites deriving from bread digestion and microbial metabolism.
PXD013683	31417895	A Metabolomics-Inspired Strategy for the Identification of Protein Covalent Modifications. 	Identification of histone adducts with glycidamide	Glycidamide, adductomics, histones	Identification of protein covalent modifications (adducts) is a challenging task mainly due to the lack of data processing approaches for adductomics studies. Despite the huge technological advances in mass spectrometry (MS) instrumentation and bioinformatics tools for proteomics studies, these methodologies have very limited success on the identification of low abundant protein adducts. Herein we report a novel strategy inspired on the metabolomics workflows for the identification of covalently-modified peptides that consists on LC-MS data preprocessing followed by statistical analysis. The usefulness of this strategy was evaluated using experimental LC-MS data of histones isolated from HepG2 and THLE2 cells exposed to the chemical carcinogen glycidamide. LC-MS data was preprocessed using the open-source software MZmine and potential adducts were selected based on the m/z increments corresponding to glycidamide incorporation. Then, statistical analysis was applied to reveal the potential adducts as those ions are differently present in cells exposed and not exposed to glycidamide. The results were compared with the ones obtained upon the standard proteomics methodology, which relies on producing comprehensive MS/MS data by data dependent acquisition and analysis with proteomics data search engines. Our novel strategy was able to differentiate HepG2 and THLE2 and to identify adducts that were not detected by the standard methodology of adductomics. Thus, this metabolomics driven approach in adductomics will not only open new opportunities for the identification of protein epigenetic modifications, but also adducts formed by endogenous and exogenous exposure to chemical agents.
PXD013292	31418899	Interplay between the bacterial protein deacetylase CobB and the second messenger c-di-GMP. 	c-di-GMP affect the protein acetylation through CobB dependent deacetylation	c-di-GMP CobB	As a ubiquitous bacterial secondary messenger, c-di-GMP plays key regulatory roles in processes such as bacterial motility and transcription regulation. CobB is the Sir2 family protein deacetylase that controls energy metabolism, chemotaxis, and DNA supercoiling in many bacteria. Using an Escherichia coli proteome microarray, we found that c-di-GMP strongly binds to CobB. Further, protein deacetylation assays showed that c-di-GMP inhibits the activity of CobB and thereby modulates the biogenesis of acetyl-CoA. Interestingly, we also found that one of the key enzymes directly involved in c-di-GMP production, DgcZ, is a substrate of CobB. Deacetylation of DgcZ by CobB enhances its activity and thus the production of c-di-GMP. Our work establishes a novel negative feedback loop linking c-di-GMP biogenesis and CobB-mediated protein deacetylation.
PXD014271	31419058	Protein Paucimannosylation Is an Enriched N-Glycosylation Signature of Human Cancers. 	Protein paucimannosylation is a novel N-glycosylation signature of human cancers	Cancer / glycomics / glycan / protein paucimannosylation / paucimannosidic glycan	While aberrant protein glycosylation is a recognized characteristic of human cancers, advances in glycoanalytics continue to discover new associations between glycoproteins and tumorigenesis. This glycomics-centric study investigates a possible link between protein paucimannosylation, an under-studied class of human N-glycosylation [Man1-3 GlcNAc2 Fuc0-1 ], and cancer. The paucimannosidic glycans (PMGs) of 34 cancer cell lines and 133 tissue samples spanning 11 cancer types and matching non-cancerous specimens are profiled from 467 published and unpublished PGC-LC-MS/MS N-glycome datasets collected over a decade. PMGs, particularly Man2-3 GlcNAc2 Fuc1 , are prominent features of 29 cancer cell lines, but the PMG level varies dramatically across and within the cancer types (1.0-50.2%). Analyses of paired (tumor/non-tumor) and stage-stratified tissues demonstrate that PMGs are significantly enriched in tumor tissues from several cancer types including liver cancer (p = 0.0033) and colorectal cancer (p = 0.0017) and is elevated as a result of prostate cancer and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia progression (p < 0.05). Surface expression of paucimannosidic epitopes is demonstrated on human glioblastoma cells using immunofluorescence while biosynthetic involvement of N-acetyl-beta-hexosaminidase is indicated by quantitative proteomics. This intriguing association between protein paucimannosylation and human cancers warrants further exploration to detail the biosynthesis, cellular location(s), protein carriers, and functions of paucimannosylation in tumorigenesis and metastasis.
PXD009148	31423582	LAMTOR/Ragulator regulates lipid metabolism in macrophages and foam cell differentiation. 	The endosomal proteome of LAMTOR2-deficient primary macrophages	LAMTOR, Macrophages, Organelle proteomics, Ragulator, foam cells	Late endosomal/lysosomal adaptor and MAPK and mTOR activator (LAMTOR/Ragulator) is a scaffold protein complex that anchors and regulates multiprotein signaling units on late endosomes/lysosomes. To identify LAMTOR-modulated endolysosomal proteins, primary macrophages were derived from bone marrow of conditional knockout mice carrying a specific deletion of LAMTOR2 in the monocyte/macrophage cell lineage. Affymetrix-based transcriptomic analysis and quantitative iTRAQ-based organelle proteomic analysis of endosomes derived from macrophages were performed. Further analyses showed that LAMTOR could be a novel regulator of foam cell differentiation. The lipid droplet formation phenotype observed in macrophages was additionally confirmed in MEFs, where lipidomic analysis identified cholesterol esters as specifically downregulated in LAMTOR2 knockout cells. The data obtained indicate a function of LAMTOR2 in lipid metabolism.
PXD013429	31424164	Management of Tamm-Horsfall Protein for Reliable Urinary Analytics. 	Human urinary extracellular vesicles protein LC-MS/MS	Biomarker, Tamm-Horsfall Protein, Urea, Urinary Extracellular Vesicle	PURPOSE: Urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) are a novel source of biomarkers. However, urinary Tamm-Horsfall Protein (THP; uromodulin) interferes with all vesicle isolation attempts, precipitates with normal urinary proteins, thus, representing an unwanted "contaminant" in urinary assays. Thus, the aim is to develop a simple method to manage THP efficiently. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The uEVs are isolated by hydrostatic filtration dialysis (HFD) and treated with a defined solution of urea to optimize release of uEVs from sample. Presence of uEVs is confirmed by transmission electron microscopy, Western blotting, and proteomic profiling in MS. RESULTS: Using HFD with urea treatment for uEV isolation reduces sample complexity to a great extent. The novel simplified uEV isolation protocol allows comprehensive vesicle proteomics analysis and should be part of any urine analytics to release all sample constituents from THP trap. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The method brings a quick and easy protocol for THP management during uEV isolation, providing major benefits for comprehensive sample analytics.
PXD012764	31424513	Phosphoproteomic Profiling Reveals the Importance of CK2, MAPKs and CDPKs in Response to Phosphate Starvation in Rice. 	Phosphoproteomic profiling responds to phosphate starvation in rice	Oryza sativa Phosphate starvation Phosphoproteomicriceroot	Phosphorus is one of the most important macronutrients required for plant growth and development. The importance of phosphorylation modification in regulating phosphate (Pi) homeostasis in plants is emerging. We performed phosphoproteomic profiling to characterize proteins whose degree of phosphorylation is altered in response to Pi starvation in rice root. A subset of 554 proteins, including 546 down-phosphorylated and eight up-phosphorylated proteins, exhibited differential phosphorylation in response to Pi starvation. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis with the differentially phosphorylated proteins indicated that RNA processing, transport, splicing and translation and carbon metabolism played critical roles in response to Pi starvation in rice. Levels of phosphorylation of four mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including OsMAPK6, five calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) and OsCK2beta3 decreased in response to Pi starvation. The decreased phosphorylation level of OsMAPK6 was confirmed by Western blotting. Mutation of OsMAPK6 led to Pi accumulation under Pi-sufficient conditions. Motif analysis indicated that the putative MAPK, casein kinase 2 (CK2) and CDPK substrates represented about 54.4%, 21.5% and 4.7%, respectively, of the proteins exhibiting differential phosphorylation. Based on the motif analysis, 191, 151 and 46 candidate substrates for MAPK, CK2 and CDPK were identified. These results indicate that modification of phosphorylation profiles provides complementary information on Pi-starvation-induced processes, with CK2, MAPK and CDPK protein kinase families playing key roles in these processes in rice.
PXD014272	31424929	Ariadne's Thread in the Analytical Labyrinth of Membrane Proteins: Integration of Targeted and Shotgun Proteomics for Global Absolute Quantification of Membrane Proteins. 	Ariadne's Thread in the Analytical Labyrinth of Membrane Proteins - Integration of Targeted and Shotgun Proteomics for Global Absolute Quantification of Membrane Proteins	Absolute Quantification, Bacillus subtilis, Membrane proteins, SNAP-tag, Shotgun-MS, Targeted-MS	The field of systems biology has been rapidly developing in the past decade. However, the data produced by "omics" approaches is lagging behind the requirements of this field, especially when it comes to absolute abundances of membrane proteins. In the present study, a novel approach for large-scale absolute quantification of this challenging subset of proteins has been established and evaluated using osmotic stress management in the Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis as proof-of-principle precedent. Selected membrane proteins were labeled using a SNAP-tag, which allowed us to visually inspect the enrichment of the membrane fraction by immunoassays. Absolute membrane protein concentrations were determined via shotgun proteomics by spiking crude membrane extracts of chromosomally SNAP-tagged and wild-type B. subtilis strains with protein standards of known concentration. Shotgun data was subsequently calibrated by targeted mass spectrometry using SNAP as an anchor protein, and an enrichment factor was calculated in order to obtain membrane protein copy numbers per square micrometer. The presented approach enabled the accurate determination of physiological changes resulting from imposed hyperosmotic stress, thereby offering a clear visualization of alterations in membrane protein arrangements and shedding light on putative membrane complexes. This straightforward and cost-effective methodology for quantitative proteome studies can be implemented by any research group with mass spectrometry expertise. Importantly, it can be applied to the full spectrum of physiologically relevant conditions, ranging from environmental stresses to the biotechnological production of small molecules and proteins, a field heavily relying on B. subtilis secretion capabilities.
PXD008585	31424945	Type II Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition Upregulates Protein N-Glycosylation To Maintain Proteostasis and Extracellular Matrix Production. 	Epithelial-mesenchymal transition and extracellular matrix production	Epithelial-mesenchymal transition, N-glycosylation, and hexosamine biosynthesis pathway, extracellular matrix, secretome, unfolded protein response	Type II epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays a vital role in airway injury, repair, and remodeling. Triggered by growth factors, such as transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta), EMT induced a biological process that converts epithelial cells into secretory mesenchymal cells with a substantially increased production of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Epithelial cells are not professional secretory cells and produce few ECM proteins under normal conditions. The molecular mechanism underlying the transformation of the protein factory and secretory machinery during EMT is significant because ECM secretion is central to the pathogenesis of airway remodeling. Here we report that type II EMT upregulates the protein N-glycosylation of ECMs. The mechanism study reveals that the substantial increase in synthesis of ECM proteins in EMT activates the inositol-requiring protein 1 (IRE1alpha)-X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) axis of the unfolded protein response (UPR) coupled to the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway (HBP). These two pathways coordinately up-regulate the protein N-glycosylation of ECM proteins and increase ER folding capacity and ER-associated degradation (ERAD), which improve ER protein homeostasis and protect transitioned cells from proteotoxicity. Inhibition of the alternative splicing of XBP1 or protein N-glycosylation blocks ECM protein secretion, indicating the XBP1-HBP plays a prominent role in regulating the secretion of ECM proteins in the mesenchymal transition. Our data suggest that the activation of XBP1-HBP pathways and elevation of protein N-glycosylation is an adaptive response to maintain protein quality control and facilitate the secretion of ECM proteins during the mesenchymal transition. The components of the XBP1-HBP pathways may be therapeutic targets to prevent airway remodeling.
PXD008434	31425886	Plasma fibrin clot proteomics in healthy subjects: Relation to clot permeability and lysis time. 	Plasma fibrin clot-bound proteins in antiphospholipid syndrome and venous thromboembolism: relation with inflammation and thrombosis	antiphospholipid syndrome, inflammation, thrombosis, venous thromboembolism	BACKGROUND: Little is known about fibrin clot composition in relation to its structure and lysability. We investigated plasma clots protein composition and its associations with clot properties. METHODS: We studied 20 healthy subjects aged 31-49 years in whom plasma fibrin clot permeability (Ks) and clot lysis time (CLT) were determined. A proteomic analysis of plasma fibrin clots was based on quantitative liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Among 494 clot-bound proteins identified in all clots, the highest concentrations were for fibrinogen chains (about 64% of the clot mass) and fibronectin (13%). alpha2-antiplasmin (2.7%), factor XIIIA (1.2%), complement component C3 (1.2%), and histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG, 0.61%) were present at relatively high concentrations. Proteins present in concentrations <0.5% included (pro)thrombin, plasminogen, apolipoproteins, or platelet factor 4 (PF4). Fibrinogen-alpha and -gamma chains were associated with age, while body-mass index with clot-bound apolipoproteins (all p < .05). Ks correlated with fibrinogen-gamma and PF4 amounts within plasma clots. CLT was associated with fibrinogen-alpha and -gamma, PF4, and HRG (all p < .05). CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to show associations of two key measures of clot properties with protein content within plasma clots, suggesting that looser fibrin clots with enhanced lysability contain less fibrinogen-gamma chain, platelet-derived PF4, and HRG. SIGNIFICANCE: Our study for the first time suggests that more permeable fibrin clots with enhanced lysability contain less fibrinogen-gamma chain, platelet-derived factor 4, and histidine-rich glycoprotein, which is related to accelerated clot lysis. The current findings might have functional consequences regarding clot structure, stability, and propagation of thrombin generation, and detailed proteomic analysis of clots in various disorders opens new perspective for coagulation and fibrin research.
PXD014590	31426316	Proteomic Insights into Phycobilisome Degradation, A Selective and Tightly Controlled Process in The Fast-Growing Cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus UTEX 2973. 	Investigation of phycobilisome degradation using top down proteomics in Synechococcus elongatus UTEX 2973	Phycobilisomes, light harvesting complexes, nitrogen starvation, photosynthesis, protein degradation, top down proteomics	Phycobilisomes (PBSs) are large (3-5 megadalton) pigment-protein complexes in cyanobacteria that associate with thylakoid membranes and harvest light primarily for photosystem II. PBSs consist of highly ordered assemblies of pigmented phycobiliproteins (PBPs) and linker proteins that can account for up to half of the soluble protein in cells. Cyanobacteria adjust to changing environmental conditions by modulating PBS size and number. In response to nutrient depletion such as nitrogen (N) deprivation, PBSs are degraded in an extensive, tightly controlled, and reversible process. In Synechococcus elongatus UTEX 2973, a fast-growing cyanobacterium with a doubling time of two hours, the process of PBS degradation is very rapid, with 80% of PBSs per cell degraded in six hours under optimal light and CO2 conditions. Proteomic analysis during PBS degradation and re-synthesis revealed multiple proteoforms of PBPs with partially degraded phycocyanobilin (PCB) pigments. NblA, a small proteolysis adaptor essential for PBS degradation, was characterized and validated with targeted mass spectrometry. NblA levels rose from essentially 0 to 25,000 copies per cell within 30 min of N depletion, and correlated with the rate of decrease in phycocyanin (PC). Implications of this correlation on the overall mechanism of PBS degradation during N deprivation are discussed.
PXD012818	31428774	PPARbeta/delta recruits NCOR and regulates transcription reinitiation of ANGPTL4. 	PPARbeta/delta chip-masspectrometry	PPARbeta, PPARdelta, agonist, cofactor, inverse agonist, nuclear receptor	In the absence of ligands, the nuclear receptor PPARbeta/delta recruits the NCOR and SMRT corepressors, which form complexes with HDAC3, to canonical target genes. Agonistic ligands cause dissociation of corepressors and enable enhanced transcription. Vice versa, synthetic inverse agonists augment corepressor recruitment and repression. Both basal repression of the target gene ANGPTL4 and reinforced repression elicited by inverse agonists are partially insensitive to HDAC inhibition. This raises the question how PPARbeta/delta represses transcription mechanistically. We show that the PPARbeta/delta inverse agonist PT-S264 impairs transcription initiation by decreasing recruitment of activating Mediator subunits, RNA polymerase II, and TFIIB, but not of TFIIA, to the ANGPTL4 promoter. Mass spectrometry identifies NCOR as the main PT-S264-dependent interactor of PPARbeta/delta. Reconstitution of knockout cells with PPARbeta/delta mutants deficient in basal repression results in diminished recruitment of NCOR, SMRT, and HDAC3 to PPAR target genes, while occupancy by RNA polymerase II is increased. PT-S264 restores binding of NCOR, SMRT, and HDAC3 to the mutants, resulting in reduced polymerase II occupancy. Our findings corroborate deacetylase-dependent and -independent repressive functions of HDAC3-containing complexes, which act in parallel to downregulate transcription.
PXD011198	31429292	hSWATH: Unlocking SWATH's Full Potential for an Untargeted Histone Perspective. 	hSWATH: Unlocking SWATH's full potential for an untargeted histone perspective	Data independent acquisition (DIA), Epigenetics, Histone, Mass spectrometry (MS), Post-translational modification (PTM), Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra (SWATH)	Mass spectrometry (MS) has become the technique of choice for large-scale analysis of histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) and their combinatorial patterns, especially in untargeted settings where novel discovery-driven hypotheses are being generated. However, MS-based histone analysis requires a distinct sample preparation, acquisition, and data analysis workflow when compared to traditional MS-based approaches. To this end, sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra (SWATH) has great potential, as it allows for untargeted accurate identification and quantification of hPTMs. Here, we present a complete SWATH workflow specifically adapted for the untargeted study of histones (hSWATH). We assess its validity on a technical dataset of time-lapse deacetylation of a commercial histone extract using HDAC1, which contains a ground truth, i.e., acetylated substrate peptides reduce in intensity. We successfully apply this workflow in a biological setting and subsequently investigate the differential response to HDAC inhibition in different breast cancer cell lines.
PXD009527	31430045	Differential Chloroplast Proteomics of Temperature Adaptation in Apple (Malus x domestica Borkh.) Microshoots. 	Malus x domestica chloroplast LC-MS/MS	Malus x domestica, chloroplast, low temperature	Temperature stress is one of the most common external factors that plants have to adapt to. Accordingly, plants have developed several adaptation mechanisms to deal with temperature stress. Chloroplasts are one of the organelles that are responsible for the sensing of the temperature signal and triggering a response. Here, chloroplasts are purified from low temperature (4degrees C), control (22degrees C) and high temperature (30degrees C) grown Malus x domestica microshoots. The purity of the chloroplast fractions is evaluated by marker proteins, as well as by using in silico subcellular localization predictions. The proteins are digested using filter-aided sample processing and analyzed using nano-LC MS/MS. 733 proteins are observed corresponding to published Malus x domestica gene models and 16 chloroplast genome -encoded proteins in the chloroplast preparates. In ANOVA, 56 proteins are found to be significantly differentially abundant (p < 0.01) between chloroplasts isolated from plants grown in different conditions. The differentially abundant proteins are involved in protein digestion, cytoskeleton structure, cellular redox state and photosynthesis, or have protective functions. Additionally, a putative chloroplastic aquaporin is observed. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014212.
PXD014066	31430117	Evaluation of Chemically-Cleavable Linkers for Quantitative Mapping of Small Molecule-Cysteinome Reactivity. 	Evaluation and Optimization of Chemically-Cleavable Linkers for Quantitative Mapping of Small Molecule-Protein Interactomes	TMT, azobenzene, cleavable biotin linker, dacomitinib, dialkoxydiphenylsilane	Numerous reagents have been developed to enable chemical proteomic analysis of small molecule-protein interactomes. However, the performance of these reagents has not been systematically evaluated and compared. Herein, we report our efforts to conduct a parallel assessment of two widely used chemically cleavable linkers equipped with dialkoxydiphenylsilane (DADPS linker) and azobenzene (AZO linker) moieties. Profiling a cellular cysteinome using the iodoacetamide alkyne probe demonstrated a significant discrepancy between the experimental results obtained through the application of each of the reagents. To better understand the source of observed discrepancy, we evaluated the key sample preparation steps. We also performed a mass tolerant database search strategy using MSFragger software. This resulted in identifying a previously unreported artifactual modification on the residual mass of the azobenzene linker. Furthermore, we conducted a comparative analysis of enrichment modes using both cleavable linkers. This effort determined that enrichment of proteolytic digests yielded a far greater number of identified cysteine residues than the enrichment conducted prior to protein digest. Inspired by recent studies where multiplexed quantitative labeling strategies were applied to cleavable biotin linkers, we combined this further optimized protocol using the DADPS cleavable linker with tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling to profile the FDA-approved covalent EGFR kinase inhibitor dacomitinib against the cysteinome of an epidermoid cancer cell line. Our analysis resulted in the detection and quantification of over 10,000 unique cysteine residues, a nearly 3-fold increase over previous studies that used cleavable biotin linkers for enrichment. Critically, cysteine residues corresponding to proteins directly as well as indirectly modulated by dacomitinib treatment were identified. Overall, our study suggests that the dialkoxydiphenylsilane linker could be broadly applied wherever chemically cleavable linkers are required for chemical proteomic characterization of cellular proteomes.
PXD013468	31430451	Temporal Ordering in Endocytic Clathrin-Coated Vesicle Formation via AP2 Phosphorylation. 	The interactome of the clathrin adaptor AP2 is modulated by the phosphorylation status of its 2 subunit.	AAK1, Endocytosis, Necap, clathrin, receptor	Clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) is key to maintaining the transmembrane protein composition of cells' limiting membranes. During mammalian CME, a reversible phosphorylation event occurs on Thr156 of the mu2 subunit of the main endocytic clathrin adaptor, AP2. We show that this phosphorylation event starts during clathrin-coated pit (CCP) initiation and increases throughout CCP lifetime. mu2Thr156 phosphorylation favors a new, cargo-bound conformation of AP2 and simultaneously creates a binding platform for the endocytic NECAP proteins but without significantly altering AP2's cargo affinity in vitro. We describe the structural bases of both. NECAP arrival at CCPs parallels that of clathrin and increases with mu2Thr156 phosphorylation. In turn, NECAP recruits drivers of late stages of CCP formation, including SNX9, via a site distinct from where NECAP binds AP2. Disruption of the different modules of this phosphorylation-based temporal regulatory system results in CCP maturation being delayed and/or stalled, hence impairing global rates of CME.
PXD010666	31430995	The Dynamics of the Cell Wall Proteome of Developing Alfalfa Stems. 	development of the cell wall in alfalfa	2D-DIGE, cell wall proteins	In this study, the cell-wall-enriched subproteomes at three different heights of alfalfa stems were compared. Since these three heights correspond to different states in stem development, a view on the dynamics of the cell wall proteome during cell maturation is obtained. This study of cell wall protein-enriched fractions forms the basis for a description of the development process of the cell wall and the linking cell wall localized proteins with the evolution of cell wall composition and structure. The sequential extraction of cell wall proteins with CaCl2, EGTA, and LiCl-complemented buffers was combined with a gel-based proteome approach and multivariate analysis. Although the highest similarities were observed between the apical and intermediate stem regions, the proteome patterns are characteristic for each region. Proteins that bind carbohydrates and have proteolytic activity, as well as enzymes involved in glycan remobilization, accumulate in the basal stem region. Beta-amylase and ferritin likewise accumulate more in the basal stem segment. Therefore, remobilization of nutrients appears to be an important process in the oldest stem segment. The intermediate and apical regions are sites of cell wall polymer remodeling, as suggested by the high abundance of proteins involved in the remodeling of the cell wall, such as xyloglucan endoglucosylase, beta-galactosidase, or the BURP-domain containing polygalacturonase non-catalytic subunit. However, the most striking change between the different stem parts is the strong accumulation of a DUF642-conserved domain containing protein in the apical region of the stem, which suggests a particular role of this protein during the early development of stem tissues.
PXD009451	31431535	Divergent allocation of sperm and the seminal proteome along a competition gradient in Drosophila melanogaster. 	Quantitative proteomics identification of seminal fluid proteins in male Drosophila  melanogaster	Drosophila melanogaster, LFQ, Seminal fluid	Sperm competition favors large, costly ejaculates, and theory predicts the evolution of allocation strategies that enable males to plastically tailor ejaculate expenditure to sperm competition threat. While greater sperm transfer in response to a perceived increase in the risk of sperm competition is well-supported, we have a poor understanding of whether males (i) respond to changes in perceived intensity of sperm competition, (ii) use the same allocation rules for sperm and seminal fluid, and (iii) experience changes in current and future reproductive performance as a result of ejaculate compositional changes. Combining quantitative proteomics with fluorescent sperm labeling, we show that Drosophila melanogaster males exercise independent control over the transfer of sperm and seminal fluid proteins (SFPs) under different levels of male-male competition. While sperm transfer peaks at low competition, consistent with some theoretical predictions based on sperm competition intensity, the abundance of transferred SFPs generally increases at high competition levels. However, we find that clusters of SFPs vary in the directionality and sensitivity of their response to competition, promoting compositional change in seminal fluid. By tracking the degree of decline in male mating probability and offspring production across successive matings, we provide evidence that ejaculate compositional change represents an adaptive response to current sperm competition, but one that comes at a cost to future mating performance. Our work reveals a previously unknown divergence in ejaculate component allocation rules, exposes downstream costs of elevated ejaculate investment, and ultimately suggests a central role for ejaculate compositional plasticity in sexual selection.
PXD014418	31432622	Phosphoproteomic Analyses Provide Insight into Molecular Mechanisms Underlying NETosis. 	Phospho-proteomic Analyses Provide Insight into Underlying Molecular Mechanisms of NETosis	NETosis, Neutraphil extracellular traps, phospho-proteomics	NETosis, a novel cell death mechanism which leads to neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation, is involved in both infectious and noninfectious diseases. However, its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. To explore the mechanisms and common factors associated with NADPH oxidase (NOX)-dependent and NOX-independent NETosis, global proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses are conducted in neutrophils treated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), ionomycin, and monosodium urate (MSU). Global proteomic analyses identify 64, 97, and 141 proteins differentially regulated in the PMA, ionomycin, and MSU groups compared with the control group, respectively. Phosphoproteomic analysis identifies 931, 565, and 201 phosphorylation sites differentially regulated in the PMA, ionomycin, and MSU groups, compared with the control, respectively. Overlap analysis of the three comparisons identifies nine proteins and 49 phosphorylation sites derived from 41 phosphoproteins. Among the 41 differentially regulated phosphoproteins, 23 are associated with nuclear function, five with chromatin binding, and 13 with poly(A) RNA binding activities based on GO annotation. Among these, DEK, methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2), and structure-specific recognition protein 1 (SSRP1) are involved in both chromatin and poly(A) RNA binding. In conclusion, this study provides insight into molecular mechanisms of NETosis and a useful dataset for the guidance of future studies.
PXD013642	31432679	Proteomic Analysis of Rhizobium favelukesii LPU83 in Response to Acid Stress. 	Proteomic analysis of Rhizobium favelukesii LPU83 in response to acid stress.	Acid-stress rhizobia proteomics	Acid soils constitute a severe problem for leguminous crops mainly through a disturbance in rhizobium-legume interactions. Rhizobium favelukesii-an acid-tolerant rhizobium able to nodulate alfalfa-is highly competitive for nodule occupation under acid conditions but inefficient for biologic nitrogen fixation. In this work, we obtained a general description of the acid-stress response of R. favelukesii LPU83 by means of proteomics by comparing the total proteome profiles in the presence or absence of acid stress by nanoflow ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. Thus, a total of 336 proteins were identified with a significant differential expression, 136 of which species were significantly overexpressed and 200 underexpressed in acidity. An in silico functional characterization with those respective proteins revealed a complex and pleiotropic response by these rhizobia involving components of oxidative phosphorylation, glutamate metabolism, and peptidoglycan biosynthesis, among other pathways. Furthermore, a lower permeability was evidenced in the acid-stressed cells along with several overexpressed proteins related to gamma-aminobutyric acid metabolism, such as the gene product of livK, which gene was mutated. This mutant exhibited an acid-sensitive phenotype in agreement with the proteomics results. We conclude that both the gamma-aminobutyric acid metabolism and a modified cellular envelope could be relevant to acid tolerance in R. favelukesii.
PXD012188	31433507	Strong anion exchange-mediated phosphoproteomics reveals extensive human non-canonical phosphorylation. 	The Expanding Landscape of Human Protein Phosphorylation C4PR_LIV	non-canonical phosphorylation, phosphoaspartate, phosphoproteomics, strong anion exchange	Phosphorylation is a key regulator of protein function under (patho)physiological conditions, and defining site-specific phosphorylation is essential to understand basic and disease biology. In vertebrates, the investigative focus has primarily been on serine, threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation, but mounting evidence suggests that phosphorylation of other "non-canonical" amino acids also regulates critical aspects of cell biology. However, standard methods of phosphoprotein characterisation are largely unsuitable for the analysis of non-canonical phosphorylation due to their relative instability under acidic conditions and/or elevated temperature. Consequently, the complete landscape of phosphorylation remains unexplored. Here, we report an unbiased phosphopeptide enrichment strategy based on strong anion exchange (SAX) chromatography (UPAX), which permits identification of histidine (His), arginine (Arg), lysine (Lys), aspartate (Asp), glutamate (Glu) and cysteine (Cys) phosphorylation sites on human proteins by mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics. Remarkably, under basal conditions, and having accounted for false site localisation probabilities, the number of unique non-canonical phosphosites is approximately one-third of the number of observed canonical phosphosites. Our resource reveals the previously unappreciated diversity of protein phosphorylation in human cells, and opens up avenues for high-throughput exploration of non-canonical phosphorylation in all organisms.
PXD013767	31434009	Proteomic and structural characterization of self-assembled vesicles from excretion/secretion products of Toxoplasma gondii. 	Mass spectrometry of excretory/secretory products (ectosomes, exosomes, and soluble proteins) secreted by Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites isolated from an infected murine model.	Ectosomes, Excretory/secretory products, Exosomes, Quantification, Toxoplasma gondii.	After the cell invasion, the parasite Toxoplasma gondii locates within a parasitophorous vacuole to proliferate. It continuously modifies the composition of the parasitophorous vacuole by the secretion of GRA and ROP proteins, some of which become inserted into the vacuole membrane, remain as soluble proteins or involved in the intravacuolar network. In this report, we analyze the excretion/secretion products and the vesicles released by extracellular tachyzoites, this structures were morphologically analyzed by electron microscopy and characterized by mass spectrometry. The structural analysis showed parasites secreting in vitro individual vesicles with similarities to ectosomes and exosomes and which characterized to self-assembly in vitro forming vesicle-tubular structures morphologically similar to the intravacuolar network from infected cells. The vesicle-tubular structures were recognized with antibodies against ROP2 and GRA2. In addition, analysis by Western blot evidenced proteins from the secretory organelles. A detailed proteomic analysis of exosomes, ectosomes and soluble proteins released in vitro is here reported. Presence of GRA proteins in secretions from resting extracellular parasites indicates that these molecules are not exclusively secreted within the parasitophorous vacuole of the infected cell as reported but they are constitutively excreted/secreted even in an extracellular condition. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013767. SIGNIFICANCE: Extracellular tachyzoites constitutively secrete components that previously were considered be secreted only within the parasitophorous vacuole, suggesting that in the infected host these molecules are in direct interaction with cells and molecules of the host cell including those of the immune response.
PXD015008	31434700	MELK mediates the stability of EZH2 through site-specific phosphorylation in extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma. 	MELK mediates the stability of EZH2 throught site-specific phosphorylation in extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma	EZH2, MELK, SILAC, extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL), phosphorylation, ubiquitination	Oncogenic EZH2 is overexpressed and extensively involved in the pathophysiology of different cancers including extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL). However, the mechanisms regarding EZH2 upregulation is poorly understood, and it still remains untargetable in NKTL. In this study, we examine EZH2 protein turnover in NKTL and identify MELK kinase as a regulator of EZH2 ubiquitination and turnover. Using quantitative mass spectrometry analysis, we observed a MELK-mediated increase of EZH2 S220 phosphorylation along with a concomitant loss of EZH2 K222 ubiquitination, suggesting a phosphorylation-dependent regulation of EZH2 ubiquitination. MELK inhibition through both chemical and genetic means led to ubiquitination and destabilization of EZH2 protein. Importantly, we determine that MELK is upregulated in NKTL, and its expression correlates with EZH2 protein expression as determined by tissue microarray derived from NKTL patients. FOXM1, which connected MELK to EZH2 signaling in glioma, was not involved in mediating EZH2 ubiquitination. Furthermore, we identify USP36 as the deubiquitinating enzyme that deubiquitinates EZH2 at K222. These findings uncover an important role of MELK and USP36 in mediating EZH2 stability in NKTL. Moreover, MELK overexpression led to decreased sensitivity to bortezomib treatment in NKTL based on deprivation of EZH2 ubiquitination. Therefore, modulation of EZH2 ubiquitination status by targeting MELK may be a new therapeutic strategy for NKTL patients with poor bortezomib response.
PXD013387	31434710	Multidimensional Proteomics Identifies Declines in Protein Homeostasis and Mitochondria as Early Signals for Normal Aging and Age-associated Disease in Drosophila. 	Proteomics study of protein translation in aging Drosophila	Drosophila, aging, protein translation	Aging is characterized by a gradual deterioration in proteome. However, how protein dynamics that changes with normal aging and in disease is less well understood. Here, we profiled the snapshots of aging proteome in Drosophila, from head and muscle tissues of post-mitotic somatic cells, and the testis of mitotically-active cells. Our data demonstrated that dysregulation of proteome homeostasis, or proteostasis, might be a common feature associated with age. We further used pulsed metabolic stable isotope labeling analysis to characterize protein synthesis. Interestingly, this study determined an age-modulated decline in protein synthesis with age, particularly in the pathways related to mitochondria, neurotransmission, and proteostasis. Importantly, this decline became dramatically accelerated in Pink1 mutants, a Drosophila model of human age-related Parkinson's disease. Taken together, our multidimensional proteomic study revealed tissue-specific protein dynamics with age, highlighting mitochondrial and proteostasis-related proteins. We suggest that declines in proteostasis and mitochondria early in life are critical signals prior to the onset of aging and aging-associated diseases.
PXD013144	31434876	Structural basis for lamin assembly at the molecular level. 	Structural basis for assembly of lamin at the molecular level	Nuclear lamin protein, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, X-ray crystallography, chemical crosslinking, filament assembly structure, gel-based LC-MSMS	Nuclear structure and function are governed by lamins, which are intermediate filaments that mostly consist of alpha-helices. Different lamin assembly models have been proposed based on low resolution and fragmented structures. However, their assembly mechanisms are still poorly understood at the molecular level. Here, we present the crystal structure of a long human lamin fragment at 3.2 Aa resolution that allows the visualization of the features of the full-length protein. The structure shows an anti-parallel arrangement of the two coiled-coil dimers, which is important for the assembly process. We further discover an interaction between the lamin dimers by using chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry analysis. Based on these two interactions, we propose a molecular mechanism for lamin assembly that is in agreement with a recent model representing the native state and could explain pathological mutations. Our findings also provide the molecular basis for assembly mechanisms of other intermediate filaments.
PXD014636	31434902	GIGANTEA recruits the UBP12 and UBP13 deubiquitylases to regulate accumulation of the ZTL photoreceptor complex. 	GIGANTEA recruits deubiquitylases, UBP12 and UBP13, to regulate accumulation of the ZTL photoreceptor complex	Circadian Clock, Deubiquitylases, GIGANTEA, UBP, ZEITLUPE	ZEITLUPE (ZTL), a photoreceptor with E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, communicates end-of-day light conditions to the plant circadian clock. It still remains unclear how ZTL protein accumulates in the light but does not destabilize target proteins before dusk. Two deubiquitylating enzymes, UBIQUITIN-SPECIFIC PROTEASE 12 and 13 (UBP12 and UBP13), which regulate clock period and protein ubiquitylation in a manner opposite to ZTL, associate with the ZTL protein complex. Here we demonstrate that the ZTL interacting partner, GIGANTEA (GI), recruits UBP12 and UBP13 to the ZTL photoreceptor complex. We show that loss of UBP12 and UBP13 reduces ZTL and GI protein levels through a post-transcriptional mechanism. Furthermore, a ZTL target protein is unable to accumulate to normal levels in ubp mutants. This demonstrates that the ZTL photoreceptor complex contains both ubiquitin-conjugating and -deconjugating enzymes, and that these two opposing enzyme types are necessary for circadian clock pacing. This shows that deubiquitylating enzymes are a core element of circadian clocks, conserved from plants to animals.
PXD014182	31436101	Automated "Cells-To-Peptides" Sample Preparation Workflow for High-Throughput, Quantitative Proteomic Assays of Microbes. 	An automated cells-to-peptides' sample preparation workflow for high-throughput, quantitative proteomic assays of microbes	Automation, Bacteria, Biotechnology, Fungi, High-throughput, Microbes, Sample preparation	Mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic analysis has proven valuable for clinical and biotechnology-related research and development. Improvements in sensitivity, resolution, and robustness of mass analyzers have also added value. However, manual sample preparation protocols are often a bottleneck for sample throughput and can lead to poor reproducibility, especially for applications where thousands of samples per month must be analyzed. To alleviate these issues, we developed a "cells-to-peptides" automated workflow for Gram-negative bacteria and fungi that includes cell lysis, protein precipitation, resuspension, quantification, normalization, and tryptic digestion. The workflow takes 2 h to process 96 samples from cell pellets to the initiation of the tryptic digestion step and can process 384 samples in parallel. We measured the efficiency of protein extraction from various amounts of cell biomass and optimized the process for standard liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry systems. The automated workflow was tested by preparing 96 Escherichia coli samples and quantifying over 600 peptides that resulted in a median coefficient of variation of 15.8%. Similar technical variance was observed for three other organisms as measured by highly multiplexed LC-MRM-MS acquisition methods. These results show that this automated sample preparation workflow provides robust, reproducible proteomic samples for high-throughput applications.
PXD013514	31437817	Proteomic analysis of uterine fluid of fertile and subfertile hens before and after insemination. 	Uterine fluid proteomic analysis of fertile and subfertile hens before and after insemination	Uterin fluid, insemination, sperm storage	Avian uterine fluid (UF) and uterovaginal sperm storage tubules (SST) are key components in accepting sperm in SST, maintaining sperm function for several weeks, releasing sperm from SST and their ascent through the uterus. To improve the understanding of sperm storage processes requires investigating UF and SST. This study aimed to identify proteins modulated by sperm in the hen's genital tract and to highlight their role during sperm storage. Two genetic lines of hens exhibiting long (F+) or short (F-) sperm storage ability were used. GeLC MS/MS analysis was used to establish a quantitative inventory of proteins regulated after insemination in both lines. The proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013514. Immunohistochemistry was used to identify high (ANXA4/ANXA5/OCX32) and low (HSPA8/PIGR) fertility markers in the uterovaginal junction. Our results demonstrated that sperm induced a significant and rapid change in the UF proteomic content and also in the SST epithelium. In F+ hens, mobilization of the ANXA4 protein in the apical part of SST cells after insemination was associated with increased levels of some proteoglycans and binding proteins, and also antimicrobial eggshell matrix protein (OCX32) in the UF. We also observed increased levels of lipid transporters involved in egg formation (VTG1-2, APOA1-4-H). In F- hens, insemination induced increased levels of PIGR in both UF and SST, of ANXA5 in SST, of UF enzymes exhibiting metallopeptidase activity and mucins. In conclusion, sperm induced significant changes in the UF proteomic content. This study also provides evidence that the SST immune system plays a major role in regulating sperm storage.
PXD013396	31438645	Chronic Exposure to Chewing Tobacco Induces Metabolic Reprogramming and Cancer Stem Cell-Like Properties in Esophageal Epithelial Cells. 	Chronic exposure to chewing tobacco induces metabolic reprogramming and cancer stem cell-like properties in esophageal epithelial cells	Chewing tobacco, cancer stem cells, esophageal cancer, metabolic reprogramming	Tobacco in its smoke and smokeless form are major risk factors for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). However, molecular alterations associated with smokeless tobacco exposure are poorly understood. In the Indian subcontinent, tobacco is predominantly consumed in chewing form. An understanding of molecular alterations associated with chewing tobacco exposure is vital for identifying molecular markers and potential targets. We developed an in vitro cellular model by exposing non-transformed esophageal epithelial cells to chewing tobacco over an eight-month period. Chronic exposure to chewing tobacco led to increase in cell proliferation, invasive ability and anchorage independent growth, indicating cell transformation. Molecular alterations associated with chewing tobacco exposure were characterized by carrying out exome sequencing and quantitative proteomic profiling of parental cells and chewing tobacco exposed cells. Quantitative proteomic analysis revealed increased expression of cancer stem cell markers in tobacco treated cells. In addition, tobacco exposed cells showed the Oxidative Phosphorylation (OXPHOS) phenotype with decreased expression of enzymes associated with glycolytic pathway and increased expression of a large number of mitochondrial proteins involved in electron transport chain as well as enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Electron micrographs revealed increase in number and size of mitochondria. Based on these observations, we propose that chronic exposure of esophageal epithelial cells to tobacco leads to cancer stem cell-like phenotype. These cells show the characteristic OXPHOS phenotype, which can be potentially targeted as a therapeutic strategy.
PXD014440	31440125	Topical Administration of a Soluble TNF Inhibitor Reduces Infarct Volume After Focal Cerebral Ischemia in Mice. 	Data in support of administration of a soluble TNF inhibitor that reduces infarct volume after focal cerebral ischemia in mice	Ischemic stroke, behavior, cytokines, microglial activation, neuroprotection	BACKGROUND: Tumor necrosis factor, which exists both as a soluble (solTNF) and a transmembrane (tmTNF) protein, plays an important role in post-stroke inflammation. The objective of the present study was to test the effect of topical versus intracerebroventricular administration of XPro1595 (a solTNF inhibitor) and etanercept (a solTNF and tmTNF inhibitor) compared to saline on output measures such as infarct volume and post-stroke inflammation in mice. METHODS: Adult male C57BL/6 mice were treated topically (2.5 mg/ml/1mul/h for 3 consecutive days) or intracerebroventricularly (1.25 mg/kg/0.5 ml, once) with saline, XPro1595, or etanercept immediately after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Mice were allowed to survive 1 or 3 days. Infarct volume, microglial and leukocyte profiles, and inflammatory markers were evaluated. RESULTS: We found that topical, and not intracerebroventricular, administration of XPro1595 reduced infarct volume at both 1 and 3 days after pMCAO. Etanercept showed no effect. We observed no changes in microglial or leukocyte populations. XPro1595 increased gene expression of P2ry12 at 1 day and Trem2 at 1 and 3 days, while decreasing Cx3cr1 expression at 1 and 3 days after pMCAO, suggesting a change in microglial activation toward a phagocytic phenotype. CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate that topical administration of XPro1595 for 3 consecutive days decreases infarct volumes after ischemic stroke, while modifying microglial activation and the inflammatory response post-stroke. This suggests that inhibitors of solTNF hold great promise for future neuroprotective treatment in ischemic stroke.
PXD013634	31440143	The Effects of Sindbis Viral Vectors on Neuronal Function. 	The effects of Sindbis viral vectors on neuronal function	Triple TOF, hippocampus, sindbis virus	Viral vectors are attractive tools to express genes in neurons. Transduction of neurons with a recombinant, replication-deficient Sindbis viral vector is a method of choice for studying the effects of short-term protein overexpression on neuronal function. However, to which extent Sindbis by itself may affect neurons is not fully understood. We assessed effects of neuronal transduction with a Sindbis viral vector on the transcriptome and proteome in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures, and analyzed the electrophysiological properties of individual CA1 neurons, at 24 h and 72 h after viral vector injection. Whereas Sindbis caused substantial gene expression alterations, changes at the protein level were less pronounced. Alterations in transcriptome and proteome were predominantly limited to proteins involved in mediating anti-viral innate immune responses. Sindbis transduction did not affect the intrinsic electrophysiological properties of individual neurons: the membrane potential and neuronal excitability were similar between transduced and non-transduced CA1 neurons up to 72 h after Sindbis injection. Synaptic currents also remained unchanged upon Sindbis transduction, unless slices were massively infected for 72 h. We conclude that Sindbis viral vectors at low transduction rates are suitable for studying short-term effects of a protein of interest on electrophysiological properties of neurons, but not for studies on the regulation of gene expression.
PXD014534	31441084	VAP-SCRN1 interaction regulates dynamic endoplasmic reticulum remodeling and presynaptic function. 	AP-MS analysis of Secernin-1 (SCRN1)	AP-MS, SCRN-VAP interactions., SCRN1, Secernin-1, VAPA, VAPB	In neurons, the continuous and dynamic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) network extends throughout the axon, and its dysfunction causes various axonopathies. However, it remains largely unknown how ER integrity and remodeling modulate presynaptic function in mammalian neurons. Here, we demonstrated that ER membrane receptors VAPA and VAPB are involved in modulating the synaptic vesicle (SV) cycle. VAP interacts with secernin-1 (SCRN1) at the ER membrane via a single FFAT-like motif. Similar to VAP, loss of SCRN1 or SCRN1-VAP interactions resulted in impaired SV cycling. Consistently, SCRN1 or VAP depletion was accompanied by decreased action potential-evoked Ca(2+) responses. Additionally, we found that VAP-SCRN1 interactions play an important role in maintaining ER continuity and dynamics, as well as presynaptic Ca(2+) homeostasis. Based on these findings, we propose a model where the ER-localized VAP-SCRN1 interactions provide a novel control mechanism to tune ER remodeling and thereby modulate Ca(2+) dynamics and SV cycling at presynaptic sites. These data provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms controlling ER structure and dynamics, and highlight the relevance of ER function for SV cycling.
PXD013515	31441241	NifA is the master regulator of both nitrogenase systems in Rhodobacter capsulatus. 	Not just an alternative nitrogenase: The Fe-nitrogenase system belongs to the NifA regulon in Rhodobacter capsulatus	AnfA regulon, Fe-nitrogenase, Mo-nitrogenase, NifA regulon, Rhodobacter	Rhodobacter capsulatus fixes atmospheric nitrogen (N2 ) by a molybdenum (Mo)-nitrogenase and a Mo-free iron (Fe)-nitrogenase, whose production is induced or repressed by Mo, respectively. At low nanomolar Mo concentrations, both isoenzymes are synthesized and contribute to nitrogen fixation. Here we examined the regulatory interplay of the central transcriptional activators NifA and AnfA by proteome profiling. As expected from earlier studies, synthesis of the structural proteins of Mo-nitrogenase (NifHDK) and Fe-nitrogenase (AnfHDGK) required NifA and AnfA, respectively, both of which depend on the alternative sigma factor RpoN to activate expression of their target genes. Unexpectedly, NifA was found to be essential for the synthesis of Fe-nitrogenase, electron supply to both nitrogenases, biosynthesis of their cofactors, and production of RpoN. Apparently, RpoN is the only NifA-dependent factor required for target gene activation by AnfA, since plasmid-borne rpoN restored anfH transcription in a NifA-deficient strain. However, plasmid-borne rpoN did not restore Fe-nitrogenase activity in this strain. Taken together, NifA requirement for synthesis and activity of both nitrogenases suggests that Fe-nitrogenase functions as a complementary nitrogenase rather than an alternative isoenzyme in R. capsulatus.
PXD020615	31442030	Middle-Down Multi-Attribute Analysis of Antibody-Drug Conjugates with Electron Transfer Dissociation. 	MASH Explorer: A Universal Software Environment for Top-Down Proteomics	Data analysis software, Intact Protein Analysis, Proteoform characterization, Top-down proteomics	Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are designed to combine the target specificity of monoclonal antibodies and potent cytotoxin drugs to achieve better therapeutic outcomes. Comprehensive evaluation of the quality attributes of ADCs is critical for drug development but remains challenging due to heterogeneity of the construct. Currently, peptide mapping with reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RPLC) coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) is the predominant approach to characterize ADCs. However, it is suboptimal for sequence characterization and quantification of ADCs because it lacks a comprehensive view of coexisting variants and suffers from varying ionization effects of drug-conjugated peptides compared to unconjugated counterparts. Here, we present the first middle-down RPLC-MS analysis of both cysteine (Adcetris; BV) and lysine (Kadcyla; T-DM1) conjugated ADCs at the subunit level (~25 kDa) with electron transfer dissociation (ETD). We successfully achieved high-resolution separation of subunit isomers arising from different drug conjugation and subsequently localized the conjugation sites. Moreover, we obtained a comprehensive overview of the microvariants associated with each subunits and characterized them such as oxidized variants with different sites. Furthermore, we observed relatively high levels of conjugation near complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) from the heavy chain but no drug conjugation near CDRs of light chain (Lc) from lysine conjugated T-DM1. Based on the extracted ion chromatograms, we accurately measured average drug to antibody ratio (DAR) values and relative occupancy of drug-conjugated subunits. Overall, the middle-down MS approach enables the evaluation of multiple quality attributes including DAR, positional isomers, conjugation sites, occupancy, and microvariants, which potentially opens up a new avenue to characterize ADCs.
PXD011687	31443506	Limited Oxidative Stress Favors Resistance to Skeletal Muscle Atrophy in Hibernating Brown Bears (Ursus Arctos). 	Brown bear skeletal muscle 2D-DIGE-LC-MSMS	2D-DIGE, Bears, hibernation, skeletal muscle	Oxidative stress, which is believed to promote muscle atrophy, has been reported to occur in a few hibernators. However, hibernating bears exhibit efficient energy savings and muscle protein sparing, despite long-term physical inactivity and fasting. We hypothesized that the regulation of the oxidant/antioxidant balance and oxidative stress could favor skeletal muscle maintenance in hibernating brown bears. We showed that increased expressions of cold-inducible proteins CIRBP and RBM3 could favor muscle mass maintenance and alleviate oxidative stress during hibernation. Downregulation of the subunits of the mitochondrial electron transfer chain complexes I, II, and III, and antioxidant enzymes, possibly due to the reduced mitochondrial content, indicated a possible reduction of the production of reactive oxygen species in the hibernating muscle. Concomitantly, the upregulation of cytosolic antioxidant systems, under the control of the transcription factor NRF2, and the maintenance of the GSH/GSSG ratio suggested that bear skeletal muscle is not under a significant oxidative insult during hibernation. Accordingly, lower levels of oxidative damage were recorded in hibernating bear skeletal muscles. These results identify mechanisms by which limited oxidative stress may underlie the resistance to skeletal muscle atrophy in hibernating brown bears. They may constitute therapeutic targets for the treatment of human muscle atrophy.
PXD013931	31443698	Prognostic value of biomarkers EpCAM and alphaB-crystallin associated with lymphatic metastasis in breast cancer by iTRAQ analysis. 	Prognostic value of biomarkers EpCAM and B-crystallin is associated with lymphatic metastasis in breast cancer by iTRAQ analysis	Biomarker, Breast cancer, EpCAM, FADD, Metastasis, NDRG1, iTRAQ Proteomic analysis, alphaB-crystallin	BACKGROUND: Metastasis is responsible for the majority of deaths in a variety of cancer types, including breast cancer. Although several factors or biomarkers have been identified to predict the outcome of patients with breast cancer, few studies have been conducted to identify metastasis-associated biomarkers. METHODS: Quantitative iTRAQ proteomics analysis was used to detect differentially expressed proteins between lymph node metastases and their paired primary tumor tissues from 23 patients with metastatic breast cancer. Immunohistochemistry was performed to validate the expression of two upregulated (EpCAM, FADD) and two downregulated (NDRG1, alphaB-crystallin) proteins in 190 paraffin-embedded tissue samples. These four proteins were further analyzed for their correlation with clinicopathological features in 190 breast cancer patients. RESULTS: We identified 637 differentially regulated proteins (397 upregulated and 240 downregulated) in lymph node metastases compared with their paired primary tumor tissues. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013931. Furthermore, bioinformatics analysis using GEO profiling confirmed the difference in the expression of EpCAM between metastases and primary tumors tissues. Two upregulated (EpCAM, FADD) and two downregulated (NDRG1, alphaB-crystallin) proteins were associated with the progression of breast cancer. Obviously, EpCAM plays a role in the metastasis of breast cancer cells to the lymph node. We further identified alphaB-crystallin as an independent biomarker to predict lymph node metastasis and the outcome of breast cancer patients. CONCLUSION: We have identified that EpCAM plays a role in the metastasis of breast cancer cells to the lymph node. alphaB-crystallin, a stress-related protein that has recently been shown to be important for cell invasion and survival, was identified as a potential prognostic biomarker to predict the outcome of breast cancer patients.
PXD001928	31444107	Proteomics Links Ubiquitin Chain Topology Change to Transcription Factor Activation. 	Near complete quantitative proteomics for Yeast	High coverage, SILAC	A surprising complexity of ubiquitin signaling has emerged with identification of different ubiquitin chain topologies. However, mechanisms of how the diverse ubiquitin codes control biological processes remain poorly understood. Here, we use quantitative whole-proteome mass spectrometry to identify yeast proteins that are regulated by lysine 11 (K11)-linked ubiquitin chains. The entire Met4 pathway, which links cell proliferation with sulfur amino acid metabolism, was significantly affected by K11 chains and selected for mechanistic studies. Previously, we demonstrated that a K48-linked ubiquitin chain represses the transcription factor Met4. Here, we show that efficient Met4 activation requires a K11-linked topology. Mechanistically, our results propose that the K48 chain binds to a topology-selective tandem ubiquitin binding region in Met4 and competes with binding of the basal transcription machinery to the same region. The change to K11-enriched chain architecture releases this competition and permits binding of the basal transcription complex to activate transcription.
PXD013001	31444342	Structural basis of Cullin 2 RING E3 ligase regulation by the COP9 signalosome. 	HDX-MS of CSN-CRL2 complexes -  Structural basis of Cullin 2 RING E3 ligase regulation by the COP9 signalosome	COP9 signalosome, E3 Ligase, conformational dynamics, protein-protein interactions, structural biology	Cullin-Ring E3 Ligases (CRLs) regulate a multitude of cellular pathways through specific substrate receptors. The COP9 signalosome (CSN) deactivates CRLs by removing NEDD8 from activated Cullins. Here we present structures of the neddylated and deneddylated CSN-CRL2 complexes by combining single-particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) with chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS). These structures suggest a conserved mechanism of CSN activation, consisting of conformational clamping of the CRL2 substrate by CSN2/CSN4, release of the catalytic CSN5/CSN6 heterodimer and finally activation of the CSN5 deneddylation machinery. Using hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HDX)-MS we show that CRL2 activates CSN5/CSN6 in a neddylation-independent manner. The presence of NEDD8 is required to activate the CSN5 active site. Overall, by synergising cryo-EM with MS, we identify sensory regions of the CSN that mediate its stepwise activation and provide a framework for understanding the regulatory mechanism of other Cullin family members.
PXD013310	31444903	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Simian Primary Hepatocytes Reveals Candidate Molecular Markers for Permissiveness to Relapsing Malaria Plasmodium cynomolgi. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of simian primary hepatocytes reveals candidate molecular markers for permissiveness to relapsing malaria Plasmodium cynomolgi	Biomarker, Drug assay model development, Malaria liver stage, Quantitative proteomic, TMT, permissiveness to infection	A major obstacle impeding malaria research is the lack of an in vitro system capable of supporting infection through the entire liver stage cycle of the parasite, including that of the dormant forms known as hypnozoites. Primary hepatocytes lose their liver specific functions in long-term in vitro culture. The malaria parasite Plasmodium initiates infection in hepatocyte. This corresponds to the first step of clinically silent infection and development of malaria parasite Plasmodium in the liver. Thus, the liver stage is an ideal target for development of novel antimalarial interventions and vaccines. However, drug discovery against Plasmodium liver stage is severely hampered by the poor understanding of host-parasite interactions during the liver stage infection and development. In this study, tandem mass tag labeling based quantitative proteomic analysis is performed in simian primary hepatocytes cultured in three different systems of susceptibility to Plasmodium infection. The results display potential candidate molecular markers, including asialoglycoprotein receptor, apolipoproteins, squalene synthase, and scavenger receptor B1 (SR-BI) that facilitate productive infection and full development in relapsing Plasmodium species. The identification of these candidate proteins required for constructive infection and development of hepatic malaria liver stages paves the way to explore them as therapeutic targets.
PXD011712	31445069	Sex-based venom variation in the eastern bark centipede (Hemiscolopendra marginata). 	Hemiscolopendra marginata venom MS	Centipede, venom	Sexually dimorphic traits are widespread across metazoans and are often the result of sex-specific inheritance or sex-based differences in gene expression. Intersexual differences have even been observed in invertebrate venoms, although the identification of these differences has been limited to the more well-studied groups, such as scorpions and spiders, where sex-based differences in morphology and behavior are apparent. Recent studies on centipede venom have identified evidence of intraspecific variation, but intersexual differences have not been reported. To investigate the potential for sex-based differences in centipede venom composition, we performed reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) analyses on five male and 15 female eastern bark centipedes (Hemiscolopendra marginata) from the Apalachicola National Forest in northern Florida. After detecting a significant sex-based difference in H. marginata venom composition, we completed a high-throughput venom-gland transcriptomic and venom proteomic analysis of one male and one female to determine the genetic basis for differences in venom composition. We identified 47 proteomically confirmed toxins and 717 nontoxin transcripts in H. marginata venom-glands. Of these proteomically confirmed toxins, the most abundantly expressed in the male venom included ion channel-modulating toxins and toxins so divergent from any characterized homologs that they could not be given a functional classification, whereas the most abundantly expressed in the female venom were gamma-glutamyl transferases and CAPs (cysteine-rich secretory proteins, antigen 5, and pathogenesis-related 1 proteins). These differences were then confirmed by performing replicate LC-MS/MS analyses on the venom from an additional three male and three female H. marginata. Our RP-HPLC and high-throughput transcriptomic and proteomic approach resulted in not only an in-depth characterization of H. marginata venom, but represents the first example of sex-based variation in centipede venoms.
PXD007871	31445161	Perturbations in RhoA signalling cause altered migration and impaired neuritogenesis in human iPSC-derived neural cells with PARK2 mutation. 	Proteomic analysis of human PARK2 knockout iPSC-derived neurons	Human iPS cells, Parkinsons disease, QExactive-HF	Mutations in parkin, encoded by the PARK2 gene, causes early-onset familial Parkinson's disease (PD), but dysfunctional parkin has also been implicated in sporadic PD. By combining human isogenic induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) with and without PARK2 knockout (KO) and a novel large-scale mass spectrometry based proteomics and post-translational modification (PTM)-omics approach, we have mapped changes in protein profiles and PTMs caused by parkin deficiency in neurons. Our study identifies changes to several proteins previously shown to be dysregulated in brains of sporadic PD patients. Pathway analysis and subsequent in vitro assays reveal perturbations in migration and neurite outgrowth in the PARK2 KO neurons. We confirm the neurite defects using long-term engraftment of neurons in the striatum of immunosuppressed hemiparkinsonian adult rats. The GTP-binding protein RhoA was identified as a key upstream regulator, and RhoA activity was significantly increased in PARK2 KO neurons. By inhibiting RhoA signalling the migration and neurite outgrowth phenotypes could be rescued. Our study provides new insight into the pathogenesis of PD and demonstrates the broadly applicable potential of proteomics and PTMomics for elucidating the role of disease-causing mutations.
PXD014771	31447350	Customizing Functionalized Cofactor Mimics to Study the Human Pyridoxal 5'-Phosphate-Binding Proteome. 	Customizing functionalized cofactor mimics to study the human pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-binding proteome	Pyridoxal 5-phosphate, pyridoxal-probe, vitamin B6 antagonist	Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) is a versatile cofactor that catalyzes a plethora of chemical transformations within a cell. Although many human PLP-dependent enzymes (PLP-DEs) with crucial physiological and pathological roles are known, a global method enabling their cellular profiling is lacking. Here, we demonstrate the utility of a cofactor probe for the identification of human PLP-binding proteins in living cells. Striking selectivity of human pyridoxal kinase led to a customized labeling strategy covering a large fraction of known PLP-binding proteins across various cancer-derived cell lines. Labeling intensities of some PLP-DEs varied depending on the cell type while the overall protein expression levels of these proteins remained constant. In addition, we applied the methodology for in situ screening of PLP-antagonists and unraveled known binders as well as unknown off-targets. Taken together, our proteome-wide method to study PLP-DEs in human cancer-derived cells enables global understanding of the interactome of this important cofactor.
PXD007755	31448612	Proteomic Profiling of Rhabdomyosarcoma-Derived Exosomes Yield Insights into Their Functional Role in Paracrine Signaling. 	Proteomic profiling of rhabdomyosarcoma-derived exosomes yield functional role for extracellular vesicles	Rhabdomyosarcoma, exosomes, pathways	Exosomes are important intercellular communication vehicles, secreted into body fluids by multiple cell types, including tumor cells. They have been demonstrated to contribute to the metastatic progression of tumor cells through paracrine signaling. Tumor exosomes contain intact and functional proteins, mRNA and miRNA that may alter the cellular environment to favor tumor growth. We evaluated the protein cargo of exosomes derived from the childhood tumor rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) and the molecular pathways they are implicated in to decipher their role in the progression of this aggressive disease. We conducted a mass spectrometry analysis of exosome content isolated from five RMS cell lines: three of embryonal RMS (ERMS) and two of alveolar RMS (ARMS) histology and verified results by multiple reaction monitoring and western blot analyses. Results revealed 161 common proteins in ERMS-derived exosomes and 122 common proteins in ARMS-derived exosomes, of which 81 proteins were common to both subtypes. Using both PANTHER gene classification and Pathway Studio software, we assessed the perturbed biological processes and altered pathways in which the exosomal proteins are involved. The 81 commonly expressed proteins included those involved in "cell-signaling," "cell-movement," and "cancer." Pathways engaging the identified proteins revealed 37 common pathways including "integrin signaling pathway," "inflammation mediated by chemokine and cytokine signaling pathway," and "angiogenesis." Finally, a comparison of exosomal proteins of RMS cells with publicly available datasets from other cancer cells revealed that 36 proteins are specific and endogenous to the RMS-exosomes. Taken together, our results reveal that RMS-derived exosomes carry a protein cargo that contributes to conserved cellular signaling networks across multiple cell lines, and we also identify RMS exosome-specific proteins that should be further evaluated as possible novel biomarkers for this tumor.
PXD013641	31448616	Extremely Fast and Accurate Open Modification Spectral Library Searching of High-Resolution Mass Spectra Using Feature Hashing and Graphics Processing Units. 	Extremely fast and accurate open modification spectral library searching of high-resolution mass spectra using feature hashing and graphics processing units	approximate nearest neighbor indexing, feature hashing, graphics processing unit, open modification searching, post-translational modification, spectral library	Open modification searching (OMS) is a powerful search strategy to identify peptides with any type of modification. OMS works by using a very wide precursor mass window to allow modified spectra to match against their unmodified variants, after which the modification types can be inferred from the corresponding precursor mass differences. A disadvantage of this strategy, however, is the large computational cost, because each query spectrum has to be compared against a multitude of candidate peptides. We have previously introduced the ANN-SoLo tool for fast and accurate open spectral library searching. ANN-SoLo uses approximate nearest neighbor indexing to speed up OMS by selecting only a limited number of the most relevant library spectra to compare to an unknown query spectrum. Here we demonstrate how this candidate selection procedure can be further optimized using graphics processing units. Additionally, we introduce a feature hashing scheme to convert high-resolution spectra to low-dimensional vectors. On the basis of these algorithmic advances, along with low-level code optimizations, the new version of ANN-SoLo is up to an order of magnitude faster than its initial version. This makes it possible to efficiently perform open searches on a large scale to gain a deeper understanding about the protein modification landscape. We demonstrate the computational efficiency and identification performance of ANN-SoLo based on a large data set of the draft human proteome. ANN-SoLo is implemented in Python and C++. It is freely available under the Apache 2.0 license at https://github.com/bittremieux/ANN-SoLo .
PXD014632	31448663	Deep proteomic analysis of Dnmt1 mutant/hypomorphic colorectal cancer cells reveals dysregulation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition and subcellular re-localization of Beta-Catenin. 	Deep proteomic analysis of Dnmt1 mutant/hypomorphic colorectal cancer cells reveals dys-regulation of Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition and subcellular re-localization of Beta-Catenin	Dnmt1, HCT116, colorectal cancer, methltransferase	DNA methyltransferase I plays the central role in maintenance of CpG DNA methylation patterns across the genome and alteration of CpG methylation patterns is a frequent and significant occurrence across many cancers. Cancer cells carrying hypomorphic alleles of Dnmt1 have become important tools for understanding Dnmt1 function and CpG methylation. In this study, we analyse colorectal cancer cells with a homozygous deletion of exons 3 to 5 of Dnmt1, resulting in reduced Dnmt1 activity. Although this cell model has been widely used to study the epigenome, the effects of the Dnmt1 hypomorph on cell signalling pathways and the wider proteome are largely unknown. In this study, we perform the first quantitative proteomic analysis of this important cell model and identify multiple signalling pathways and processes that are significantly dysregulated in the hypomorph cells. In Dnmt1 hypomorph cells, we observed a clear and unexpected signature of increased Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers as well as reduced expression and sub-cellular re-localization of Beta-Catenin. Expression of wild-type Dnmt1 in hypomorph cells or knock-down of wild-type Dnmt1 did not recapitulate or rescue the observed protein profiles in Dnmt1 hypomorph cells suggesting that hypomorphic Dnmt1 causes changes not solely attributable to Dnmt1 protein levels. In summary, we present the first comprehensive proteomic analysis of the widely studied Dnmt1 hypomorph colorectal cancer cells and identify redistribution of Dnmt1 and its interaction partner Beta-Catenin.
PXD011206	31449567	Comparative multi-omics systems analysis reveal the glycolysis / gluconeogenesis signal pathway play an important role in virulence attenuation in fish-derived GBS YM001. 	Streptococcus agalactiae LC-MSMS	Streptococcus agalactiae, Tilapia	Streptococcus agalactiae(GBS) is a seriously threat to the farmed tilapia, and oral vaccination was considered to be the most desirable means which requires deep understanding of virulence mechanism of the fish-derived GBS. Our previous genome study of the fish-derived attenuated strain YM001 showed that there were two large deletions in YM001 compared to its parental virulent strain HN016. In this study, a combined transcriptomic and proteomic analysis was performed on YM001 and HN016 strains, and the important genes were verified by RT-qPCR in bacteria strains and infected-tilapia tissues. Overall, we have shown that a total of 958 genes and 331 proteins were significantly differential expressed between YM001 and HN016. By functional annotation of these DEGs and DEPs, genes that were enriched in pentose phosphate pathway(pgm, ptsG, pgi pfkA, fbaA and FBP3) and pyruvate metabolism pathway(pdhA, pdhB, pdhC and pdhD) were identifed as important candidate genes for leads low growth ability in attenuated strain, which may be an important reasons leading virulence attenuation in the end. The expression levels the candidate genes in pentose phosphate pathway and pyruvate metabolism pathway were significant differential expressed in tilapia' brain and spleen when infected with YM001 and HN016. Our study indicated that the pentose phosphate pathway and pyruvate metabolism pathway that affecting the growth of the strain may be one of the important reasons for the virulence attenuation in HN016.
PXD014758	31450622	Identification of Msp1-Induced Signaling Components in Rice Leaves by Integrated Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analysis. 	Cytosolic and plasma membrane proteome analysis of rice leaves in response to MSP1 treatment	MSP1, PAMP, TMT, plant-pathogen interaction, plasma membrane, rice	MSP1 is a Magnaporthe oryzae secreted protein that elicits defense responses in rice. However, the molecular mechanism of MSP1 action is largely elusive. Moreover, it is yet to be established whether MSP1 functions as a pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) or an effector. Here, we employed a TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis of cytosolic as well as plasma membrane proteins to decipher the MSP1 induced signaling in rice. This approach led to the identification of 6691 proteins, of which 3049 were identified in the plasma membrane (PM), while 3642 were identified in the cytosolic fraction. A parallel phosphoproteome analysis led to the identification of 1906 phosphopeptides, while the integration of proteome and phosphoproteome data showed activation of proteins related to the proteolysis, jasmonic acid biosynthesis, redox metabolism, and MAP kinase signaling pathways in response to MSP1 treatment. Further, MSP1 induced phosphorylation of some of the key proteins including respiratory burst oxidase homologue-D (RBOHD), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase-1 (MEKK1), mitogen-activated protein kinase-3/6 (MPK3/6), calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) and calmodulin (CaM) suggest activation of PAMP-triggered immunity (PTI) in response to MSP1 treatment. In essence, our results further support the functioning of MSP1 as a PAMP and provide an overview of the MSP1 induced signaling in rice leaves.
PXD012357	31451547	Deep Protein Methylation Profiling by Combined Chemical and Immunoaffinity Approaches Reveals Novel PRMT1 Targets. 	Deep protein methylation profiling by combined chemical and immunoaffinity approaches reveals novel PRMT1 targets	ADMA, Arginine, Dimethyl, LCMS, Liquid Chromatography, Lysine, MMA, Methylation, Monomethyl, PRMT, PRMT1, PTM, Posttranslational Modification, Q Exactive Plus, SDMA	Protein methylation has been implicated in many important biological contexts including signaling, metabolism, and transcriptional control. Despite the importance of this post-translational modification, the global analysis of protein methylation by mass spectrometry-based proteomics has not been extensively studied because of the lack of robust, well-characterized techniques for methyl peptide enrichment. Here, to better investigate protein methylation, we compared two methods for methyl peptide enrichment: immunoaffinity purification (IAP) and high pH strong cation exchange (SCX). Using both methods, we identified 1720 methylation sites on 778 proteins. Comparison of these methods revealed that they are largely orthogonal, suggesting that the usage of both techniques is required to provide a global view of protein methylation. Using both IAP and SCX, we then investigated changes in protein methylation downstream of protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1). PRMT1 knockdown resulted in significant changes to 127 arginine methylation sites on 78 proteins. In contrast, only a single lysine methylation site was significantly changed upon PRMT1 knockdown. In PRMT1 knockdown cells, we found 114 MMA sites that were either significantly downregulated or upregulated on proteins enriched for mRNA metabolic processes. PRMT1 knockdown also induced significant changes in both asymmetric dimethyl arginine (ADMA) and symmetric dimethyl arginine (SDMA). Using characteristic neutral loss fragmentation ions, we annotated dimethylarginines as either ADMA or SDMA. Through integrative analysis of methyl forms, we identified 18 high confidence PRMT1 substrates and 12 methylation sites that are scavenged by other non-PRMT1 arginine methyltransferases in the absence of PRMT1 activity. We also identified one methylation site, HNRNPA1 R206, which switched from ADMA to SDMA upon PRMT1 knockdown. Taken together, our results suggest that deep protein methylation profiling by mass spectrometry requires orthogonal enrichment techniques to identify novel PRMT1 methylation targets and highlight the dynamic interplay between methyltransferases in mammalian cells.
PXD014169	31451656	Form III RubisCO-mediated transaldolase variant of the Calvin cycle in a chemolithoautotrophic bacterium. 	Proteome analysis of bacterial strain Thermodesulfobium acidiphilum	Thermodesulfobium acidiphilum	The Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) cycle assimilates CO2 for the primary production of organic matter in all plants and algae, as well as in some autotrophic bacteria. The key enzyme of the CBB cycle, ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO), is a main determinant of de novo organic matter production on Earth. Of the three carboxylating forms of RubisCO, forms I and II participate in autotrophy, and form III so far has been associated only with nucleotide and nucleoside metabolism. Here, we report that form III RubisCO functions in the CBB cycle in the thermophilic chemolithoautotrophic bacterium Thermodesulfobium acidiphilum, a phylum-level lineage representative. We further show that autotrophic CO2 fixation in T. acidiphilum is accomplished via the transaldolase variant of the CBB cycle, which has not been previously demonstrated experimentally and has been considered unlikely to occur. Thus, this work reveals a distinct form of the key pathway of CO2 fixation.
PXD012354	31451685	EZHIP constrains Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 activity in germ cells. 	GPIF constrains Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 activity in germ cells	Chromatin, Polycomb., histone, methylation	The Polycomb group of proteins is required for the proper orchestration of gene expression due to its role in maintaining transcriptional silencing. It is composed of several chromatin modifying complexes, including Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2), which deposits H3K27me2/3. Here, we report the identification of a cofactor of PRC2, EZHIP (EZH1/2 Inhibitory Protein), expressed predominantly in the gonads. EZHIP limits the enzymatic activity of PRC2 and lessens the interaction between the core complex and its accessory subunits, but does not interfere with PRC2 recruitment to chromatin. Deletion of Ezhip in mice leads to a global increase in H3K27me2/3 deposition both during spermatogenesis and at late stages of oocyte maturation. This does not affect the initial number of follicles but is associated with a reduction of follicles in aging. Our results suggest that mature oocytes Ezhip-/- might not be fully functional and indicate that fertility is strongly impaired in Ezhip-/- females. Altogether, our study uncovers EZHIP as a regulator of chromatin landscape in gametes.
PXD012152	31451726	Proteomic enzyme analysis of the marine fungus Paradendryphiella salina reveals alginate lyase as a minimal adaptation strategy for brown algae degradation. 	Proteomic and genomic analysis of the marine fungus Paradendryphiella salina	fungi, macro-algae, marine, supernatant	We set out to investigate the genetic adaptations of the marine fungus Paradendryphiella salina CBS112865 for degradation of brown macroalgae. We performed whole genome and transcriptome sequencing and shotgun proteomic analysis of the secretome of P. salina grown on three species of brown algae and under carbon limitation. Genome comparison with closely related terrestrial fungi revealed that P. salina had a similar but reduced CAZyme profile relative to the terrestrial fungi except for the presence of three putative alginate lyases from Polysaccharide Lyase (PL) family 7 and a putative PL8 with similarity to ascomycete chondroitin AC lyases. Phylogenetic and homology analyses place the PL7 sequences amongst mannuronic acid specific PL7 proteins from marine bacteria. Recombinant expression, purification and characterization of one of the PL7 genes confirmed the specificity. Proteomic analysis of the P. salina secretome when growing on brown algae, revealed the PL7 and PL8 enzymes abundantly secreted together with enzymes necessary for degradation of laminarin, cellulose, lipids and peptides. Our findings indicate that the basic CAZyme repertoire of saprobic and plant pathogenic ascomycetes, with the addition of PL7 alginate lyases, provide P. salina with sufficient enzymatic capabilities to degrade several types of brown algae polysaccharides.
PXD014530	31451768	Protein kinase N controls a lysosomal lipid switch to facilitate nutrient signalling via mTORC1. 	Determination of PIK3C2B binding small GTPases	PI3 kinase, Rab GTPase	Mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase functions in two multiprotein complexes: lysosomal mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) and mTORC2 at the plasma membrane. mTORC1 modulates the cell response to growth factors and nutrients by increasing protein synthesis and cell growth, and repressing the autophagy-lysosomal pathway(1-4); however, dysfunction in mTORC1 is implicated in various diseases(3,5,6). mTORC1 activity is regulated by phosphoinositide lipids(7-10). Class I phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)-mediated production of phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate(6,11) at the plasma membrane stimulates mTORC1 signalling, while local synthesis of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate by starvation-induced recruitment of class II PI3K-beta (PI3KC2-beta) to lysosomes represses mTORC1 activity(12). How the localization and activity of PI3KC2-beta are regulated by mitogens is unknown. We demonstrate that protein kinase N (PKN) facilitates mTORC1 signalling by repressing PI3KC2-beta-mediated phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate synthesis downstream of mTORC2. Active PKN2 phosphorylates PI3KC2-beta to trigger PI3KC2-beta complex formation with inhibitory 14-3-3 proteins. Conversely, loss of PKN2 or inactivation of its target phosphorylation site in PI3KC2-beta represses nutrient signalling via mTORC1. These results uncover a mechanism that couples mTORC2-dependent activation of PKN2 to the regulation of mTORC1-mediated nutrient signalling by local lipid signals.
PXD006812	31451907	Early defects in translation elongation factor 1alpha levels at excitatory synapses in alpha-synucleinopathy. 	PDGF-hSyn Synaptosomes (vGlut FASS) nanoLC-MS/MS	Excitatory synapse, Lewy body, Parkinson's diseas, Synaptosome, vGlut	Cognitive decline and dementia in neurodegenerative diseases are associated with synapse dysfunction and loss, which may precede neuron loss by several years. While misfolded and aggregated alpha-synuclein is recognized in the disease progression of synucleinopathies, the nature of glutamatergic synapse dysfunction and loss remains incompletely understood. Using fluorescence-activated synaptosome sorting (FASS), we enriched excitatory glutamatergic synaptosomes from mice overexpressing human alpha-synuclein (h-alphaS) and wild-type littermates to unprecedented purity. Subsequent label-free proteomic quantification revealed a set of proteins differentially expressed upon human alpha-synuclein overexpression. These include overrepresented proteins involved in the synaptic vesicle cycle, ER-Golgi trafficking, metabolism and cytoskeleton. Unexpectedly, we found and validated a steep reduction of eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha (eEF1A1) levels in excitatory synapses at early stages of h-alphaS mouse model pathology. While eEF1A1 reduction correlated with the loss of postsynapses, its immunoreactivity was found on both sides of excitatory synapses. Moreover, we observed a reduction in eEF1A1 immunoreactivity in the cingulate gyrus neuropil of patients with Lewy body disease along with a reduction in PSD95 levels. Altogether, our results suggest a link between structural impairments underlying cognitive decline in neurodegenerative disorders and local synaptic defects. eEF1A1 may therefore represent a limiting factor to synapse maintenance.
PXD012700	31452088	Bolt: a New Age Peptide Search Engine for Comprehensive MS/MS Sequencing Through Vast Protein Databases in Minutes. 	Bolt: A new age peptide search engine for comprehensive MS/MS sequencing through vast protein databases in minutes	Bolt, Hela, Mutations, SNP	Recent increases in mass spectrometry speed, sensitivity, and resolution now permit comprehensive proteomics coverage. However, the results are often hindered by sub-optimal data processing pipelines. In almost all MS/MS peptide search engines, users must limit their search space to a canonical database due to time constraints and q value considerations, but this typically does not reflect the individual genetic variations of the organism being studied. In addition, engines will nearly always assume the presence of only fully tryptic peptides and limit PTMs to a handful. Even on high-performance servers, these search engines are computationally expensive, and most users decide to dial back their search parameters. We present Bolt, a new cloud-based search engine that can search more than 900,000 protein sequences (canonical, isoform, mutations, and contaminants) with 41 post-translation modifications and N-terminal and C-terminal partial tryptic search in minutes on a standard configuration laptop. Along with increases in speed, Bolt provides an additional benefit of improvement in high-confidence identifications. Sixty-one percent of peptides uniquely identified by Bolt may be validated by strong fragmentation patterns, compared with 13% of peptides uniquely identified by SEQUEST and 6% of peptides uniquely identified by Mascot. Furthermore, 30% of unique Bolt identifications were verified by all three software on the longer gradient analysis, compared with only 20% and 27% for SEQUEST and Mascot identifications respectively. Bolt represents, to the best of our knowledge, the first fully scalable, cloud-based quantitative proteomic solution that can be operated within a user-friendly GUI interface. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012700.
PXD013980	31454892	SILAC-Based Quantification of TGFBR2-Regulated Protein Expression in Extracellular Vesicles of Microsatellite Unstable Colorectal Cancers. 	SILAC-Based Quantification of TGFBR2-Dependent Protein Expression in Extracellular Vesicles of Microsatellite Unstable Colorectal Cancers	SILAC, colorectal cancer, extracellular vesicles, microsatellite instability	Microsatellite unstable (MSI) colorectal cancers (CRCs) are characterized by mutational inactivation of Transforming Growth Factor Beta Receptor Type 2 (TGFBR2). TGFBR2-deficient CRCs present altered target gene and protein expression. Such cellular alterations modulate the content of CRC-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs function as couriers of proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids in intercellular communication. At a qualitative level, we have previously shown that TGFBR2 deficiency causes overall alterations in the EV protein content. To deepen the basic understanding of altered protein dynamics, this work aimed to determine TGFBR2-dependent EV protein signatures in a quantitative manner. Using a stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) approach for mass spectrometry-based quantification, 48 TGFBR2-regulated proteins were identified in MSI CRC-derived EVs. Overall, TGFBR2 deficiency caused upregulation of several EV proteins related to the extracellular matrix and nucleosome as well as downregulation of proteasome-associated proteins. The present study emphasizes the general overlap of proteins between EVs and their parental CRC cells but also highlights the impact of TGFBR2 deficiency on EV protein composition. From a clinical perspective, TGFBR2-regulated quantitative differences of protein expression in EVs might nominate novel biomarkers for liquid biopsy-based MSI typing in the future.
PXD014967	31455003	Insights into Early Recovery from Influenza Pneumonia by Spatial and Temporal Quantification of Putative Lung Regenerating Cells and by Lung Proteomics. 	Insights into Early Recovery from Influenza Pneumonia by Spatial and Temporal Quantification of Putative Lung Regeneration Cells and buy Lung Proteomics	Comparative Quantification, Influenza, KRT5, Lung Regeneration, P63, Pneumonia, Proliferating Alveolar Type 2 Cells, Stem Cells	During influenza pneumonia, the alveolar epithelial cells of the lungs are targeted by the influenza virus. The distal airway stem cells (DASCs) and proliferating alveolar type II (AT2) cells are reported to be putative lung repair cells. However, their relative spatial and temporal distribution is still unknown during influenza-induced acute lung injury. Here, we investigated the distribution of these cells, and concurrently performed global proteomic analysis of the infected lungs to elucidate and link the cellular and molecular events during influenza pneumonia recovery. BALB/c mice were infected with a sub-lethal dose of influenza H1N1 virus. From 5 to 25 days post-infection (dpi), mouse lungs were subjected to histopathologic and immunofluorescence analysis to probe for global distribution of lung repair cells (using P63 and KRT5 markers for DASCs; SPC and PCNA markers for AT2 cells). At 7 and 15 dpi, infected mouse lungs were also subjected to protein mass spectrometry for relative protein quantification. DASCs appeared only in the damaged area of the lung from 7 dpi onwards, reaching a peak at 21 dpi, and persisted until 25 dpi. However, no differentiation of DASCs to AT2 cells was observed by 25 dpi. In contrast, AT2 cells began proliferating from 7 dpi to replenish their population, especially within the boundary area between damaged and undamaged areas of the infected lungs. Mass spectrometry and gene ontology analysis revealed prominent innate immune responses at 7 dpi, which shifted towards adaptive immune responses by 15 dpi. Hence, proliferating AT2 cells but not DASCs contribute to AT2 cell regeneration following transition from innate to adaptive immune responses during the early phase of recovery from influenza pneumonia up to 25 dpi.
PXD011672	31455725	Therapeutic blockade of activin-A improves NK cell function and antitumor immunity. 	Activin A and NK cell function	Activin signaling, QTOF, TGF-b signaling, label-free proteomics	Natural killer (NK) cells are innate lymphocytes that play a major role in immunosurveillance against tumor initiation and metastatic spread. The signals and checkpoints that regulate NK cell fitness and function in the tumor microenvironment are not well defined. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is a suppressor of NK cells that inhibits interleukin-15 (IL-15)-dependent signaling events and increases the abundance of receptors that promote tissue residency. Here, we showed that NK cells express the type I activin receptor ALK4, which, upon binding to its ligand activin-A, phosphorylated SMAD2/3 to suppress IL-15-mediated NK cell metabolism. Activin-A impaired human and mouse NK cell proliferation and reduced the production of granzyme B to impair tumor killing. Similar to TGF-beta, activin-A also induced SMAD2/3 phosphorylation and stimulated NK cells to increase their cell surface expression of several markers of ILC1 cells. Activin-A also induced these changes in TGF-beta receptor-deficient NK cells, suggesting that activin-A and TGF-beta stimulate independent pathways that drive SMAD2/3-mediated NK cell suppression. Last, inhibition of activin-A by follistatin substantially slowed orthotopic melanoma growth in mice. These data highlight the relevance of examining TGF-beta-independent SMAD2/3 signaling mechanisms as a therapeutic axis to relieve NK cell suppression and promote antitumor immunity.
PXD013435	31455787	RST1 and RIPR connect the cytosolic RNA exosome to the Ski complex in Arabidopsis. 	RST1 and RIPR connect the cytosolic RNA exosome to the SKI complex in Arabidopsis	Exo9, Exosome complex, RNA exosome, RST1, SKI complex, Ski7	The RNA exosome is a key 3'-5' exoribonuclease with an evolutionarily conserved structure and function. Its cytosolic functions require the co-factors SKI7 and the Ski complex. Here we demonstrate by co-purification experiments that the ARM-repeat protein RESURRECTION1 (RST1) and RST1 INTERACTING PROTEIN (RIPR) connect the cytosolic Arabidopsis RNA exosome to the Ski complex. rst1 and ripr mutants accumulate RNA quality control siRNAs (rqc-siRNAs) produced by the post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) machinery when mRNA degradation is compromised. The small RNA populations observed in rst1 and ripr mutants are also detected in mutants lacking the RRP45B/CER7 core exosome subunit. Thus, molecular and genetic evidence supports a physical and functional link between RST1, RIPR and the RNA exosome. Our data reveal the existence of additional cytosolic exosome co-factors besides the known Ski subunits. RST1 is not restricted to plants, as homologues with a similar domain architecture but unknown function exist in animals, including humans.
PXD012749	31460330	Amorphous TiO2 Nanotubes as a Platform for Highly Selective Phosphopeptide Enrichment. 	Amorphous TiO2 Nanotubes as Platform for Highly Selective Phos-phopeptide Enrichment	nanotubes, phosphopeptide enrichment	This work reports highly selective phosphopeptide enrichment using amorphous TiO2 nanotubes (TiO2NTs) and the same material decorated with superparamagnetic Fe3O4 nanoparticles (TiO2NTs@Fe3O4NPs). TiO2NTs and TiO2NTs@Fe3O4NPs materials were applied for phosphopeptide enrichment both from a simple peptide mixture (tryptic digest of bovine serum albumin and alpha-casein) and from a complex peptide mixture (tryptic digest of Jurkat T cell lysate). The obtained enrichment efficiency and selectivity for phosphopeptides of TiO2NTs and TiO2NTs@Fe3O4NPs were increased to 28.7 and 25.3%, respectively, as compared to those of the well-established TiO2 microspheres. The enrichment protocol was extended for a second elution step facilitating the identification of additional phosphopeptides. It further turned out that both types of amorphous TiO2 nanotubes provide qualitatively new physicochemical features that are clearly advantageous for highly selective phosphopeptide enrichment. This has been confirmed experimentally resulting in substantial reduction of non-phosphorylated peptides in the enriched samples. In addition, TiO2NTs@Fe3O4NPs combine high selectivity and ease of handling due to the superparamagnetic character of the material. The presented materials and performances are further promising for applications toward a whole range of other types of biomolecules to be treated in a similar fashion.
PXD013779	31461270	Design and Characterization of SGK3-PROTAC1, an Isoform Specific SGK3 Kinase PROTAC Degrader. 	Characterization of SGK3-PROTAC1, a highly specific SGK3 kinase PROTAC degrader	Degradation, PROTAC, SGK3	SGK3 is a PX domain containing protein kinase activated at endosomes downstream of class 1 and 3 PI3K family members by growth factors and oncogenic mutations. SGK3 plays a key role in mediating resistance of breast cancer cells to class 1 PI3K or Akt inhibitors, by substituting for the loss of Akt activity and restoring proliferative pathways such as mTORC1 signaling. It is therefore critical to develop tools to potently target SGK3 and obstruct its role in inhibitor resistance. Here, we describe the development of SGK3-PROTAC1, a PROTAC conjugate of the 308-R SGK inhibitor with the VH032 VHL binding ligand, targeting SGK3 for degradation.  SGK3-PROTAC1 (0.3 muM) induced 50% degradation of endogenous SGK3 within 2 h, with maximal 80% degradation observed within 8 h, accompanied by a loss of phosphorylation of NDRG1, an SGK3 substrate. SGK3-PROTAC1 did not degrade closely related SGK1 and SGK2 isoforms that are nevertheless engaged and inhibited by 308-R. Proteomic analysis revealed that SGK3 was the only cellular protein whose cellular levels were significantly reduced following treatment with SGK3-PROTAC1. Low doses of SGK3-PROTAC1 (0.1-0.3 muM) restored sensitivity of SGK3 dependent ZR-75-1 and CAMA-1 breast cancer cells to Akt (AZD5363) and PI3K (GDC0941) inhibitors, whereas the cis epimer analogue incapable of binding to the VHL E3 ligase had no impact. SGK3-PROTAC1 suppressed proliferation of ZR-75-1 and CAMA-1 cancer cell lines treated with a PI3K inhibitor (GDC0941) more effectively than could be achieved by a conventional SGK isoform inhibitor (14H). This work underscores the benefit of the PROTAC approach in targeting protein kinase signaling pathways with greater efficacy and selectivity than can be achieved with conventional inhibitors. SGK3-PROTAC1 will be an important reagent to explore the roles of the SGK3 pathway.
PXD010570	31461451	Delineating the role of FANCA in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in beta cells through its protein interactome. 	293FT Cell Endogenous FANCA Protein-Protein Interactions	FANCA, Fanconi Anemia Complementation Group A, Protein-Protein Interaction	Hyperinsulinemia affects 72% of Fanconi anemia (FA) patients and an additional 25% experience lowered glucose tolerance or frank diabetes. The underlying molecular mechanisms contributing to the dysfunction of FA pancreas beta cells is unknown. Therefore, we sought to evaluate the functional role of FANCA, the most commonly mutated gene in FA, in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). This study reveals that FANCA or FANCB knockdown impairs GSIS in human pancreas beta cell line EndoC-betaH3. To identify potential pathways by which FANCA might regulate GSIS, we employed a proteomics approach to identify FANCA protein interactions in EndoC-betaH3 differentially regulated in response to elevated glucose levels. Glucose-dependent changes in the FANCA interaction network were observed, including increased association with other FA family proteins, suggesting an activation of the DNA damage response in response to elevated glucose levels. Reactive oxygen species increase in response to glucose stimulation and are necessary for GSIS in EndoC-betaH3 cells. Glucose-induced activation of the DNA damage response was also observed as an increase in the DNA damage foci marker gamma-H2AX and dependent upon the presence of reactive oxygen species. These results illuminate the role of FANCA in GSIS and its protein interactions regulated by glucose stimulation that may explain the prevalence of beta cell-specific endocrinopathies in FA patients.
PXD013379	31461625	Notch Coordinates Periodontal Ligament Maturation through Regulating Lamin A. 	Core matrisome protein signature during periodontal ligament maturation from pre-occlusal eruption to occlusal function	extracellular matrix, matrisome, occlusal forces, periodontal ligament, tooth eruption	Tooth eruption is a continuous biological process with dynamic changes at cellular and tissue levels, particularly within the periodontal ligament (PDL). Occlusion completion is a significant physiological landmark of dentition establishment. However, the importance of the involvement of molecular networks engaging in occlusion establishment on the final PDL maturation is still largely unknown. In this study, using rat and mouse molar teeth and a human PDL cell line for RNAseq and proteomic analysis, we systematically screened the key molecular links in regulating PDL maturation before and after occlusion establishment. We discovered Notch, a key molecular pathway in regulating stem cell fate and differentiation, is a major player in the event. Intercepting the Notch pathway by deleting its key canonical transcriptional factor, RBP-Jkappa, using a conditional knockout strategy in the mice delayed PDL maturation. We also identified that Lamin A, a cell nuclear lamina member, is a unique marker of PDL maturation, and its expression is under the control of Notch signaling. Our study therefore provides a deep insight of how PDL maturation is regulated at the molecular level, and we expect the outcomes to be applied for a better understanding of the molecular regulation networks in physiological conditions such as tooth eruption and movement and also for periodontal diseases.
PXD014707	31461649	Synthetic Essentiality of Metabolic Regulator PDHK1 in PTEN-Deficient Cells and Cancers. 	Synthetic essentiality of metabolic regulator PDHK1 in PTEN-deficient cells and cancer	NFkB, NKAP, PDHK1, PTEN, cancer, metabolism, protein phosphatase, signaling, synthetic lethality	Phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) is a tumor suppressor and bi-functional lipid and protein phosphatase. We report that the metabolic regulator pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase1 (PDHK1) is a synthetic-essential gene in PTEN-deficient cancer and normal cells. The PTEN protein phosphatase dephosphorylates nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)-activating protein (NKAP) and limits NFkappaB activation to suppress expression of PDHK1, a NF-kappaB target gene. Loss of the PTEN protein phosphatase upregulates PDHK1 to induce aerobic glycolysis and PDHK1 cellular dependence. PTEN-deficient human tumors harbor increased PDHK1, a biomarker of decreased patient survival. This study uncovers a PTEN-regulated signaling pathway and reveals PDHK1 as a potential target in PTEN-deficient cancers.
PXD014110	31461655	The Spatiotemporal Construction of the Axon Initial Segment via KIF3/KAP3/TRIM46 Transport under MARK2 Signaling. 	KAP3 kinase assay	KAP3, kinesin, microtubule	The axon initial segment (AIS) is a compartment that serves as a molecular barrier to achieve axon-dendrite differentiation. Distribution of specific proteins during early neuronal development has been proposed to be critical for AIS construction. However, it remains unknown how these proteins are specifically targeted to the proximal axon within this limited time period. Here, we reveal spatiotemporal regulation driven by the microtubule (MT)-based motor KIF3A/B/KAP3 that transports TRIM46, influenced by a specific MARK2 phosphorylation cascade. In the proximal part of the future axon under low MARK2 activity, the KIF3/KAP3 motor recognizes TRIM46 as cargo and transports it to the future AIS. In contrast, in the somatodendritic area under high MARK2 activity, KAP3 phosphorylated at serine 60 by MARK2 cannot bind with TRIM46 and be transported. This spatiotemporal regulation between KIF3/KAP3 and TRIM46 under specific MARK2 activity underlies the specific transport needed for axonal differentiation.
PXD009787	31462278	Exploring the effects of operational mode and microbial interactions on bacterial community assembly in a one-stage partial-nitritation anammox reactor using integrated multi-omics. 	partial-nitritation anammox reactor	Metaproteomics, anammox, metaproteomics, multi-omics, partial-nitritation	BACKGROUND: The metabolic capacities of anammox bacteria and associated microbial community interactions in partial-nitritation anammox (PNA) reactors have received considerable attention for their crucial roles in energy-efficient nitrogen removal from wastewater. However, a comprehensive understanding of how abiotic and biotic factors shape bacterial community assembly in PNA reactors is not well reported. RESULTS: Here, we used integrated multi-omics (i.e., high-throughput 16S rRNA gene, metagenomic, metatranscriptomic, and metaproteomic sequencing) to reveal how abiotic and biotic factors shape the bacterial community assembly in a lab-scale one-stage PNA reactor treating synthetic wastewater. Analysis results of amplicon sequences (16S rRNA gene) from a time-series revealed distinct relative abundance patterns of the key autotrophic bacteria, i.e., anammox bacteria and ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB), and the associated heterotrophic populations in the seed sludge and the sludge at the new stable state after deterioration. Using shotgun metagenomic sequences of anammox sludge, we recovered 58 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs), including 3 MAGs of anammox bacteria and 3 MAGs of AOB. The integrated metagenomic, metatranscriptomic, and metaproteomic data revealed that nitrogen metabolism is the most active process in the studied PNA reactor. The abundant heterotrophs contribute to the reduction of nitrate to nitrite/ammonium for autotrophic bacteria (anammox bacteria and AOB). Genomic and transcriptomic data revealed that the preference for electron donors of the dominant heterotrophs in different bacterial assemblages (seed and new stable state) varied along with the shift in anammox bacteria that have different metabolic features in terms of EPS composition. Notably, the most abundant heterotrophic bacteria in the reactor were more auxotrophic than the less abundant heterotrophs, regarding the syntheses of amino acids and vitamins. In addition, one of the abundant bacteria observed in the bacterial community exhibited highly transcribed secretion systems (type VI). CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide the first insight that the bacterial communities in the PNA reactor are defined by not only abiotic factors (operating mode) but also metabolic interactions, such as nitrogen metabolism, exchange of electron donors, and auxotrophies.
PXD015023	31462513	Identification of ApoA4 as a sphingosine 1-phosphate chaperone in ApoM- and albumin-deficient mice. 	Identification of novel binding proteins for sphingosine 1-phosphate	plasma	HDL-bound ApoM and albumin are protein chaperones for the circulating bioactive lipid, sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P); in this role, they support essential extracellular S1P signaling functions in the vascular and immune systems. We previously showed that ApoM- and albumin-bound S1P exhibit differences in receptor activation and biological functions. Whether the physiological functions of S1P require chaperones is not clear. We examined ApoM-deficient, albumin-deficient, and double-KO (DKO) mice for circulatory S1P and its biological functions. In albumin-deficient mice, ApoM was upregulated, thus enabling S1P functions in embryonic development and postnatal adult life. The Apom:Alb DKO mice reproduced, were viable, and exhibited largely normal vascular and immune functions, which suggested sufficient extracellular S1P signaling. However, Apom:Alb DKO mice had reduced levels (~25%) of plasma S1P, suggesting that novel S1P chaperones exist to mediate S1P functions. In this study, we report the identification of ApoA4 as a novel S1P binding protein. Recombinant ApoA4 bound to S1P, activated multiple S1P receptors, and promoted vascular endothelial barrier function, all reflective of its function as a S1P chaperone in the absence of ApoM and albumin. We suggest that multiple S1P chaperones evolved to support complex and essential extracellular signaling functions of this lysolipid mediator in a redundant manner.
PXD012287	31462662	Latent-period stool proteomic assay of multiple sclerosis model indicates protective capacity of host-expressed protease inhibitors. 	Stool proteome of EAE mice prior to physical symtoms but after immunization	EAE, MS, Metaproteomics, TMT, host gut microbiome, metaproteome, microbiome, multiple sclerosis, shotgun proteomics	Diseases are often diagnosed once overt symptoms arise, ignoring the prior latent period when effective prevention may be possible. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model for multiple sclerosis, exhibits such disease latency, but the molecular processes underlying this asymptomatic period remain poorly characterized. Gut microbes also influence EAE severity, yet their impact on the latent period remains unknown. Here, we show the latent period between immunization and EAE's overt symptom onset is characterized by distinct host responses as measured by stool proteomics. In particular, we found a transient increase in protease inhibitors that inversely correlated with disease severity. Vancomycin administration attenuated both EAE symptoms and protease inhibitor induction potentially by decreasing immune system reactivity, supporting a subset of the microbiota's role in modulating the host's latent period response. These results strengthen previous evidence of proteases and their inhibitors in EAE and highlight the utility stool-omics for revealing complex, dynamic biology.
PXD010597	31462798	Metastatic-niche labelling reveals parenchymal cells with stem features. 	A novel labelling strategy enables spatial resolution of metastatic niche cellular composition and uncovers lung stem cell activity proximal to breast cancer	lung, metastasis, tumour microenvironment	Direct investigation of the early cellular changes induced by metastatic cells within the surrounding tissue remains a challenge. Here we present a system in which metastatic cancer cells release a cell-penetrating fluorescent protein, which is taken up by neighbouring cells and enables spatial identification of the local metastatic cellular environment. Using this system, tissue cells with low representation in the metastatic niche can be identified and characterized within the bulk tissue. To highlight its potential, we applied this strategy to study the cellular environment of metastatic breast cancer cells in the lung. We report the presence of cancer-associated parenchymal cells, which exhibit stem-cell-like features, expression of lung progenitor markers, multi-lineage differentiation potential and self-renewal activity. In ex vivo assays, lung epithelial cells acquire a cancer-associated parenchymal-cell-like phenotype when co-cultured with cancer cells and support their growth. These results highlight the potential of this method as a platform for new discoveries.
PXD013296	31462935	A human endogenous retrovirus encoded protease potentially cleaves numerous cellular proteins. 	A human endogenous retrovirus encoded protease potentially cleaves numerous cellular proteins	Proteolysis, retrovirus	BACKGROUND: A considerable portion of the human genome derives from retroviruses inherited over millions of years. Human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs) are usually severely mutated, yet some coding-competent HERVs exist. The HERV-K(HML-2) group includes evolutionarily young proviruses that encode typical retroviral proteins. HERV-K(HML-2) has been implicated in various human diseases because transcription is often upregulated and some of its encoded proteins are known to affect cell biology. HERV-K(HML-2) Protease (Pro) has received little attention so far, although it is expressed in some disease contexts and other retroviral proteases are known to process cellular proteins. RESULTS: We set out to identify human cellular proteins that are substrates of HERV-K(HML-2) Pro employing a modified Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS) procedure. Thousands of human proteins were identified by this assay as significantly processed by HERV-K(HML-2) Pro at both acidic and neutral pH. We confirmed cleavage of a majority of selected human proteins in vitro and in co-expression experiments in vivo. Sizes of processing products observed for some of the tested proteins coincided with product sizes predicted by TAILS. Processed proteins locate to various cellular compartments and participate in diverse, often disease-relevant cellular processes. A limited number of HERV-K(HML-2) reference and non-reference loci appears capable of encoding active Pro. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings from an approach combining TAILS with experimental verification of candidate proteins in vitro and in cultured cells suggest that hundreds of cellular proteins are potential substrates of HERV-K(HML-2) Pro. It is therefore conceivable that even low-level expression of HERV-K(HML-2) Pro affects levels of a diverse array of proteins and thus has a functional impact on cell biology and possible relevance for human diseases. Further studies are indicated to elucidate effects of HERV-K(HML-2) Pro expression regarding human substrate proteins, cell biology, and disease. The latter also calls for studies on expression of specific HERV-K(HML-2) loci capable of encoding active Pro. Endogenous retrovirus-encoded Pro activity may also be relevant for disease development in species other than human.
PXD012316	31464372	Elucidating essential kinases of endothelin signalling by logic modelling of phosphoproteomics data. 	Phosphoproteomics of endothelin signalling	endothelin, phosphoproteomics, signalling	Endothelins (EDN) are peptide hormones that activate a GPCR signalling system and contribute to several diseases, including hypertension and cancer. Current knowledge about EDN signalling is fragmentary, and no systems level understanding is available. We investigated phosphoproteomic changes caused by endothelin B receptor (ENDRB) activation in the melanoma cell lines UACC257 and A2058 and built an integrated model of EDNRB signalling from the phosphoproteomics data. More than 5,000 unique phosphopeptides were quantified. EDN induced quantitative changes in more than 800 phosphopeptides, which were all strictly dependent on EDNRB. Activated kinases were identified based on high confidence EDN target sites and validated by Western blot. The data were combined with prior knowledge to construct the first comprehensive logic model of EDN signalling. Among the kinases predicted by the signalling model, AKT, JNK, PKC and AMP could be functionally linked to EDN-induced cell migration. The model contributes to the system-level understanding of the mechanisms underlying the pleiotropic effects of EDN signalling and supports the rational selection of kinase inhibitors for combination treatments with EDN receptor antagonists.
PXD013658	31465043	Surpassing 10 000 identified and quantified proteins in a single run by optimizing current LC-MS instrumentation and data analysis strategy. 	Surpassing 10,000 identified and quantified proteins in a single run by optimizing current LC-MS instrumentation and data analysis strategy	DIA, hybrid library, liquid chromatography, testis cancer	Comprehensive proteome quantification is crucial for a better understanding of underlying mechanisms of diseases. Liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) has become the method of choice for comprehensive proteome quantification due to its power and versatility. Even though great advances have been made in recent years, full proteome coverage for complex samples remains challenging due to the high dynamic range of protein expression. Additionally, when studying disease regulatory proteins, biomarkers or potential drug targets are often low abundant, such as for instance kinases and transcription factors. Here, we show that with improvements in chromatography and data analysis the single shot proteome coverage can go beyond 10 000 proteins in human tissue. In a testis cancer study, we quantified 11 200 proteins using data independent acquisition (DIA). This depth was achieved with a false discovery rate of 1% which was experimentally validated using a two species test. We introduce the concept of hybrid libraries which combines the strength of direct searching of DIA data as well as the use of large project-specific or published DDA data sets. Remarkably deep proteome coverage is possible using hybrid libraries without the additional burden of creating a project-specific library. Within the testis cancer set, we found a large proportion of proteins in an altered expression (in total: 3351; 1453 increased in cancer). Many of these proteins could be linked to the hallmarks of cancer. For example, the complement system was downregulated which helps to evade the immune response and chromosomal replication was upregulated indicating a dysregulated cell cycle.
PXD013859	31465861	XPO1 is a critical player for bortezomib resistance in multiple myeloma: A quantitative proteomic approach. 	XPO1 is a critical player for Bortezomib resistance in Multiple Myeloma: A quantitative proteomic approach	Bortezomib, Chemoresistance, Label free analysis, Multiple myeloma, XPO1, iTRAQ	Among the blood cancers, 13% mortality is caused by Multiple myeloma (MM) type of hematological malignancy. In spite of therapeutic advances in chemotherapy treatment, still MM remains an incurable disease is mainly due to emergence of chemoresistance. At present time, FDA approved bortezomib is the first line drug for MM treatment. However, like other chemotherapy, MM patients are acquiring resistance against bortezomib. The present study aims to identify and validate bortezomib resistant protein targets in MM using iTRAQ and label free quantitative proteomic approaches. 112 differentially expressed proteins were commonly found in both approaches with similar differential expression pattern. Exportin-1 (XPO1) protein was selected for further validation as its significant high expression was observed in both iTRAQ and label free analysis. Bioinformatic analysis of these common differentially expressed proteins showed a clear cluster of proteins such as SMC1A, RCC2, CSE1, NUP88, NUP50, TPR, HSPA14, DYNLL1, RAD21 and RANBP2 being associated with XPO1. Functional studies like cell count assay, flow cytometry assay and soft agar assay proved that XPO1 knock down in RPMI 8226R cell line results in re-sensitization to bortezomib drug. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013859. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Multiple myeloma (MM) is a type of hematological malignancy which constitutes about 13% of all blood cell related malignancies. Chemoresistance is one of the major obstacles for the successful treatment for MM. Bortezomib is a first proteasome inhibitor drug, widely used in MM treatment. The present study aims to identify and validate bortezomib resistant protein targets in MM. Here, we identified 112 candidate proteins to be associated with bortezomib resistance using global quantitative proteomic analysis. Among these candidate proteins, we show that XPO1 plays crucial role in emerging bortezomib resistance using functional studies like cell count assay, flow cytometry assay and soft agar assay. XPO1 could be a potential therapeutic target for MM and development of inhibitors of XPO1 might help to cure MM.
PXD011555	31465862	An "omic" approach to Pyrocystis lunula: New insights related with this bioluminescent dinoflagellate. 	A omic approach to Pyrocystis lunula	LBP, Pyrocystis lunula, bioluminiscence, transcriptomics	Pyrocystis lunula (Schutt) is a photoautotrophic dinoflagellate without armored form, frequently found in marine environments. Today, there are several biotechnological applications derived from the bioluminescent system of this species. From a post-genomic perspective, in order to have a starting point for studying the proteome of P. lunula, an "omics" approach (transcriptomics-proteomics) was assessed using fresh microalgae samples. A total of 80,874,825 raw reads were generated (11,292,087,505 bp; 55.82% GC) by mRNA sequencing. Very high-quality sequences were assembled into 414,295 contigs (219,203,407 bp; 55.38% GC) using Trinity software, generating a comprehensive reference transcriptome for this species. Then, a P. lunula proteome was inferred and further employed for its analysis on this species. A total of 17,461 peptides were identified, yielding 3182 protein identification hits, including 175 novel proteins. The identified proteins were further categorized according to functional description and gene ontology classification. SIGNIFICANCE: The major contribution of the present work is making available a reference transcriptome and proteome of P. lunula, that is now accessible for the research community, and a functional description of the 3182 proteins inferred from the transcriptome, including 175 novel proteins, which have already been deposited in the ProteomeXchange and NCBI SRA databases, respectively. In addition to this, a series of important factors related to the bioluminescent system and the regulation of gene expression, were identified and described.
PXD006600	31467032	Enhanced Salt Tolerance of Rhizobia-inoculated Soybean Correlates with Decreased Phosphorylation of the Transcription Factor GmMYB183 and Altered Flavonoid Biosynthesis. 	Soybean, root-rhizobia, LC-MSMS	Soybean, root-rhizobia	Soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merrill) is an important component of the human diet and animal feed, but soybean production is limited by abiotic stresses especially salinity. We recently found that rhizobia inoculation enhances soybean tolerance to salt stress, but the underlying mechanisms are unaddressed. Here, we used quantitative phosphoproteomic and metabonomic approaches to identify changes in phosphoproteins and metabolites in soybean roots treated with rhizobia inoculation and salt. Results revealed differential regulation of 800 phosphopeptides, at least 32 of these phosphoproteins or their homologous were reported be involved in flavonoid synthesis or trafficking, and 27 out of 32 are transcription factors. We surveyed the functional impacts of all these 27 transcription factors by expressing their phospho-mimetic/ablative mutants in the roots of composite soybean plants and found that phosphorylation of GmMYB183 could affect the salt tolerance of the transgenic roots. Using data mining, ChIP and EMSA, we found that GmMYB183 binds to the promoter of the soybean GmCYP81E11 gene encoding for a Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase which contributes to the accumulation of ononin, a monohydroxy B-ring flavonoid that negatively regulates soybean tolerance to salinity. Phosphorylation of GmMYB183 was inhibited by rhizobia inoculation; overexpression of GmMYB183 enhanced the expression of GmCYP81E11 and rendered salt sensitivity to the transgenic roots; plants deficient in GmMYB183 function are more tolerant to salt stress as compared with wild-type soybean plants, these results correlate with the transcriptional induction of GmCYP81E11 by GmMYB183 and the subsequent accumulation of ononin. Our findings provide molecular insights into how rhizobia enhance salt tolerance of soybean plants.
PXD012130	31467290	A dataset describing a suite of novel antibody reagents for the RAS signaling network. 	A dataset describing a suite of novel antibody reagents for the RAS signaling network	AP-MS, Monoclonal antibody generation, RAS, SDS-PAGE, in-gel digestion	RAS genes are frequently mutated in cancer and have for decades eluded effective therapeutic attack. The National Cancer Institute's RAS Initiative has a focus on understanding pathways and discovering therapies for RAS-driven cancers. Part of these efforts is the generation of novel reagents to enable the quantification of RAS network proteins. Here we present a dataset describing the development, validation (following consensus principles developed by the broader research community), and distribution of 104 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) enabling detection of 27 phosphopeptides and 69 unmodified peptides from 20 proteins in the RAS network. The dataset characterizes the utility of the antibodies in a variety of applications, including Western blotting, immunoprecipitation, protein array, immunohistochemistry, and targeted mass spectrometry. All antibodies and characterization data are publicly available through the CPTAC Antibody Portal, Panorama Public Repository, and/or PRIDE databases. These reagents will aid researchers in discerning pathways and measuring expression changes in the RAS signaling network.
PXD007988	31469364	Composition and structure of synaptic ectosomes exporting antigen receptor linked to functional CD40 ligand from helper T cells. 	Composition and structure of synaptic ectosomes exporting antigen receptor linked to functional CD40 ligand from helper T cells	Exosomes	Planar supported lipid bilayers (PSLB) presenting T cell receptor (TCR) ligands and ICAM-1 induce budding of extracellular microvesicles enriched in functional TCR, defined here as synaptic ectosomes (SE), from helper T cells. SE bind peptide-MHC directly exporting TCR into the synaptic cleft, but incorporation of other effectors is unknown. Here, we utilized bead supported lipid bilayers (BSLB) to capture SE from single immunological synapses (IS), determined SE composition by immunofluorescence flow cytometry and enriched SE for proteomic analysis by particle sorting. We demonstrate selective enrichment of CD40L and ICOS in SE in response to addition of CD40 and ICOSL, respectively, to SLB presenting TCR ligands and ICAM-1. SE are enriched in tetraspanins, BST-2, TCR signaling and ESCRT proteins. Super-resolution microscopy demonstrated that CD40L is present in microclusters within CD81 defined SE that are spatially segregated from TCR/ICOS/BST-2. CD40L(+) SE retain the capacity to induce dendritic cell maturation and cytokine production.
PXD012821	31471496	Sensitive Determination of Proteolytic Proteoforms in Limited Microscale Proteome Samples. 	Optimization of HUNTER N-termini profiling using Arabidopsis thaliana Col-8 wt leaf proteome extracts	HUNTER N-termini Arabidopsis thaliana Col-8	Protein N termini unambiguously identify truncated, alternatively translated or modified proteoforms with distinct functions and reveal perturbations in disease. Selective enrichment of N-terminal peptides is necessary to achieve proteome-wide coverage for unbiased identification of site-specific regulatory proteolytic processing and protease substrates. However, many proteolytic processes are strictly confined in time and space and therefore can only be analyzed in minute samples that provide insufficient starting material for current enrichment protocols. Here we present High-efficiency Undecanal-based N Termini EnRichment (HUNTER), a robust, sensitive and scalable method for the analysis of previously inaccessible microscale samples. HUNTER achieved identification of >1000 N termini from as little as 2 mug raw HeLa cell lysate. Broad applicability is demonstrated by the first N-terminome analysis of sorted human primary immune cells and enriched mitochondrial fractions from pediatric cancer patients, as well as protease substrate identification from individual Arabidopsis thaliana wild type and Vacuolar Processing Enzyme-deficient mutant seedlings. We further implemented the workflow on a liquid handling system and demonstrate the feasibility of clinical degradomics by automated processing of liquid biopsies from pediatric cancer patients.
PXD013069	31474002	Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MALDI MSI) for Monitoring of Drug Response in Primary Cancer Spheroids. 	Spheroids treated with and without Drug	Spheroids	Malignant ascites is a fluid, which builds up in the abdomen and contains cancer cells in the form of single cells or multicellular clusters called spheroids. Malignant ascites has been observed in patients suffering from ovarian, cervical, gastric, colorectal, pancreatic, endometrial, or primary liver cancer. The spheroids are believed to play a major role in chemo resistance and metastasis of the cancer. To ease the discomfort of patients, malignant ascites (MA) is often drained from the abdomen using a procedure called paracentesis. MA retrieved via this minimal invasive procedure is a great source for cancer spheroids, which can be used for testing chemotherapeutic drugs and drug combinations. Herein, the existing workflow is adapted to make concurrent monitoring of drug accumulation, drug response, and drug metabolites feasible using primary spheroids or spheroids grown without a scaffolding matrix. To achieve this, those spheroids are embedded in matrigel, before fixing them with formalin. This makes it possible to process, store, and ship samples at room temperature. This new approach might be used to choose the best targeted therapy for each patient and thereby facilitate personalized medicine.
PXD013685	31474508	Feedback-Driven Assembly of the Axon Initial Segment. 	MS analysis of purified TRIM46, 480AnkG and 480AnkG-NN.	AP-MS, AnkG., Purification, TRIM46	The axon initial segment (AIS) is a unique neuronal compartment that plays a crucial role in the generation of action potential and neuronal polarity. The assembly of the AIS requires membrane, scaffolding, and cytoskeletal proteins, including Ankyrin-G and TRIM46. How these components cooperate in AIS formation is currently poorly understood. Here, we show that Ankyrin-G acts as a scaffold interacting with End-Binding (EB) proteins and membrane proteins such as Neurofascin-186 to recruit TRIM46-positive microtubules to the plasma membrane. Using in vitro reconstitution and cellular assays, we demonstrate that TRIM46 forms parallel microtubule bundles and stabilizes them by acting as a rescue factor. TRIM46-labeled microtubules drive retrograde transport of Neurofascin-186 to the proximal axon, where Ankyrin-G prevents its endocytosis, resulting in stable accumulation of Neurofascin-186 at the AIS. Neurofascin-186 enrichment in turn reinforces membrane anchoring of Ankyrin-G and subsequent recruitment of TRIM46-decorated microtubules. Our study reveals feedback-based mechanisms driving AIS assembly.
PXD010550	31474963	A Robust and Universal Metaproteomics Workflow for Research Studies and Routine Diagnostics Within 24 h Using Phenol Extraction, FASP Digest, and the MetaProteomeAnalyzer. 	A robust and universal metaproteomics workflow for research studies and routine diagnostics within 24 hours	Bioinformatics, Environmental proteomics, Metaproteomics, Microbial communities, Sample preparation, Software	The investigation of microbial proteins by mass spectrometry (metaproteomics) is a key technology for simultaneously assessing the taxonomic composition and the functionality of microbial communities in medical, environmental, and biotechnological applications. We present an improved metaproteomics workflow using an updated sample preparation and a new version of the MetaProteomeAnalyzer software for data analysis. High resolution by multidimensional separation (GeLC, MudPIT) was sacrificed to aim at fast analysis of a broad range of different samples in less than 24 h. The improved workflow generated at least two times as many protein identifications than our previous workflow, and a drastic increase of taxonomic and functional annotations. Improvements of all aspects of the workflow, particularly the speed, are first steps toward potential routine clinical diagnostics (i.e., fecal samples) and analysis of technical and environmental samples. The MetaProteomeAnalyzer is provided to the scientific community as a central remote server solution at www.mpa.ovgu.de.
PXD014768	31475403	Protective Cellular Mechanism of Estrogen Against Kidney Stone Formation: A Proteomics Approach and Functional Validation. 	Protective cellular mechanism of estrogen against kidney stone formation: A proteomics approach and functional validation	Estradiol, Female, Gender, Hormone, Kidney stone, Nephrolithiasis	Females have less incidence/prevalence of kidney stone disease than males. Estrogen thus may serve as the protective factor but with unclear mechanism. This study explores cellular mechanism underlying such stone preventive mechanism of estrogen. Madin darby canine kidney (MDCK) renal tubular cells are incubated with or without 20 nm 17beta-estradiol for 7 days. Comparative proteomics reveals 58 differentially expressed proteins in estrogen-treated versus control cells that are successfully identified by nanoLC-ESI-Q-TOF-MS/MS. Interestingly, these altered proteins are involved mainly in "binding and receptor," "metabolic process," and "migration and healing" networks. Functional investigations demonstrate reduction of calcium oxalate (CaOx) crystal-binding capability of the estrogen-treated cells consistent with the decreased levels of annexin A1 and alpha-enolase (the known CaOx crystal-binding receptors) on the cell surface. High-calcium and high-oxalate challenge initially enhances surface expression of annexin A1 and alpha-enolase, respectively, both of which return to their basal levels by estrogen. Additionally, estrogen reduces intracellular ATP level and promotes cell migration and tissue healing. Taken together, estrogen causes changes in cellular proteome of renal tubular cells that lead to decreased surface expression of CaOx crystal receptors, reduced intracellular metabolism, and enhanced cell proliferation and tissue healing, all of which may contribute, at least in part, to stone prevention.
PXD015143	31475827	Common Repository of FBS Proteins (cRFP) To Be Added to a Search Database for Mass Spectrometric Analysis of Cell Secretome. 	Common Repository of FBS Proteins (cRFP) to be added to a search database for mass spectrometric analysis of cell secretome	Secretome, common repository of FBS proteins, database search	We propose to use cRFP (common Repository of FBS Proteins) in the MS (mass spectrometry) raw data search of cell secretomes. cRFP is a small supplementary sequence list of highly abundant fetal bovine serum proteins added to the reference database in use. The aim behind using cRFP is to prevent the contaminant FBS proteins from being misidentified as other proteins in the reference database, just as we would use cRAP (common Repository of Adventitious Proteins) to prevent contaminant proteins present either by accident or through unavoidable contacts from being misidentified as other proteins. We expect it to be widely used in experiments where the proteins are obtained from serum-free media after thorough washing of the cells, or from a complex media such as SILAC, or from extracellular vesicles directly.
PXD013470	31477705	CryoEM structures of Arabidopsis DDR complexes involved in RNA-directed DNA methylation. 	CryoEM Structures of Arabidopsis DDR Complexes Involved in RNA-directed DNA Methylation	ADH, Chemical cross-linking, DDR complex, DMTMM, DSS, structural proteomics	Transcription by RNA polymerase V (Pol V) in plants is required for RNA-directed DNA methylation, leading to transcriptional gene silencing. Global chromatin association of Pol V requires components of the DDR complex DRD1, DMS3 and RDM1, but the assembly process of this complex and the underlying mechanism for Pol V recruitment remain unknown. Here we show that all DDR complex components co-localize with Pol V, and we report the cryoEM structures of two complexes associated with Pol V recruitment-DR (DMS3-RDM1) and DDR' (DMS3-RDM1-DRD1 peptide), at 3.6 Aa and 3.5 Aa resolution, respectively. RDM1 dimerization at the center frames the assembly of the entire complex and mediates interactions between DMS3 and DRD1 with a stoichiometry of 1 DRD1:4 DMS3:2 RDM1. DRD1 binding to the DR complex induces a drastic movement of a DMS3 coiled-coil helix bundle. We hypothesize that both complexes are functional intermediates that mediate Pol V recruitment.
PXD012341	31477730	Improving mass spectrometry analysis of protein structures with arginine-selective chemical cross-linkers. 	Improving Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Protein Structures with Arginine-Selective Chemical Cross-linkers	Arginine-Selective Cross-linkers, CXMS	Chemical cross-linking of proteins coupled with mass spectrometry analysis (CXMS) is widely used to study protein-protein interactions (PPI), protein structures, and even protein dynamics. However, structural information provided by CXMS is still limited, partly because most CXMS experiments use lysine-lysine (K-K) cross-linkers. Although superb in selectivity and reactivity, they are ineffective for lysine deficient regions. Herein, we develop aromatic glyoxal cross-linkers (ArGOs) for arginine-arginine (R-R) cross-linking and the lysine-arginine (K-R) cross-linker KArGO. The R-R or K-R cross-links generated by ArGO or KArGO fit well with protein crystal structures and provide information not attainable by K-K cross-links. KArGO, in particular, is highly valuable for CXMS, with robust performance on a variety of samples including a kinase and two multi-protein complexes. In the case of the CNGP complex, KArGO cross-links covered as much of the PPI interface as R-R and K-K cross-links combined and improved the accuracy of Rosetta docking substantially.
PXD013736	31477734	Acetyl-CoA flux regulates the proteome and acetyl-proteome to maintain intracellular metabolic crosstalk. 	Acetyl-CoA flux regulates the proteome and acetyl-proteome to maintain intracellular metabolic crosstalk	Liver, suborganelle	AT-1/SLC33A1 is a key member of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) acetylation machinery, transporting acetyl-CoA from the cytosol into the ER lumen where acetyl-CoA serves as the acetyl-group donor for Nepsilon-lysine acetylation. Dysfunctional ER acetylation, as caused by heterozygous or homozygous mutations as well as gene duplication events of AT-1/SLC33A1, has been linked to both developmental and degenerative diseases. Here, we investigate two models of AT-1 dysregulation and altered acetyl-CoA flux: AT-1(S113R/+) mice, a model of AT-1 haploinsufficiency, and AT-1 sTg mice, a model of AT-1 overexpression. The animals display distinct metabolic adaptation across intracellular compartments, including reprogramming of lipid metabolism and mitochondria bioenergetics. Mechanistically, the perturbations to AT-1-dependent acetyl-CoA flux result in global and specific changes in both the proteome and the acetyl-proteome (protein acetylation). Collectively, our results suggest that AT-1 acts as an important metabolic regulator that maintains acetyl-CoA homeostasis by promoting functional crosstalk between different intracellular organelles.
PXD013811	31477750	HSP60-regulated Mitochondrial Proteostasis and Protein Translation Promote Tumor Growth of Ovarian Cancer. 	OC-MS/MS -  HSP60-regulated Mitochondrial Proteostasis and Protein Translation Promote Tumor Growth of Ovarian Cancer	MS/MS, OC	Ovarian cancer (OC) is the most lethal gynecological carcinoma due to the lack of diagnostic markers and effective drug targets. Discovery of new therapeutic targets in OC to improve the treatment outcome is urgently needed. We performed proteomic analysis of OC specimens and the paired normal tissues and revealed that proteins associated with mitochondrial proteostasis and protein translation were highly expressed in ovarian tumor tissues, indicating that mitochondria are required for tumor progression of OC. Heat shock protein 60 (HSP60), an important mitochondrial chaperone, was upregulated in ovarian tumors. HSP60 silencing significantly attenuated growth of OC cells in both cells and mice xenografts. Proteomic analysis revealed that HSP60 silencing downregulated proteins involved in mitochondrial functions and protein synthesis. Metabolomic analysis revealed that HSP60 silencing resulted in a more than 100-fold increase in cellular adenine levels, leading to increased adenosine monophosphate and an activated AMPK pathway, and consequently reduced mTORC1-mediated S6K and 4EBP1 phosphorylation to inhibit protein synthesis that suppressed the proliferation of OC cells. These results suggest that HSP60 knockdown breaks mitochondrial proteostasis, and inactivates the mTOR pathway to inhibit OC progression, suggesting that HSP60 is a potential therapeutic target for OC treatment.
PXD015004	31479585	The MyMOMA domain of MYO19 encodes for distinct Miro-dependent and Miro-independent mechanisms of interaction with mitochondrial membranes. 	MYO19 interacts weakly with Miro2 GTPases on the mitochondrial outer membrane	APMS, BioID2, HeLa, MYO19, mitochondria	MYO19 interacts with mitochondria through a C-terminal membrane association domain (MyMOMA). Specific mechanisms for localization of MYO19 to mitochondria are poorly understood. Using promiscuous biotinylation data in combination with existing affinity-capture databases, we have identified a number of putative MYO19-interacting proteins. We chose to explore the interaction between MYO19 and the mitochondrial GTPase Miro2 by expressing mchr-Miro2 in combination with GFP-tagged fragments of the MyMOMA domain and assaying for recruitment of MYO19-GFP to mitochondria. Coexpression of MYO19(898-970) -GFP with mchr-Miro2 enhanced MYO19(898-970) -GFP localization to mitochondria. Mislocalizing Miro2 to filopodial tips or the cytosolic face of the nuclear envelope did not recruit MYO19(898-970) -GFP to either location. To address the kinetics of the Miro2/MYO19 interaction, we used FRAP analysis and permeabilization-activated reduction in fluorescence analysis. MyMOMA constructs containing a putative membrane-insertion motif but lacking the Miro2-interacting region displayed slow exchange kinetics. MYO19(898-970) -GFP, which does not include the membrane-insertion motif, displayed rapid exchange kinetics, suggesting that MYO19 interacting with Miro2 has higher mobility than MYO19 inserted into the mitochondrial outer membrane. Mutation of well-conserved, charged residues within MYO19 or within the switch I and II regions of Miro2 abolished the enhancement of MYO19(898-970) -GFP localization in cells ectopically expressing mchr-Miro2. Additionally, expressing mutant versions of Miro2 thought to represent particular nucleotide states indicated that the enhancement of MYO19(898-970) -GFP localization is dependent on Miro2 nucleotide state. Taken together, these data suggest that membrane-inserted MYO19 is part of a larger complex, and that Miro2 plays a role in integration of actin- and microtubule-based mitochondrial activities.
PXD013746	31481025	Transcriptomic and phosphoproteomic profiling and metabolite analyses reveal the mechanism of NaHCO3-induced organic acid secretion in grapevine roots. 	Transcriptomic and phosphoproteomic profiling and metabolite analyses reveal the mechanism of NaHCO3-induced organic acid secretion in grapevine roots	alkali stress, grapevine, organic acid secretion, phosphoproteome, transcriptome	BACKGROUND: Organic acid secretion is a widespread physiological response of plants to alkalinity. However, the characteristics and underlying mechanism of the alkali-induced secretion of organic acids are poorly understood. RESULTS: Oxalate was the main organic acid synthesized and secreted in grapevine (a hybrid of Vitis amurensis, V. berlandieri and V. riparia) roots, while acetate synthesis and malate secretion were also promoted under NaHCO3 stress. NaHCO3 stress enhanced the H(+) efflux rate of grapevine roots, which is related to the plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase activity. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that carbohydrate metabolism was the most significantly altered biological process under NaHCO3 stress; a total of seven genes related to organic acid metabolism were significantly altered, including two phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylases and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinases. Additionally, the expression levels of five ATP-binding cassette transporters, particularly ATP-binding cassette B19, and two Al-activated malate transporter 2 s were substantially upregulated by NaHCO3 stress. Phosphoproteomic profiling demonstrated that the altered phosphoproteins were primarily related to binding, catalytic activity and transporter activity in the context of their molecular functions. The phosphorylation levels of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase 3, two plasma membrane H(+)-ATPases 4 and ATP-binding cassette B19 and pleiotropic drug resistance 12 were significantly increased. Additionally, the inhibition of ethylene synthesis and perception completely blocked NaHCO3-induced organic acid secretion, while the inhibition of indoleacetic acid synthesis reduced NaHCO3-induced organic acid secretion. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated that oxalate was the main organic acid produced under alkali stress and revealed the necessity of ethylene in mediating organic acid secretion. Additionally, we further identified several candidate genes and phosphoproteins responsible for organic acid metabolism and secretion.
PXD014071	31481099	Impact of poly(A)-tail G-content on Arabidopsis PAB binding and their role in enhancing translational efficiency. 	Quantitative proteomics of Col and AtPABs mutant	binding efficiency, poly(A)-binding proteins, translationa	BACKGROUND: Polyadenylation plays a key role in producing mature mRNAs in eukaryotes. It is widely believed that the poly(A)-binding proteins (PABs) uniformly bind to poly(A)-tailed mRNAs, regulating their stability and translational efficiency. RESULTS: We observe that the homozygous triple mutant of broadly expressed Arabidopsis thaliana PABs, AtPAB2, AtPAB4, and AtPAB8, is embryonic lethal. To understand the molecular basis, we characterize the RNA-binding landscape of these PABs. The AtPAB-binding efficiency varies over one order of magnitude among genes. To identify the sequences accounting for the variation, we perform poly(A)-seq that directly sequences the full-length poly(A) tails. More than 10% of poly(A) tails contain at least one guanosine (G); among them, the G-content varies from 0.8 to 28%. These guanosines frequently divide poly(A) tails into interspersed A-tracts and therefore cause the variation in the AtPAB-binding efficiency among genes. Ribo-seq and genome-wide RNA stability assays show that AtPAB-binding efficiency of a gene is positively correlated with translational efficiency rather than mRNA stability. Consistently, genes with stronger AtPAB binding exhibit a greater reduction in translational efficiency when AtPAB is depleted. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a new mechanism that translational efficiency of a gene can be regulated through the G-content-dependent PAB binding, paving the way for a better understanding of poly(A) tail-associated regulation of gene expression.
PXD014373	31481524	The induction of HAD-like phosphatases by multiple signaling pathways confers resistance to the metabolic inhibitor 2-deoxyglucose. 	Proteomic response of yeast cells to 2-deoxyglucose exposure (0.2%, 2.5h)	2-deoxyglucose, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Anti-cancer strategies that target the glycolytic metabolism of tumors have been proposed. The glucose analog 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) is imported into cells and, after phosphorylation, becomes 2DG-6-phosphate, a toxic by-product that inhibits glycolysis. Using yeast as a model, we performed an unbiased mass spectrometry-based approach to probe the cellular effects of 2DG on the proteome and study resistance mechanisms to 2DG. We found that two phosphatases that target 2DG-6-phosphate were induced upon exposure to 2DG and participated in 2DG detoxification. Dog1 and Dog2 are HAD (haloacid dehalogenase)-like phosphatases, which are evolutionarily conserved. 2DG induced Dog2 by activating several signaling pathways, such as the stress response pathway mediated by the p38 MAPK ortholog Hog1, the unfolded protein response (UPR) triggered by 2DG-induced ER stress, and the cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway mediated by the MAPK Slt2. Loss of the UPR or CWI pathways led to 2DG hypersensitivity. In contrast, mutants impaired in the glucose-mediated repression of genes were 2DG resistant because glucose availability transcriptionally repressed DOG2 by inhibiting signaling mediated by the AMPK ortholog Snf1. The characterization and genome resequencing of spontaneous 2DG-resistant mutants revealed that DOG2 overexpression was a common strategy underlying 2DG resistance. The human Dog2 homolog HDHD1 displayed phosphatase activity toward 2DG-6-phosphate in vitro and its overexpression conferred 2DG resistance in HeLa cells, suggesting that this 2DG phosphatase could interfere with 2DG-based chemotherapies. These results show that HAD-like phosphatases are evolutionarily conserved regulators of 2DG resistance.
PXD014173	31482721	Polyubiquitin Chains Linked by Lysine Residue 48 (K48) Selectively Target Oxidized Proteins In Vivo. 	K48 ubiquitin selectively targets oxidized proteins in vivo	K48 ubiquitin, oxidation, oxidative stress	Aims: Ubiquitin is a highly conserved protein modifier that heavily accumulates during the oxidative stress response. Here, we investigated the role of the ubiquitination system, particularly at the linkage level, in the degradation of oxidized proteins. The function of ubiquitin in the removal of oxidized proteins remains elusive because of the wide range of potential targets and different roles that polyubiquitin chains play. Therefore, we describe in detail the dynamics of the K48 ubiquitin response as the canonical signal for protein degradation. We identified ubiquitin targets and defined the relationship between protein ubiquitination and oxidation during the stress response. Results: Combining oxidized protein isolation, linkage-specific ubiquitination screens, and quantitative proteomics, we found that K48 ubiquitin accumulated at both the early and late phases of the stress response. We further showed that a fraction of oxidized proteins are conjugated with K48 ubiquitin. We identified ~750 ubiquitinated proteins and ~400 oxidized proteins that were modified during oxidative stress, and around half of which contain both modifications. These proteins were highly abundant and function in translation and energy metabolism. Innovation and Conclusion: Our work showed for the first time that K48 ubiquitin modifies a large fraction of oxidized proteins, demonstrating that oxidized proteins can be targeted by the ubiquitin/proteasome system. We suggest that oxidized proteins that rapidly accumulate during stress are subsequently ubiquitinated and degraded during the late phase of the response. This delay between oxidation and ubiquitination may be necessary for reprogramming protein dynamics, restoring proteostasis, and resuming cell growth.
PXD013173	31483678	Global Proteomic Analysis of Lysine Succinylation in Zebrafish (Danio rerio). 	Global Proteomic Analysis of Lysine Succinylation in Zebrafish (Danio rerio)	Zebrafish larvae, lysine succinylation	Lysine succinylation (Ksu) is a novel identified post-translational modification that is conserved from prokaryotes to eukaryotes. As a kind of acylation, Ksu was reported to have different functions than other acylations at lysine residues. However, recent studies on Ksu have mainly focused on plants and bacteria. Ksu studies in vertebrates are still rare; thus, the biological function of Ksu in mammals needs to be studied further. In this study, we performed global Ksu mapping in Danio rerio (zebrafish) using mass spectrometry-based proteomics with the enrichment of Ksu peptides by immunoprecipitation technology. As a result, we identified 552 Ksu sites in 164 proteins. The raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD013173. Compared with our previous studies on lysine acetylation and crotonylation, Ksu plays a major role in diverse metabolic processes such as carbon metabolism and the tricarboxylic acid circle. In addition, we defined five new succinylation motifs: (su)KA, (su)KxxxxA, (su)KxxxxL, (su)KxA, and (su)KxV. In conclusion, our results provide a proteome-wide database to study Ksu in zebrafish, and our bioinformatics results facilitated the understanding of the role of Ksu in central metabolism.
PXD013523	31484429	Papillary Renal Cell Carcinomas Rewire Glutathione Metabolism and Are Deficient in Both Anabolic Glucose Synthesis and Oxidative Phosphorylation. 	Papillary renal cell carcinomas rewire glutathione metabolism	glutathione metabolism, metabolic reprogramming, metabolome Profiling	Papillary renal cell carcinoma (pRCC) is a malignant kidney cancer with a prevalence of 7-20% of all renal tumors. Proteome and metabolome profiles of 19 pRCC and patient-matched healthy kidney controls were used to elucidate the regulation of metabolic pathways and the underlying molecular mechanisms. Glutathione (GSH), a main reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger, was highly increased and can be regarded as a new hallmark in this malignancy. Isotope tracing of pRCC derived cell lines revealed an increased de novo synthesis rate of GSH, based on glutamine consumption. Furthermore, profound downregulation of gluconeogenesis and oxidative phosphorylation was observed at the protein level. In contrast, analysis of the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) papillary RCC cohort revealed no significant change in transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation compared to normal kidney tissue, highlighting the importance of proteomic profiling. The molecular characteristics of pRCC are increased GSH synthesis to cope with ROS stress, deficient anabolic glucose synthesis, and compromised oxidative phosphorylation, which could potentially be exploited in innovative anti-cancer strategies.
PXD011963	31485003	The poly-SUMO2/3 protease SENP6 enables assembly of the constitutive centromere-associated network by group deSUMOylation. 	The SUMO protease SENP6 regulates the constitutive centromere-associated network by group	Chromatin, SENP6, human osteosacrcoma cell line U2OS	In contrast to our extensive knowledge on ubiquitin polymer signaling, we are severely limited in our understanding of poly-SUMO signaling. We set out to identify substrates conjugated to SUMO polymers, using knockdown of the poly-SUMO2/3 protease SENP6. We identify over 180 SENP6 regulated proteins that represent highly interconnected functional groups of proteins including the constitutive centromere-associated network (CCAN), the CENP-A loading factors Mis18BP1 and Mis18A and DNA damage response factors. Our results indicate a striking protein group de-modification by SENP6. SENP6 deficient cells are severely compromised for proliferation, accumulate in G2/M and frequently form micronuclei. Accumulation of CENP-T, CENP-W and CENP-A to centromeres is impaired in the absence of SENP6. Surprisingly, the increase of SUMO chains does not lead to ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation of the CCAN subunits. Our results indicate that SUMO polymers can act in a proteolysis-independent manner and consequently, have a more diverse signaling function than previously expected.
PXD015244	31487112	Acyldepsipeptide Probes Facilitate Specific Detection of Caseinolytic Protease P Independent of Its Oligomeric and Activity State. 	Acyldepsipeptide probes facilitate specific detection of caseinolytic protease P independent of its oligomeric and activity state	S. aureus, Thermo Fischer Q Exactive Orbitrap, photoaffinity labeling	Caseinolytic protease P (ClpP) is a tetradecameric peptidase that assembles with chaperones such as ClpX to gain proteolytic activity. Acyldepsipeptides (ADEPs) are small-molecule mimics of ClpX that bind into hydrophobic pockets on the apical site of the complex, thereby activating ClpP. Detection of ClpP has so far been facilitated with active-site-directed probes which depend on the activity and oligomeric state of the complex. To expand the scope of ClpP labeling, we took a stepwise synthetic approach toward customized ADEP photoprobes. Structure-activity relationship studies with small fragments and ADEP derivatives paired with modeling studies revealed the design principles for suitable probe molecules. The derivatives were tested for activation of ClpP and subsequently applied in labeling studies of the wild-type peptidase as well as enzymes bearing mutations at the active site and an oligomerization sensor. Satisfyingly, the ADEP photoprobes provided a labeling readout of ClpP independent of its activity and oligomeric state.
PXD013152	31487418	NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase 2 promotes tumor progression via its interacting partner RPL6 in gallbladder carcinoma. 	Interaction partners with NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase 2 (NSUN2) in gallbladder carcinoma	GBC, NSUN2	NOP2/Sun domain family, member 2 (NSUN2) is a nuclear RNA methyl-transferase catalyzing 5-methylcytosine formation. Evidence shows that NSUN2 is correlated with cell unlimited proliferation. However, its functional role in gallbladder carcinoma (GBC), which is the most common biliary tract malignancy and has a poor prognosis, remains to be determined. Here we found that NSUN2 was highly expressed in GBC tissues as well as cell lines. NSUN2 silencing repressed GBC cell proliferation and tumorigenesis both in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, upregulation of NSUN2 enhanced GBC cell growth and colony formation. We further discovered that RPL6 was a closely interacting partner with NSUN2. Silencing RPL6 resulted in insufficient NSUN2 translational level and accumulative NSUN2 transcriptional level. Exogenous expression of NSUN2 partially rescued the effect of RPL6 in gallbladder cancer progression. Taken together, our data provided novel mechanic insights into the function of NSUN2 in GBC, thus pointing to NSUN2 as a potential and effective therapeutic approach to GBC treatment.
PXD012149	31487437	Succinylome Analysis Reveals the Involvement of Lysine Succinylation in the Extreme Resistance of Deinococcus radiodurans. 	Succinylome analysis reveals the involvement of lysine succinylation in extreme resistance of Deinococcus radiodurans	DNA repair, Nucleic acid binding, posttranslational modification, succinylation, succinylome	Increasing evidence shows that the succinylation of lysine residues mainly regulates enzymes involved in the carbon metabolism pathway, in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Deinococcus radiodurans is one of the most radioresistant organisms on earth and is famous for its robust resistance. A major goal in the current study of protein succinylation is to explore its function in D. radiodurans. High-resolution LC-MS/MS is used for qualitative proteomics to perform a global succinylation analysis of D. radiodurans and 492 succinylation sites in 270 proteins are identified. These proteins are involved in a variety of biological processes and pathways. It is found that the enzymes involved in nucleic acid binding/processing are enriched in D. radiodurans compared with their previously reported levels in other bacteria. The mutagenesis studies confirm that succinylation regulates the enzymatic activities of species-specific proteins PprI and DdrB, which belong to the radiation-desiccation response regulon. Together, these results provide insight into the role of lysine succinylation in the extreme resistance of D. radiodurans.
PXD014133	31488510	Global Lysine Crotonylation and 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation in Phenotypically Different Toxoplasma gondii Parasites. 	Global lysine crotonylation and 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation in phenotypically different Toxoplasma gondii parasites	2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, Toxoplasma gondii, crotonylation, function, metabolism, protein posttranslational modification	Toxoplasma gondii is a unicellular protozoan parasite of the phylum Apicomplexa. The parasite repeatedly goes through a cycle of invasion, division and induction of host cell rupture, which is an obligatory process for proliferation inside warm-blooded animals. It is known that the biology of the parasite is controlled by a variety of mechanisms ranging from genomic to epigenetic to transcriptional regulation. In this study, we investigated the global protein posttranslational lysine crotonylation and 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation of two T. gondii strains, RH and ME49, which represent distinct phenotypes for proliferation and pathogenicity in the host. Proteins with differential expression and modification patterns associated with parasite phenotypes were identified. Many proteins in T. gondii were crotonylated and 2-hydroxyisobutyrylated, and they were localized in diverse subcellular compartments involved in a wide variety of cellular functions such as motility, host invasion, metabolism and epigenetic gene regulation. These findings suggest that lysine crotonylation and 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation are ubiquitous throughout the T. gondii proteome, regulating critical functions of the modified proteins. These data provide a basis for identifying important proteins associated with parasite development and pathogenicity.
PXD010922	31488564	Maintenance of spatial gene expression by Polycomb-mediated repression after formation of a vertebrate body plan. 	Zebrafish 24hpf whole embryo MZezh2mutant	24hpf, Zebrafish, embryo, ezh2	Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are transcriptional repressors that are important regulators of cell fate during embryonic development. Among them, Ezh2 is responsible for catalyzing the epigenetic repressive mark H3K27me3 and is essential for animal development. The ability of zebrafish embryos lacking both maternal and zygotic ezh2 to form a normal body plan provides a unique model for comprehensively studying Ezh2 function during early development in vertebrates. By using a multi-omics approach, we found that Ezh2 is required for the deposition of H3K27me3 and is essential for proper recruitment of Polycomb group protein Rnf2. However, despite the complete absence of PcG-associated epigenetic mark and proteins, only minor changes in H3K4me3 deposition and gene and protein expression occur. These changes were mainly due to local dysregulation of transcription factors outside their normal expression boundaries. Altogether, our results in zebrafish show that Polycomb-mediated gene repression is important immediately after the body plan is formed to maintain spatially restricted expression profiles of transcription factors, and we highlight the differences that exist in the timing of PcG protein action between vertebrate species.
PXD014738	31488907	Cryo-EM reveals active site coordination within a multienzyme pre-rRNA processing complex. 	BS3 crosslinking of GRC3 and Las1	crosslink GRC3 Las1 BS3	Ribosome assembly is a complex process reliant on the coordination of trans-acting enzymes to produce functional ribosomal subunits and secure the translational capacity of cells. The endoribonuclease (RNase) Las1 and the polynucleotide kinase (PNK) Grc3 assemble into a multienzyme complex, herein designated RNase PNK, to orchestrate processing of precursor ribosomal RNA (rRNA). RNase PNK belongs to the functionally diverse HEPN nuclease superfamily, whose members rely on distinct cues for nuclease activation. To establish how RNase PNK coordinates its dual enzymatic activities, we solved a series of cryo-EM structures of Chaetomium thermophilum RNase PNK in multiple conformational states. The structures reveal that RNase PNK adopts a butterfly-like architecture, harboring a composite HEPN nuclease active site flanked by discrete RNA kinase sites. We identify two molecular switches that coordinate nuclease and kinase function. Together, our structures and corresponding functional studies establish a new mechanism of HEPN nuclease activation essential for ribosome production.
PXD012444	31489155	Predictive modeling of therapeutic response to chondroitin sulfate/glucosamine hydrochloride in knee osteoarthritis. 	PREDICTIVE MODELING OF THERAPEUTIC RESPONSE TO CHONDROITIN SULFATE/GLUCOSAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE IN KNEE OSTEOARTHRITIS	Chondroitin sulfate/Glucosamine hydrochloride, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), osteoarthritis, predictive biomarkers	BACKGROUND: In the present study, we explored potential protein biomarkers useful to predict the therapeutic response of knee osteoarthritis (KOA) patients treated with pharmaceutical grade Chondroitin sulfate/Glucosamine hydrochloride (CS+GH; Droglican, Bioiberica), in order to optimize therapeutic outcomes. METHODS: A shotgun proteomic analysis by iTRAQ labelling and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was performed using sera from 40 patients enrolled in the Multicentre Osteoarthritis interVEntion trial with Sysadoa (MOVES). The panel of proteins potentially useful to predict KOA patient's response was clinically validated in the whole MOVES cohort at baseline (n = 506) using commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays kits. Logistic regression models and receiver-operating-characteristics (ROC) curves were used to analyze the contribution of these proteins to our prediction models of symptomatic drug response in KOA. RESULTS: In the discovery phase of the study, a panel of six putative predictive biomarkers of response to CS+GH (APOA2, APOA4, APOH, ITIH1, C4BPa and ORM2) were identified by shotgun proteomics. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012444. In the verification phase, the panel was verified in a larger set of KOA patients (n = 262). Finally, ITIH1 and ORM2 were qualified by a blind test in the whole MOVES cohort at baseline. The combination of these biomarkers with clinical variables predict the patients' response to CS+GH with a specificity of 79.5% and a sensitivity of 77.1%. CONCLUSIONS: Combining clinical and analytical parameters, we identified one biomarker that could accurately predict KOA patients' response to CS+GH treatment. Its use would allow an increase in response rates and safety for the patients suffering KOA.
PXD047574	31489782	Voluntary exercise normalizes the proteomic landscape in muscle and brain and improves the phenotype of progeroid mice. 	Mouse HiRIEF LCMS Proteomics of liver tissue - WT VS PolgA KO mutant	HiRIEF, LCMS, PolgA knockout, Qexactive, TMT10plex, WT, Wild Type, liver, murine	The accumulation of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations is a suspected driver of aging and age-related diseases, but forestalling these changes has been a major challenge. One of the best-studied models is the prematurely aging mtDNA mutator mouse, which carries a homozygous knock-in of a proofreading deficient version of the catalytic subunit of mtDNA polymerase-gamma (PolgA). We investigated how voluntary exercise affects the progression of aging phenotypes in this mouse, focusing on mitochondrial and protein homeostasis in both brain and peripheral tissues. Voluntary exercise significantly ameliorated several aspects of the premature aging phenotype, including decreased locomotor activity, alopecia, and kyphosis, but did not have major effects on the decreased lifespan of mtDNA mutator mice. Exercise also decreased the mtDNA mutation load. In-depth tissue proteomics revealed that exercise normalized the levels of about half the proteins, with the majority involved in mitochondrial function and nuclear-mitochondrial crosstalk. There was also a specific increase in the nuclear-encoded proteins needed for the tricarboxylic acid cycle and complex II, but not in mitochondrial-encoded oxidative phosphorylation proteins, as well as normalization of enzymes involved in coenzyme Q biosynthesis. Furthermore, we found tissue-specific alterations, with brain coping better as compared to muscle and with motor cortex being better protected than striatum, in response to mitochondrial dysfunction. We conclude that voluntary exercise counteracts aging in mtDNA mutator mice by counteracting protein dysregulation in muscle and brain, decreasing the mtDNA mutation burden in muscle, and delaying overt aging phenotypes.
PXD014545	31490667	mTMT: An Alternative, Nonisobaric, Tandem Mass Tag Allowing for Precursor-Based Quantification. 	mTMT: An alternative, non-isobaric, tandem mass tag allowing for precursor-based quantification	SH-SY5Y, SILAC, SVGp12, TMT, isobaric, metabolic	Stable isotope labeling of peptides is the basis for numerous mass-spectrometry-based quantification strategies. Isobaric tagging and metabolic labeling, namely, tandem mass tagging (TMT) and SILAC, are among the most widely used techniques for relative protein quantification. Here we report an alternative, precursor-based quantification method using nonisobaric TMT variants: TMTzero (TMT0) and superheavy TMT (shTMT). We term this strategy mass difference tandem mass tagging (mTMT). These TMT variants differ by 11 mass units; however, peptides labeled with these reagents coelute, analogous to SILAC-labeled peptide pairs. As a proof-of-concept, we profiled the proteomes of two cell lines that are frequently used in neuroscience studies, SH-SY5Y and SVGp12, using mTMT and standard SILAC-labeling approaches. We show similar quantified proteins and peptides for each method, with highly correlated fold-changes between workflows. We conclude that mTMT is a suitable alternative for precursor-based protein quantification.
PXD009577	31490923	Conservation and divergence of protein pathways in the vertebrate heart. 	Getting to the heart of the matter: Multispecies heart tissue proteome characterization	Heart tissue, heart proteome, label-free quant, multispecies	Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the western world. Attaining a mechanistic understanding of human heart development and homeostasis and the molecular basis of associated disease states relies on the use of animal models. Here, we present the cardiac proteomes of 4 model vertebrates with dual circulatory systems: the pig (Sus scrofa), the mouse (Mus musculus), and 2 frogs (Xenopus laevis and Xenopus tropicalis). Determination of which proteins and protein pathways are conserved and which have diverged within these species will aid in our ability to choose the appropriate models for determining protein function and to model human disease. We uncover mammalian- and amphibian-specific, as well as species-specific, enriched proteins and protein pathways. Among these, we find and validate an enrichment in cell-cycle-associated proteins within Xenopus laevis. To further investigate functional units within cardiac proteomes, we develop a computational approach to profile the abundance of protein complexes across species. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of these data sets for predicting appropriate model systems for studying given cardiac conditions by testing the role of Kielin/chordin-like protein (Kcp), a protein found as enriched in frog hearts compared to mammals. We establish that germ-line mutations in Kcp in Xenopus lead to valve defects and, ultimately, cardiac failure and death. Thus, integrating these findings with data on proteins responsible for cardiac disease should lead to the development of refined, species-specific models for protein function and disease states.
PXD012273	31491385	Amyloid-like Assembly Activates a Phosphatase in the Developing Drosophila Embryo. 	MudPIT analyses of the proteins co-purified with wild type-Hzg-3XHA/Flag and phosphatase dead-Hzg-3XHA/Flag affinity purifications from Drosophila melanogaster S2 cells	Herzog, Hzg, amyloid, phosphatase, prion-like protein, segment polarity	Prion-like proteins can assume distinct conformational and physical states in the same cell. Sequence analysis suggests that prion-like proteins are prevalent in various species; however, it remains unclear what functional space they occupy in multicellular organisms. Here, we report the identification of a prion-like protein, Herzog (CG5830), through a multimodal screen in Drosophila melanogaster. Herzog functions as a membrane-associated phosphatase and controls embryonic patterning, likely being involved in TGF-beta/BMP and FGF/EGF signaling pathways. Remarkably, monomeric Herzog is enzymatically inactive and becomes active upon amyloid-like assembly. The prion-like domain of Herzog is necessary for both its assembly and membrane targeting. Removal of the prion-like domain impairs activity, while restoring assembly on the membrane using a heterologous prion-like domain and membrane-targeting motif can restore phosphatase activity. This study provides an example of a prion-like domain that allows an enzyme to gain essential functionality via amyloid-like assembly to control animal development.
PXD013452	31492563	Distinct gut metagenomics and metaproteomics signatures in prediabetics and treatment-naive type 2 diabetics. 	treatment-nave type 2 diabetics metaproteomics	T2D, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: The gut microbiota plays important roles in modulating host metabolism. Previous studies have demonstrated differences in the gut microbiome of T2D and prediabetic individuals compared to healthy individuals, with distinct disease-related microbial profiles being reported in groups of different age and ethnicity. However, confounding factors such as anti-diabetic medication hamper identification of the gut microbial changes in disease development. METHOD: We used a combination of in-depth metagenomics and metaproteomics analyses of faecal samples from treatment-naive type 2 diabetic (TN-T2D, n = 77), pre-diabetic (Pre-DM, n = 80), and normal glucose tolerant (NGT, n = 97) individuals to investigate compositional and functional changes of the gut microbiota and the faecal content of microbial and host proteins in Pre-DM and treatment-naive T2D individuals to elucidate possible host-microbial interplays characterizing different disease stages. FINDINGS: We observed distinct differences characterizing the gut microbiota of these three groups and validated several key features in an independent TN-T2D cohort. We also demonstrated that the content of several human antimicrobial peptides and pancreatic enzymes differed in faecal samples between three groups. INTERPRETATION: Our findings suggest a complex, disease stage-dependent interplay between the gut microbiota and the host and point to the value of metaproteomics to gain further insight into interplays between the gut microbiota and the host. FUND: The study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 31601073), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2017YFC0909703) and the Shenzhen Municipal Government of China (No. JCYJ20170817145809215). The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.
PXD013664	31492684	Comprehensive Analysis of the Lysine Succinylome and Protein Co-modifications in Developing Rice Seeds. 	Proteome-wide lysine succinylome profiling and comprehensive analysis of protein lysine co-modification in developing rice seeds	Lysine succinylation, Post-translational modification, Rice, Seeds, Storage nutrient, Succinylome	Lysine succinylation has been recognized as a post-translational modification (PTM) in recent years. It is plausible that succinylation may have a vaster functional impact than acetylation because of bulkier structural changes and more significant charge differences on the modified lysine residue. Currently, however, the quantity and identity of succinylated proteins and their corresponding functions in cereal plants remain largely unknown. In this study, we estimated the native succinylation occupancy on lysine was between 2% to 10% in developing rice seeds. Eight hundred fifty-four lysine succinylation sites on 347 proteins have been identified by a thorough investigation in developing rice seeds. Six motifs were revealed as preferred amino acid sequence arrangements for succinylation sites, and a noteworthy motif preference was identified in proteins associated with different biological processes, molecular functions, pathways, and domains. Remarkably, heavy succinylation was detected on major seed storage proteins, in conjunction with critical enzymes involved in central carbon metabolism and starch biosynthetic pathways for rice seed development. Meanwhile, our results showed that the modification pattern of in vitro nonenzymatically succinylated proteins was different from those of the proteins isolated from cells in Western blots, suggesting that succinylation is not generated via nonenzymatic reaction in the cells, at least not completely. Using the acylation data obtained from the same rice tissue, we mapped many sites harboring lysine succinylation, acetylation, malonylation, crotonylation, and 2-hydroxisobutyrylation in rice seed proteins. A striking number of proteins with multiple modifications were shown to be involved in critical metabolic events. Given that these modification moieties are intermediate products of multiple cellular metabolic pathways, these targeted lysine residues may mediate the crosstalk between different metabolic pathways via modifications by different moieties. Our study exhibits a platform for extensive investigation of molecular networks administrating cereal seed development and metabolism via PTMs.
PXD015035	31492838	Next-generation unnatural monosaccharides reveal that ESRRB O-GlcNAcylation regulates pluripotency of mouse embryonic stem cells. 	Next generation unnatural monosaccharides reveal that ESRRBO GlcNAcylation enhances pluripotency of mouse embryonic stem cells	1, 3-Ac2GalNAz, 3-Pr2GalNAz, ESRRB, O-GlcNAc	Unnatural monosaccharides such as azidosugars that can be metabolically incorporated into cellular glycans are currently used as a major tool for glycan imaging and glycoproteomic profiling. As a common practice to enhance membrane permeability and cellular uptake, the unnatural sugars are per-O-acetylated, which, however, can induce a long-overlooked side reaction, non-enzymatic S-glycosylation. Herein, we develop 1,3-di-esterified N-azidoacetylgalactosamine (GalNAz) as next-generation chemical reporters for metabolic glycan labeling. Both 1,3-di-O-acetylated GalNAz (1,3-Ac2GalNAz) and 1,3-di-O-propionylated GalNAz (1,3-Pr2GalNAz) exhibit high efficiency for labeling protein O-GlcNAcylation with no artificial S-glycosylation. Applying 1,3-Pr2GalNAz in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), we identify ESRRB, a critical transcription factor for pluripotency, as an O-GlcNAcylated protein. We show that ESRRB O-GlcNAcylation is important for mESC self-renewal and pluripotency. Mechanistically, ESRRB is O-GlcNAcylated by O-GlcNAc transferase at serine 25, which stabilizes ESRRB, promotes its transcription activity and facilitates its interactions with two master pluripotency regulators, OCT4 and NANOG.
PXD014645	31492851	ALDH7A1 inhibits the intracellular transport pathways during hypoxia and starvation to promote cellular energy homeostasis. 	ALDH7A1 inhibits the intracellular transport pathways during hypoxia and starvation to promote cellular energy homeostasis	BARS	The aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) family of metabolic enzymes converts aldehydes to carboxylates. Here, we find that the reductive consequence of ALDH7A1 activity, which generates NADH (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, reduced form) from NAD, underlies how ALDH7A1 coordinates a broad inhibition of the intracellular transport pathways. Studying vesicle formation by the Coat Protein I (COPI) complex, we elucidate that NADH generated by ALDH7A1 targets Brefeldin-A ADP-Ribosylated Substrate (BARS) to inhibit COPI vesicle fission. Moreover, defining a physiologic role for the broad transport inhibition exerted by ALDH7A1, we find that it acts to reduce energy consumption during hypoxia and starvation to promote cellular energy homeostasis. These findings advance the understanding of intracellular transport by revealing how the coordination of multiple pathways can be achieved, and also defining circumstances when such coordination is needed, as well as uncovering an unexpected way that NADH acts in cellular energetics.
PXD014605	31492882	Pseudomonas spp. are key players in agricultural biogas substrate degradation. 	Anaerobic biogas plants via LC-MS/MS	Metaproteomics, biogas plants, methanogenic pathway, network analysis	Anaerobic degradation (AD) of heterogeneous agricultural substrates is a complex process involving a diverse microbial community. While microbial community composition of a variety of biogas plants (BPs) is well described, little is known about metabolic processes and microbial interaction patterns. Here, we analyzed 16 large-scale BPs using metaproteomics. All metabolic steps of AD were observed in the metaproteome, and multivariate analyses indicated that they were shaped by temperature, pH, volatile fatty acid content and substrate types. Biogas plants could be subdivided into hydrogenotrophic, acetoclastic or a mixture of both methanogenic pathways based on their process parameters, taxonomic and functional metaproteome. Network analyses showed large differences in metabolic and microbial interaction patterns. Both, number of interactions and interaction partners were highly dependent on the prevalent methanogenic pathway for most species. Nevertheless, we observed a highly conserved metabolism of different abundant Pseudomonas spp. for all BPs indicating a key role during AD in carbohydrate hydrolysis irrespectively of variabilities in substrate input and process parameters. Thus, Pseudomonas spp. are of high importance for robust and versatile AD food webs, which highlight a large variety of downstream metabolic processes for their respective methanogenic pathways.
PXD014657	31492911	Palaeoproteomic identification of breast milk protein residues from the archaeological skeletal remains of a neonatal dog. 	Palaeoproteomic identification of breast milk protein residues from the archaeological skeletal remains of a neonatal dog	Bone, Dog, Palaeoproteomics	Accurate postmortem estimation of breastfeeding status for archaeological or forensic neonatal remains is difficult. Confident identification of milk-specific proteins associated with these remains would provide direct evidence of breast milk consumption. We used liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (MS) to confidently identify beta-lactoglobulin-1 (LGB1) and whey acidic protein (WAP), major whey proteins associated with a neonatal dog (Canis lupus familiaris) skeleton (430-960 cal AD), from an archaeological site in Hokkaido, Japan. The age at death of the individual was estimated to be approximately two weeks after birth. Protein residues extracted from rib and vertebra fragments were analyzed and identified by matching tandem MS spectra against the dog reference proteome. A total of 200 dog protein groups were detected and at least one peptide from canine LGB1 and two peptides from canine WAP were confidently identified. These milk proteins most probably originated from the mother's breast milk, ingested by the neonate just before it died. We suggest the milk diffused outside the digestive apparatus during decomposition, and, by being absorbed into the bones, it partially preserved. The result of this study suggests that proteomic analysis can be used for postmortem reconstruction of the breastfeeding status at the time of death of neonatal mammalian, by analyzing their skeletal archaeological remains. This method is also applicable to forensic and wildlife studies.
PXD008780	31492961	Metaproteomics reveal that rapid perturbations in organic matter prioritize functional restructuring over taxonomy in western Arctic Ocean microbiomes. 	Functional Response of Polar Bacterial Communities under Variable Organic Inputs Revealed with Metaproteomic, 16S rRNA and Organic Compositional Analysis	Arctic, Metaproteomics, bacteria, metagenomics, metaproteomics, organic matter	We examined metaproteome profiles from two Arctic microbiomes during 10-day shipboard incubations to directly track early functional and taxonomic responses to a simulated algal bloom and an oligotrophic control. Using a novel peptide-based enrichment analysis, significant changes (p-value < 0.01) in biological and molecular functions associated with carbon and nitrogen recycling were observed. Within the first day under both organic matter conditions, Bering Strait surface microbiomes increased protein synthesis, carbohydrate degradation, and cellular redox processes while decreasing C1 metabolism. Taxonomic assignments revealed that the core microbiome collectively responded to algal substrates by assimilating carbon before select taxa utilize and metabolize nitrogen intracellularly. Incubations of Chukchi Sea bottom water microbiomes showed similar, but delayed functional responses to identical treatments. Although 24 functional terms were shared between experimental treatments, the timing, and degree of the remaining responses were highly variable, showing that organic matter perturbation directs community functionality prior to alterations to the taxonomic distribution at the microbiome class level. The dynamic responses of these two oceanic microbial communities have important implications for timing and magnitude of responses to organic perturbations within the Arctic Ocean and how community-level functions may forecast biogeochemical gradients in oceans.
PXD014943	31495056	High-throughput proteomic analysis of FFPE tissue samples facilitates tumor stratification. 	113 DLBCL SWATH maps by PCT-SWATH	DLBCL, FFPE, PCT-DIA, SWATH	Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE), biobanked tissue samples offer an invaluable resource for clinical and biomarker research. Here, we developed a pressure cycling technology (PCT)-SWATH mass spectrometry workflow to analyze FFPE tissue proteomes and applied it to the stratification of prostate cancer (PCa) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) samples. We show that the proteome patterns of FFPE PCa tissue samples and their analogous fresh-frozen (FF) counterparts have a high degree of similarity and we confirmed multiple proteins consistently regulated in PCa tissues in an independent sample cohort. We further demonstrate temporal stability of proteome patterns from FFPE samples that were stored between 1 and 15 years in a biobank and show a high degree of the proteome pattern similarity between two types of histological regions in small FFPE samples, that is, punched tissue biopsies and thin tissue sections of micrometer thickness, despite the existence of a certain degree of biological variations. Applying the method to two independent DLBCL cohorts, we identified myeloperoxidase, a peroxidase enzyme, as a novel prognostic marker. In summary, this study presents a robust proteomic method to analyze bulk and biopsy FFPE tissues and reports the first systematic comparison of proteome maps generated from FFPE and FF samples. Our data demonstrate the practicality and superiority of FFPE over FF samples for proteome in biomarker discovery. Promising biomarker candidates for PCa and DLBCL have been discovered.
PXD013631	31495318	Temporary adhesion of the proseriate flatworm Minona ileanae. 	Temporary bioadhesion in the proseriate flatworm Minona ileanae	Bioadhesion, Flatworms, Platyhelminthes	Flatworms can very rapidly attach to and detach from many substrates. In the presented work, we analysed the adhesive system of the marine proseriate flatworm Minona ileanae. We used light-, scanning- and transmission electron microscopy to analyse the morphology of the adhesive organs, which are located at the ventral side of the tail-plate. We performed transcriptome sequencing and differential RNA-seq for the identification of tail-specific transcripts. Using in situ hybridization expression screening, we identified nine transcripts that were expressed in the cells of the adhesive organs. Knock-down of five of these transcripts by RNA interference led to a reduction of the animal's attachment capacity. Adhesive proteins in footprints were confirmed using mass spectrometry and antibody staining. Additionally, lectin labelling of footprints revealed the presence of several sugar moieties. Furthermore, we determined a genome size of about 560 Mb for M. ileanae. We demonstrated the potential of Oxford Nanopore sequencing of genomic DNA as a cost-effective tool for identifying the number of repeats within an adhesive protein and for combining transcripts that were fragments of larger genes. A better understanding of the molecules involved in flatworm bioadhesion can pave the way towards developing innovative glues with reversible adhesive properties. This article is part of the theme issue 'Transdisciplinary approaches to the study of adhesion and adhesives in biological systems'.
PXD006003	31495571	Proteomics of Melanoma Response to Immunotherapy Reveals Mitochondrial Dependence. 	Proteomics of melanoma response to immunotherapy reveals dependence on mitochondrial function	Melanoma	Immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment, yet most patients do not respond. Here, we investigated mechanisms of response by profiling the proteome of clinical samples from advanced stage melanoma patients undergoing either tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL)-based or anti- programmed death 1 (PD1) immunotherapy. Using high-resolution mass spectrometry, we quantified over 10,300 proteins in total and ~4,500 proteins across most samples in each dataset. Statistical analyses revealed higher oxidative phosphorylation and lipid metabolism in responders than in non-responders in both treatments. To elucidate the effects of the metabolic state on the immune response, we examined melanoma cells upon metabolic perturbations or CRISPR-Cas9 knockouts. These experiments indicated lipid metabolism as a regulatory mechanism that increases melanoma immunogenicity by elevating antigen presentation, thereby increasing sensitivity to T cell mediated killing both in vitro and in vivo. Altogether, our proteomic analyses revealed association between the melanoma metabolic state and the response to immunotherapy, which can be the basis for future improvement of therapeutic response.
PXD014293	31495665	Defining HLA-II Ligand Processing and Binding Rules with Mass Spectrometry Enhances Cancer Epitope Prediction. 	Defining HLA-II ligand processing and binding rules with mass spectrometry enhances cancer epitope prediction	classii, epitope, hla, neoantigen, prediction	Increasing evidence indicates CD4(+) T cells can recognize cancer-specific antigens and control tumor growth. However, it remains difficult to predict the antigens that will be presented by human leukocyte antigen class II molecules (HLA-II), hindering efforts to optimally target them therapeutically. Obstacles include inaccurate peptide-binding prediction and unsolved complexities of the HLA-II pathway. To address these challenges, we developed an improved technology for discovering HLA-II binding motifs and conducted a comprehensive analysis of tumor ligandomes to learn processing rules relevant in the tumor microenvironment. We profiled >40 HLA-II alleles and showed that binding motifs were highly sensitive to HLA-DM, a peptide-loading chaperone. We also revealed that intratumoral HLA-II presentation was dominated by professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) rather than cancer cells. Integrating these observations, we developed algorithms that accurately predicted APC ligandomes, including peptides from phagocytosed cancer cells. These tools and biological insights will enable improved HLA-II-directed cancer therapies.
PXD012521	31495888	SLX4IP acts with SLX4 and XPF-ERCC1 to promote interstrand crosslink repair. 	SLX4 and SLX4IP TAP-MS -  SLX4IP acts with SLX4 and XPF-ERCC1 to promote interstrand crosslink repair	SFB, SLX4, SLX4IP, TAP-MS	Interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) are highly toxic DNA lesions that are repaired via a complex process requiring the coordination of several DNA repair pathways. Defects in ICL repair result in Fanconi anemia, which is characterized by bone marrow failure, developmental abnormalities, and a high incidence of malignancies. SLX4, also known as FANCP, acts as a scaffold protein and coordinates multiple endonucleases that unhook ICLs, resolve homologous recombination intermediates, and perhaps remove unhooked ICLs. In this study, we explored the role of SLX4IP, a constitutive factor in the SLX4 complex, in ICL repair. We found that SLX4IP is a novel regulatory factor; its depletion sensitized cells to treatment with ICL-inducing agents and led to accumulation of cells in the G2/M phase. We further discovered that SLX4IP binds to SLX4 and XPF-ERCC1 simultaneously and that disruption of one interaction also disrupts the other. The binding of SLX4IP to both SLX4 and XPF-ERCC1 not only is vital for maintaining the stability of SLX4IP protein, but also promotes the interaction between SLX4 and XPF-ERCC1, especially after DNA damage. Collectively, these results demonstrate a new regulatory role for SLX4IP in maintaining an efficient SLX4-XPF-ERCC1 complex in ICL repair.
PXD013586	31501225	N-glycopeptide Signatures of IgA2 in Serum from Patients with Hepatitis B Virus-related Liver Diseases. 	N-glycopeptide Signatures in Liver Diseases	Glycopeptide, HBV-related liver diseases, serum	N-glycosylation alteration has been reported in liver diseases. Characterizing N-glycopeptides that correspond to N-glycan structure with specific site information enables better understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of liver damage and cancer. Here, unbiased quantification of N-glycopeptides of a cluster of serum glycoproteins with 40-55 kDa molecular weight (40-kDa band) was investigated in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related liver diseases. We used an N-glycopeptide method based on (18)O/(16)O C-terminal labeling to obtain 82 comparisons of serum from patients with HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and liver cirrhosis (LC). Then, multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) was performed to quantify N-glycopeptide relative to the protein content, especially in the healthy donor-HBV-LC-HCC cascade. TPLTAN(205)ITK (H5N5S1F1) and (H5N4S2F1) corresponding to the glycopeptides of IgA2 were significantly elevated in serum from patients with HBV infection and even higher in HBV-related LC patients, as compared with healthy donor. In contrast, the two glycopeptides of IgA2 fell back down in HBV-related HCC patients. In addition, the variation in the abundance of two glycopeptides was not caused by its protein concentration. The altered N-glycopeptides might be part of a unique glycan signature indicating an IgA-mediated mechanism and providing potential diagnostic clues in HBV-related liver diseases.
PXD015002	31501337	Relief food subsistence revealed by microparticle and proteomic analyses of dental calculus from victims of the Great Irish Famine. 	Relief Food Subsistence Revealed by Microparticle and Proteomics Analyses of Dental Calculus From Victims of the Great Irish Famine	bioarchaeology, calculus, microparticle, starch, tartar, teeth	Food and diet were class markers in 19th-century Ireland, which became evident as nearly 1 million people, primarily the poor and destitute, died as a consequence of the notorious Great Famine of 1845 to 1852. Famine took hold after a blight (Phytophthora infestans) destroyed virtually the only means of subsistence-the potato crop-for a significant proportion of the population. This study seeks to elucidate the variability of diet in mid-19th-century Ireland through microparticle and proteomic analysis of human dental calculus samples (n = 42) from victims of the famine. The samples derive from remains of people who died between August 1847 and March 1851 while receiving poor relief as inmates in the union workhouse in the city of Kilkenny (52degrees39' N, -7degrees15' W). The results corroborate the historical accounts of food provisions before and during the famine, with evidence of corn (maize), potato, and cereal starch granules from the microparticle analysis and milk protein from the proteomic analysis. Unexpectedly, there is also evidence of egg protein-a food source generally reserved only for export and the better-off social classes-which highlights the variability of the prefamine experience for those who died. Through historical contextualization, this study shows how the notoriously monotonous potato diet of the poor was opportunistically supplemented by other foodstuffs. While the Great Irish Famine was one of the worst subsistence crises in history, it was foremost a social disaster induced by the lack of access to food and not the lack of food availability.
PXD013143	31501420	CCT3 acts upstream of YAP and TFCP2 as a potential target and tumour biomarker in liver cancer. 	CCT3 acts as upstream of YAP and  TFCP2 to be a potential target and tumor biomarker in liver cancer	liver	Although Yes-associated protein (YAP) is very important to liver cancer, its nuclear localisation prevents consideration as a promising therapeutic target and a diagnostic biomarker. Recently, we reported that the protumourigenic roles of YAP in liver cancer are indispensable for transcription factor CP2 (TFCP2) in a Hippo-independent manner; however, proteins that act upstream to simultaneously control YAP and TFCP2 remain unclear. The aim of this study was to uncover such proteins and evaluate whether they are potential YAP-associated therapeutic targets and diagnostic biomarkers. Mass spectrometry revealed that chaperonin containing TCP1 subunit 3 (CCT3) co-interact with YAP and TFCP2, and notably, CCT3 is a non-nuclear protein. CCT3 was elevated in liver cancer, and its higher expression was associated with poorer overall survival. Inhibiting CCT3 resulted in a suppressed transformative phenotype in liver cancer cells, suggesting that CCT3 might be a potential therapeutic target. CCT3 prolonged half-life of YAP and TFCP2 by blocking their ubiquitination caused by poly(rC) binding protein 2 (PCBP2) in a beta-transducin repeat containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (betaTrCP)-independent manner. Interestingly, PCBP2 directly interacted with YAP via a WB motif-WW domain interaction, whereas indirectly interacted with TFCP2 via the aid of YAP. Furthermore, CCT3 was capable of separating PCBP2-YAP interactions, thereby preventing YAP and TFCP2 from PCBP2-induced ubiquitination. Moreover, YAP and TFCP2 were downstream of CCT3 to positively control tumourigenesis, yet such effects were inhibited by PCBP2. Clinically, CCT3 was positively correlated with YAP and TFCP2, and elevated levels of the CCT3-YAP-TFCP2 axis might be critical for liver malignancy. In addition, seral-CCT3 was proven to be a potential biomarker, and its diagnostic capacity was better than that of alpha fetoprotein (AFP) to a certain extent. Together, CCT3 acts as a trigger of YAP and TFCP2 to affect tumourigenesis and serves as a potential therapeutic target and biomarker in liver cancer.
PXD010772	31501572	Cell-type-specific profiling of brain mitochondria reveals functional and molecular diversity. 	Quantitative proteomics of immunocaptured mitochondria from Purkinje Cells	Mitochondria, Neurons, ProteomeXchange project tag: Mitochondria (HPP), Purkinje Cells	Mitochondria vary in morphology and function in different tissues; however, little is known about their molecular diversity among cell types. Here we engineered MitoTag mice, which express a Cre recombinase-dependent green fluorescent protein targeted to the outer mitochondrial membrane, and developed an isolation approach to profile tagged mitochondria from defined cell types. We determined the mitochondrial proteome of the three major cerebellar cell types (Purkinje cells, granule cells and astrocytes) and identified hundreds of mitochondrial proteins that are differentially regulated. Thus, we provide markers of cell-type-specific mitochondria for the healthy and diseased mouse and human central nervous systems, including in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. Based on proteomic predictions, we demonstrate that astrocytic mitochondria metabolize long-chain fatty acids more efficiently than neuronal mitochondria. We also characterize cell-type differences in mitochondrial calcium buffering via the mitochondrial calcium uniporter (Mcu) and identify regulator of microtubule dynamics protein 3 (Rmdn3) as a determinant of endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondria proximity in Purkinje cells. Our approach enables exploring mitochondrial diversity in many in vivo contexts.
PXD013599	31501610	A single T cell epitope drives the neutralizing anti-drug antibody response to natalizumab in multiple sclerosis patients. 	A single T cell epitope drives the neutralizing anti-drug antibody response to natalizumab in multiple sclerosis patients	MHC-II peptidomics, antibody therapy, multiple sclerosis	Natalizumab (NZM), a humanized monoclonal IgG4 antibody to alpha4 integrins, is used to treat patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS)(1,2), but in about 6% of the cases persistent neutralizing anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) are induced leading to therapy discontinuation(3,4). To understand the basis of the ADA response and the mechanism of ADA-mediated neutralization, we performed an in-depth analysis of the B and T cell responses in two patients. By characterizing a large panel of NZM-specific monoclonal antibodies, we found that, in both patients, the response was polyclonal and targeted different epitopes of the NZM idiotype. The neutralizing activity was acquired through somatic mutations and correlated with a slow dissociation rate, a finding that was supported by structural data. Interestingly, in both patients, the analysis of the CD4(+) T cell response, combined with mass spectrometry-based peptidomics, revealed a single immunodominant T cell epitope spanning the FR2-CDR2 region of the NZM light chain. Moreover, a CDR2-modified version of NZM was not recognized by T cells, while retaining binding to alpha4 integrins. Collectively, our integrated analysis identifies the basis of T-B collaboration that leads to ADA-mediated therapeutic resistance and delineates an approach to design novel deimmunized antibodies for autoimmune disease and cancer treatment.
PXD013346	31502464	SUMOylation Landscape of Renal Cortical Collecting Duct Cells. 	SUMOylation proteomic analysis of renal cortical collecting duct cells	SUMOylation, collecting duct, kidney, renal	Protein post-translational modification by the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) is a mechanism that allows a diverse response of cells to stress. Five SUMO family members, SUMO1-5, are expressed in mammals. We hypothesized that because kidney epithelial cells are often subject to stresses arising from various physiological conditions, multiple proteins in the kidney will be SUMOylated. Here, we profiled SUMO1- and SUMO2-modified proteins in a polarized epithelial cell model of the renal cortical collecting duct (mpkCCD14 cells). Modified forms of SUMO1 or SUMO2, with a histidine tag and a Thr to Lys mutation preceding the carboxyl-terminal di-gly motif, were expressed in mpkCCD14 cells, allowing SUMO-conjugated proteins to be purified and identified. Protein mass spectrometry identified 1428 SUMO1 and 1957 SUMO2 sites, corresponding to 741 SUMO1 and 971 SUMO2 proteins. Gene ontology indicated that the function of the majority of SUMOylated proteins in mpkCCD14 cells was related to gene transcription. After treatment of the mpkCCD14 cells for 24 h with aldosterone, the levels of SUMOylation at a specific site on the proton and oligopeptide/antibiotic cotransporter protein Pept2 were greatly increased. In conclusion, the SUMOylation landscape of mpkCCD14 cells suggests that protein modification by SUMOylation is a mechanism within renal epithelial cells to modulate gene transcription under various physiological conditions.
PXD013166	31504521	Identification of Key Pro-Survival Proteins in Isolated Colonic Goblet Cells of Winnie, a Murine Model of Spontaneous Colitis. 	Identification of key pro-survival proteins in the isolated colonic goblet cells of Winnie, a murine model of spontaneous colitis	ER stress, apoptosis, cancer, proliferation, quantitative proteomics, ulcerative colitis	BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence suggests that the goblet cell-derived mucin-2 (Muc2) is a major component of the immune system and that perturbations in Muc2 lead to an ulcerative colitis-like phenotype. The animal model Winnie carries a missense mutation in Muc2 that causes Muc2 misfolding, accumulation in goblet cells, and ER stress. Excessive ER stress is a hallmark of many diseases, including ulcerative colitis, cancer, diabetes and Parkinson's disease. However, rather than committing to cell death, which is the typical outcome of unresolved ER stress, Winnie goblet cells are characterized by hyperproliferation, suggesting additional regulation of this cellular stress response. METHODS: To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying ulcerative colitis in the Winnie model, we isolated goblet cells from Winnie and wild-type mice and used label-free quantitative proteomics and bioinformatics to understand the functional consequences of Muc2 misfolding and accumulation. RESULTS: A large number of changes were identified that highlight a dramatic reprogramming of energy production, including enhanced utilization of butyrate, a key energy source of colonic cells. A major finding was the marked upregulation of the coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain proteins Chchd2, Chchd3, and Chchd6. In particular, we identified and confirmed the upregulation and nuclear translocation of Chchd2, a protein known to inhibit oxidative stress induced apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to apply proteome-level analysis to the preclinical Winnie model of ulcerative colitis. Identification of proteins and pathways affected in isolated Winnie goblet cells provides evidence for novel adaptive mechanisms underlying cell survival under conditions of chronic ER stress.
PXD013225	31504767	RsaC sRNA modulates the oxidative stress response of Staphylococcus aureus during manganese starvation. 	RsaC sRNA modulates the oxidative stress response of Staphylococcus aureus during manganese starvation.	Staphylococcus aureus, nutritional immunity, oxidative stress, reuglatory RNA	The human opportunistic pathogen Staphylococcus aureus produces numerous small regulatory RNAs (sRNAs) for which functions are still poorly understood. Here, we focused on an atypical and large sRNA called RsaC. Its length varies between different isolates due to the presence of repeated sequences at the 5' end while its 3' part is structurally independent and highly conserved. Using MS2-affinity purification coupled with RNA sequencing (MAPS) and quantitative differential proteomics, sodA mRNA was identified as a primary target of RsaC sRNA. SodA is a Mn-dependent superoxide dismutase involved in oxidative stress response. Remarkably, rsaC gene is co-transcribed with the major manganese ABC transporter MntABC and, consequently, RsaC is mainly produced in response to Mn starvation. This 3'UTR-derived sRNA is released from mntABC-RsaC precursor after cleavage by RNase III. The mature and stable form of RsaC inhibits the synthesis of the Mn-containing enzyme SodA synthesis and favors the oxidative stress response mediated by SodM, an alternative SOD enzyme using either Mn or Fe as co-factor. In addition, other putative targets of RsaC are involved in oxidative stress (ROS and NOS) and metal homeostasis (Fe and Zn). Consequently, RsaC may balance two interconnected defensive responses, i.e. oxidative stress and metal-dependent nutritional immunity.
PXD011089	31505169	p38alpha MAPK proximity assay reveals a regulatory mechanism of alternative splicing in cardiomyocytes. 	Proximity assay of p38alpha MAPK reveals alternative splicing regulatory mechanism in cardiomyocyte.	SRSF3, cardiomyocyte, p38 MAPK, splicing	The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway is essential for normal heart function. However, p38 also contributes to heart failure pathogenesis by affecting cardiomyocytes contractility and survival. To unravel part of the complex role of p38 in cardiac function, we performed an APEX2-based proximity assay in cultured neonatal rat ventricular myocytes and identified the protein interaction networks (interactomes) of two highly expressed p38 isoforms in the heart. We found that p38alpha and p38gamma have distinct interactomes in cardiomyocytes under both basal and osmotic stress-activated states. Interestingly, the activated p38alpha interactome contains many RNA-binding proteins implicated in splicing, including the serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 3 (SRSF3). Its interaction with the activated p38alpha was validated by co-immunoprecipitation. The cytoplasmic abundance and alternative splicing function of SRSF3 are also both modulated by the p38 signaling pathway. Our findings reveal a new function for p38 as a specific regulator of SRSF3 in cardiomyocytes.
PXD013617	31505449	Characterization under quasi-native conditions of the capsanthin/capsorubin synthase from Capsicum annuum L. 	Characterization under quasi-native conditions of the capsanthin/capsorubin synthase from Capsicum annuum L.	Capsanthin/capsorubin synthase, Carotenoids, Chromoplast, Fruit ripening, Membrane protein complex, Oxidative stress, Red bell pepper	Chromoplasts are typical plastids of fruits and flowers, deriving from chloroplasts through complex processes of re-organization and recycling. Since this transition leads to the production of reactive species, chromoplasts are characteristic sites for biosynthesis and accumulation of carotenoids and other antioxidants. Here, we have analysed the chromoplast membranes from Capsicum annuum L. fruits, finding a significant expression of the capsanthin/capsorubin synthase. This enzyme was isolated by a very mild procedure allowing its analyses under quasi-native conditions. The isolated complex appeared as a red coloured homo-trimer, suggesting the retention of at least one of the typical carotenoids from C. annuum. Moreover, the protein complex was co-purified with a non-proteinaceous fraction of carotenoid aggregates carrying a high molecular weight and separable only by Size Exclusion Chromatography. This last finding suggested a relationship between the carotenoids synthesis on chromoplast membranes, the presence, and storage of organised carotenoids aggregates typical for chromoplasts. Further MS analyses also provided important hints on the interactome network associated to the capsanthin/capsorubin synthase, confirming its functional relevance during ripening. Results are discussed in the frame of the primary role played by carotenoids in quenching the growing oxidative stress during fruits ripening.
PXD013929	31505730	Lysine Acetylation is an Important Post-Translational Modification that Modulates Heat Shock Response in the Sea Cucumber Apostichopus japonicus. 	Lysine acetylproteome profiling reveals key acetylated proteins involved in heat shock response in the sea cucumber Apostichopus japonicus	Apostichopus japonicus, acetylproteome, heat stress, intestine	Heat stress (HS) is an important factor for the survival of the marine organism Apostichopus japonicus. Lysine acetylation is a pivotal post-translational modification that modulates diverse physiological processes including heat shock response (HSR). In this study, 4028 lysine acetylation sites in 1439 proteins were identified in A. japonicus by acetylproteome sequencing. A total of 13 motifs were characterized around the acetylated lysine sites. Gene Ontology analysis showed that major acetylated protein groups were involved in "oxidation-reduction process", "ribosome", and "protein binding" terms. Compared to the control group, the acetylation quantitation of 25 and 41 lysine sites changed after 6 and 48 h HS. Notably, lysine acetyltransferase CREB-binding protein (CBP) was identified to have differential acetylation quantitation at multiple lysine sites under HS. Various chaperones, such as caseinolytic peptidase B protein homolog (CLBP), T-complex protein 1 (TCP1), and cyclophilin A (CYP1), showed differential acetylation quantitation after 48 h HS. Additionally, many translation-associated proteins, such as ribosomal proteins, translation initiation factor (IF), and elongation factors (EFs), had differential acetylation quantitation under HS. These proteins represented specific interaction networks. Collectively, our results offer novel insight into the complex HSR in A. japonicus and provide a resource for further mechanistic studies examining the regulation of protein function by lysine acetylation.
PXD013652	31506283	Reticulocyte and red blood cell deformation triggers specific phosphorylation events. 	NanoLC-MSMS Phosphoproteomics comparison of in vitro cultured reticulocytes before and after passage through microfluidic capillaries	erythrocyte, erythropoiesis, nanoLC-MSMS, phospho, red blood cell, reticulocyte	The capacity to undergo substantial deformation is a defining characteristic of the red blood cell (RBC), facilitating transit through the splenic interendothelial slits and microvasculature. Establishment of this remarkable property occurs during a process of reticulocyte maturation that begins with egress through micron-wide pores in the bone marrow and is completed within the circulation. The requirement to undertake repeated cycles of deformation necessitates that both reticulocytes and erythrocytes regulate membrane-cytoskeletal protein interactions in order to maintain cellular stability. In the absence of transcriptional activity, modulation of these interactions in RBCs is likely to be achieved primarily through specific protein posttranslational modifications, which at present remain undefined. In this study, we use high-throughput methods to define the processes that underlie the response to deformation and shear stress in both reticulocytes and erythrocytes. Through combination of a bead-based microsphiltration assay with phosphoproteomics we describe posttranslational modification of RBC proteins associated with deformation. Using microsphiltration and microfluidic biochip-based assays, we explore the effect of inhibiting kinases identified using this dataset. We demonstrate roles for GSK3 and Lyn in capillary transit and maintenance of membrane stability following deformation and show that combined inhibition of these kinases significantly decreases reticulocyte capacity to undergo repeated deformation. Finally, we derive a comprehensive and integrative phosphoproteomic dataset that provides a valuable resource for further mechanistic dissection of the molecular pathways that underlie the RBC's response to mechanical stimuli and for the study of reticulocyte maturation.
PXD014135	31506335	Germline Maintenance Through the Multifaceted Activities of GLH/Vasa in Caenorhabditis elegans P Granules. 	Germline maintenance through the multifaceted activities of GLH/Vasa in Caenorhabditis elegans P granules	C. elegans, GLH-1, GLH-1 coIP, Vasa	Vasa homologs are ATP-dependent DEAD-box helicases, multipotency factors, and critical components that specify and protect the germline. They regulate translation, amplify piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), and act as RNA solvents; however, the limited availability of mutagenesis-derived alleles and their wide range of phenotypes have complicated their analysis. Now, with clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR/Cas9), these limitations can be mitigated to determine why protein domains have been lost or retained throughout evolution. Here, we define the functional motifs of GLH-1/Vasa in Caenorhabditis elegans using 28 endogenous, mutant alleles. We show that GLH-1's helicase activity is required to retain its association with P granules. GLH-1 remains in P granules when changes are made outside of the helicase and flanking domains, but fertility is still compromised. Removal of the glycine-rich repeats from GLH proteins progressively diminishes P-granule wetting-like interactions at the nuclear periphery. Mass spectrometry of GLH-1-associated proteins implies conservation of a transient piRNA-amplifying complex, and reveals a novel affinity between GLH-1 and three structurally conserved PCI (26S Proteasome Lid, COP9, and eIF3) complexes or "zomes," along with a reciprocal aversion for assembled ribosomes and the 26S proteasome. These results suggest that P granules compartmentalize the cytoplasm to exclude large protein assemblies, effectively shielding associated transcripts from translation and associated proteins from turnover. Within germ granules, Vasa homologs may act as solvents, ensuring mRNA accessibility by small RNA surveillance and amplification pathways, and facilitating mRNA export through germ granules to initiate translation.
PXD011884	31507578	Proteomic Response to Rising Temperature in the Marine Cyanobacterium Synechococcus Grown in Different Nitrogen Sources. 	Synechococcus IBT LC-MS/MS -  Proteomic Response to Rising Temperature in the Marine Cyanobacterium Synechococcus Grown in Different Nitrogen Sources	IBT, Synechococcus	Synechococcus is one of the most important contributors to global primary productivity, and ocean warming is predicted to increase abundance and distribution of Synechococcus in the ocean. Here, we investigated molecular response of an oceanic Synechococcus strain WH8102 grown in two nitrogen sources (nitrate and urea) under present (25degreesC) and predicted future (28degreesC) temperature conditions using an isobaric tag (IBT)-based quantitative proteomic approach. Rising temperature decreased growth rate, contents of chlorophyll a, protein and sugar in the nitrate-grown cells, but only decreased protein content and significantly increased zeaxanthin content of the urea-grown cells. Expressions of CsoS2 protein involved in carboxysome formation and ribosomal subunits in both nitrate- and urea-grown cells were significantly decreased in rising temperature, whereas carbohydrate selective porin and sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) were remarkably up-regulated, and carbohydrate degradation associated proteins, i.e., glycogen phosphorylase kinase, fructokinase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, were down-regulated in the urea-grown cells. Rising temperature also increased expressions of three redox-sensitive enzymes (peroxiredoxin, thioredoxin, and CP12) in both nitrate- and urea-grown cells. Our results indicated that rising temperature did not enhance cell growth of Synechococcus; on the contrary, it impaired cell functions, and this might influence cell abundance and distribution of Synechococcus in a future ocean.
PXD007777	31508380	iTRAQ-Based Global Phosphoproteomics Reveals Novel Molecular Differences Between Toxoplasma gondii Strains of Different Genotypes. 	iTRAQ-based Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Revealed Differences in Phosphorylation Modification Between Different Toxoplasma gondii Genotypes	Differentially expressed phosphoprotein (DPP), Genotype, Phosphoproteomics, Tachyzoite, Toxoplasma gondii, iTRAQ	To gain insights into differences in the virulence among T. gondii strains at the post-translational level, we conducted a quantitative analysis of the phosphoproteome profile of T. gondii strains belonging to three different genotypes. Phosphopeptides from three strains, type I (RH strain), type II (PRU strain) and ToxoDB#9 (PYS strain), were enriched by titanium dioxide (TiO2) affinity chromatography and quantified using iTRAQ technology. A total of 1,441 phosphopeptides, 1,250 phosphorylation sites and 759 phosphoproteins were detected. In addition, 392, 298, and 436 differentially expressed phosphoproteins (DEPs) were identified in RH strain when comparing RH/PRU strains, in PRU strain when comparing PRU/PYS strains, and in PYS strain when comparing PYS/RH strains, respectively. Functional characterization of the DEPs using GO, KEGG, and STRING analyses revealed marked differences between the three strains. In silico kinase substrate motif analysis of the DEPs revealed three (RxxS, SxxE, and SxxxE), three (RxxS, SxxE, and SP), and five (SxxE, SP, SxE, LxRxxS, and RxxS) motifs in RH strain when comparing RH/PRU strains, in PRU strain when comparing PRU/PYS, and in PYS strain when comparing PYS/RH strains, respectively. This suggests that multiple overrepresented protein kinases including PKA, PKG, CKII, IKK, and MAPK could be involved in such a difference between T. gondii strains. Kinase associated network analysis showed that ROP5, ROP16, and cell-cycle-associated protein kinase CDK were the most connected kinase peptides. Our data reveal significant changes in the abundance of phosphoproteins between T. gondii genotypes, which explain some of the mechanisms that contribute to the virulence heterogeneity of this parasite.
PXD012162	31508500	Proteomic profiling of extracellular vesicles allows for human breast cancer subtyping. 	Proteomic profiling of breast cancer-derived extracellular vesicles	Breast Cancer, Extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are a potential source of disease-associated biomarkers for diagnosis. In breast cancer, comprehensive analyses of EVs could yield robust and reliable subtype-specific biomarkers that are still critically needed to improve diagnostic routines and clinical outcome. Here, we show that proteome profiles of EVs secreted by different breast cancer cell lines are highly indicative of their respective molecular subtypes, even more so than the proteome changes within the cancer cells. Moreover, we detected molecular evidence for subtype-specific biological processes and molecular pathways, hyperphosphorylated receptors and kinases in connection with the disease, and compiled a set of protein signatures that closely reflect the associated clinical pathophysiology. These unique features revealed in our work, replicated in clinical material, collectively demonstrate the potential of secreted EVs to differentiate between breast cancer subtypes and show the prospect of their use as non-invasive liquid biopsies for diagnosis and management of breast cancer patients.
PXD014960	31510041	An Integrated Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis Reveals New Insights into Russeting of Bagging and Non-Bagging "Golden Delicious" Apple. 	An Integrated Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis Reveals New Insights of Fruit Russeting Formation in Golden Delicious' Apple	fruit russeting formation, lignin biosynthesis, transcriptome, Golden Delicious' apple	Apple skin russeting naturally occurs in many varieties, particularly in "Golden Delicious" and its pedigree, and is regarded as a non-invasive physiological disorder partly caused by excessive deposition of lignin. However, the understanding of its molecular mechanism is still limited. In this study, we used iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation) and RNA-seq to detect the changes in the expression levels of genes and proteins in three developmental stages of russeting formation, in russeted (non-bagging) and non-russeted (bagging) skin of "Golden Delicious" apple. 2856 differentially expressed genes and 942 differentially expressed proteins in the comparison groups were detected at the transcript level and protein level, respectively. A correlation analysis of the transcriptomics and proteomics data revealed that four genes (MD03G1059200, MD08G1009200, MD17G1092400, and MD17G1225100) involved in lignin biosynthesis are significant changed during apple russeting formation. Additionally, 92 transcription factors, including 4 LIM transcription factors, may be involved in apple russeting formation. Among them, one LIM transcription factor (MD15G1068200) was capable of binding to the PAL-box like (CCACTTGAGTAC) element, which indicated it was potentially involved in lignin biosynthesis. This study will provide further views on the molecular mechanisms controlling apple russeting formation.
PXD015178	31511322	Unexpected roles for ADH1 and SORD in catalyzing the final step of erythritol biosynthesis. 	Rabbit Liver LC-MS/MS for characterization of two important proteins.	Liver, Protein identification, Rabbit	The low-calorie sweetener erythritol is endogenously produced from glucose through the pentose phosphate pathway in humans. Erythritol is of medical interest because elevated plasma levels of this polyol are predictive for visceral adiposity gain and development of type 2 diabetes. However, the mechanisms behind these associations remain unknown because the erythritol biosynthesis pathway, particularly the enzyme catalyzing the final step of erythritol synthesis (reduction of erythrose to erythritol), is not characterized. In this study, we purified two enzymes from rabbit liver capable of catalyzing the conversion of erythrose to erythritol: alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (ADH1) and sorbitol dehydrogenase (SORD). Both recombinant human ADH1 and SORD reduce erythrose to erythritol, using NADPH as a co-factor, and cell culture studies indicate that this activity is primarily NADPH-dependent. We found that ADH1 variants vary markedly in both their affinity for erythrose and their catalytic capacity (turnover number). Interestingly, the recombinant protein produced from the ADH1B2 variant, common in Asian populations, is not active when NADPH is used as a co-factor in vitro We also confirmed SORD contributes to intracellular erythritol production in human A549 lung cancer cells, where ADH1 is minimally expressed. In summary, human ADH1 and SORD catalyze the conversion of erythrose to erythritol, pointing to novel roles for two dehydrogenase proteins in human glucose metabolism that may contribute to individual responses to diet. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015178.
PXD007542	31511529	Putative link between Polo-like kinases (PLKs) and Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling in transformed and primary human immune cells. 	The immune receptor TLR2 directly binds and signals immune activation to oligomeric chitin	Chitin, Macrophage, Pam2CSK4, Phosphoproteomics, THP-1, TLR	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are important sentinels of bacterial and viral infection and thus fulfil a critical sensory role in innate immunity. Polo-like kinases (PLKs), a five membered family of Ser/Thr protein kinases, have long been studied for their role in mitosis and thus represent attractive therapeutic targets in cancer therapy. Recently, PLKs were implicated in TLR signaling in mice but the role of PLKs in TLR signaling in untransformed primary immune cells has not been addressed, even though PLK inhibitors are in clinical trials. We here identified several phospho-serine and phospho-threonine residues in the known TLR pathway kinases, Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) 2 and IRAK4. These sites lie in canonical polo-box motifs (PBM), sequence motifs known to direct recruitment of PLKs to client proteins. Interestingly, PLK1 was phosphorylated and PLK 2 and 3 mRNA induced upon TLR stimulation in primary immune cells, respectively. In whole blood, PLK inhibition disparately affected TLR mediated cytokine responses in a donor- and inhibitor-dependent fashion. Collectively, PLKs may thus potentially interface with TLR signaling in humans. We propose that temporary PLK inhibitor-mediated blockade of TLR-signaling in certain patients receiving such inhibitors during cancer treatment may cause adverse effects such as an increased risk of infections due to a then compromised ability of the TLR recognition system to sense and initiate cytokine responses to invading microbes.
PXD012587	31511583	Enamel peptides reveal the sex of the Late Antique 'Lovers of Modena'. 	Human enamel peptides LC-MS/MS.	archaeology, enamel, peptides, sex	Recent work has disclosed the critical role played by enamel peptides in sex classification of old skeletal remains. In particular, protein AMELY (amelogenin isoform Y) is present in the enamel dental tissue of male individuals only, while AMELX (isoform X) can be found in both sexes. AMELY can be easily detected by LC-MS/MS in the ion extracted chromatograms of the SM(ox)IRPPY peptide (monoisotopic [M + 2 H](+2) mass = 440.2233 m/z). In this paper, we exploited the dimorphic features of the amelogenin protein to determine the sex of the so-called 'Lovers of Modena', two Late Antique individuals whose skeletons were intentionally buried hand-in-hand. Upon discovery, mass media had immediately assumed they were a male-female couple, even if bad preservation of the bones did not allow an effective sex classification. We were able to extract proteins from the dental enamel of both individuals (~1600 years old) and to confidently classify them as males. Results were compared to 14 modern and archaeological control samples, confirming the reliability of the ion chromatogram method for sex determination. Although we currently have no information on the actual relationship between the 'Lovers of Modena' (affective? Kin-based?), the discovery of two adult males intentionally buried hand-in-hand may have profound implications for our understanding of funerary practices in Late Antique Italy.
PXD012755	31511657	Proteomic Investigations of Autism Brain Identify Known and Novel Pathogenetic Processes. 	Proteomic Explorations of Autism Brain - Part 1	ASD, Autism, neurodevelopment	Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a set of heterogeneous neurodevelopmental conditions defined by impairments in social communication and restricted, repetitive behaviors, interests or activities. Only a minority of ASD cases are determined to have a definitive etiology and the pathogenesis of most ASD is poorly understood. We hypothesized that a global analysis of the proteomes of human ASD vs. control brain, heretofore not done, would provide important data with which to better understand the underlying neurobiology of autism. In this study, we characterized the proteomes of two brain regions, Brodmann area 19 (BA19) and posterior inferior cerebellum (CB), from carefully selected idiopathic ASD cases and matched controls using label-free HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry. The data revealed marked differences between ASD and control brain proteomes for both brain regions. Unlike earlier transcriptomic analyses using frontal and temporal cortex, however, our proteomic analysis did not support ASD attenuating regional gene expression differences. Bioinformatic analyses of the differentially expressed proteins between cases and controls highlighted canonical pathways involving glutamate receptor signaling and glutathione-mediated detoxification in both BA19 and CB; other pathways such as Sertoli cell signaling and fatty acid oxidation were specifically enriched in BA19 or CB, respectively. Network analysis of both regions of ASD brain showed up-regulation of multiple pre- and post-synaptic membrane or scaffolding proteins including glutamatergic ion channels and related proteins, up-regulation of proteins involved in intracellular calcium signaling, and down-regulation of neurofilament proteins, with DLG4 and MAPT as major hub proteins in BA19 and CB protein interaction networks, respectively. Upstream regulator analysis suggests neurodegeneration-associated proteins drive the differential protein expression for ASD in both BA19 and CB. Overall, the proteomic data provide support for shared dysregulated pathways and upstream regulators for two brain regions in human ASD brain, suggesting a common ASD pathophysiology that has distinctive regional expression.
PXD014828	31511697	DDX3X acts as a live-or-die checkpoint in stressed cells by regulating NLRP3 inflammasome. 	DDX3X Acts as a Live or Die Checkpoint in Stressed Cells by Regulating NLRP3 Inflammasome	ASC specks, DDX3X, IL-18, IL-1beta, NLRP3, caspase-1, cytoplasmic compartments, inflammasome, proinflammatory cytokines, pyroptosis, stress granules	The cellular stress response has a vital role in regulating homeostasis by modulating cell survival and death. Stress granules are cytoplasmic compartments that enable cells to survive various stressors. Defects in the assembly and disassembly of stress granules are linked to neurodegenerative diseases, aberrant antiviral responses and cancer(1-5). Inflammasomes are multi-protein heteromeric complexes that sense molecular patterns that are associated with damage or intracellular pathogens, and assemble into cytosolic compartments known as ASC specks to facilitate the activation of caspase-1. Activation of inflammasomes induces the secretion of interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-18 and drives cell fate towards pyroptosis-a form of programmed inflammatory cell death that has major roles in health and disease(6-12). Although both stress granules and inflammasomes can be triggered by the sensing of cellular stress, they drive contrasting cell-fate decisions. The crosstalk between stress granules and inflammasomes and how this informs cell fate has not been well-studied. Here we show that the induction of stress granules specifically inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation, ASC speck formation and pyroptosis. The stress granule protein DDX3X interacts with NLRP3 to drive inflammasome activation. Assembly of stress granules leads to the sequestration of DDX3X, and thereby the inhibition of NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Stress granules and the NLRP3 inflammasome compete for DDX3X molecules to coordinate the activation of innate responses and subsequent cell-fate decisions under stress conditions. Induction of stress granules or loss of DDX3X in the myeloid compartment leads to a decrease in the production of inflammasome-dependent cytokines in vivo. Our findings suggest that macrophages use the availability of DDX3X to interpret stress signals and choose between pro-survival stress granules and pyroptotic ASC specks. Together, our data demonstrate the role of DDX3X in driving NLRP3 inflammasome and stress granule assembly, and suggest a rheostat-like mechanistic paradigm for regulating live-or-die cell-fate decisions under stress conditions.
PXD011008	31511700	Early Pleistocene enamel proteome from Dmanisi resolves Stephanorhinus phylogeny. 	Early Pleistocene enamel proteome sequences from Dmanisi resolve Stephanorhinus phylogeny	Dmanisi, Palaeoproteomics, Stephanorhinus, bone, dentine, enamel	The sequencing of ancient DNA has enabled the reconstruction of speciation, migration and admixture events for extinct taxa(1). However, the irreversible post-mortem degradation(2) of ancient DNA has so far limited its recovery-outside permafrost areas-to specimens that are not older than approximately 0.5 million years (Myr)(3). By contrast, tandem mass spectrometry has enabled the sequencing of approximately 1.5-Myr-old collagen type I(4), and suggested the presence of protein residues in fossils of the Cretaceous period(5)-although with limited phylogenetic use(6). In the absence of molecular evidence, the speciation of several extinct species of the Early and Middle Pleistocene epoch remains contentious. Here we address the phylogenetic relationships of the Eurasian Rhinocerotidae of the Pleistocene epoch(7-9), using the proteome of dental enamel from a Stephanorhinus tooth that is approximately 1.77-Myr old, recovered from the archaeological site of Dmanisi (South Caucasus, Georgia)(10). Molecular phylogenetic analyses place this Stephanorhinus as a sister group to the clade formed by the woolly rhinoceros (Coelodonta antiquitatis) and Merck's rhinoceros (Stephanorhinus kirchbergensis). We show that Coelodonta evolved from an early Stephanorhinus lineage, and that this latter genus includes at least two distinct evolutionary lines. The genus Stephanorhinus is therefore currently paraphyletic, and its systematic revision is needed. We demonstrate that sequencing the proteome of Early Pleistocene dental enamel overcomes the limitations of phylogenetic inference based on ancient collagen or DNA. Our approach also provides additional information about the sex and taxonomic assignment of other specimens from Dmanisi. Our findings reveal that proteomic investigation of ancient dental enamel-which is the hardest tissue in vertebrates(11), and is highly abundant in the fossil record-can push the reconstruction of molecular evolution further back into the Early Pleistocene epoch, beyond the currently known limits of ancient DNA preservation.
PXD013263	31511893	At least two molecules of the RNA helicase Has1 are simultaneously present in pre-ribosomes during ribosome biogenesis. 	Role of Has1 RNA helicase in ribosome biogenesis in yeast S. cerevisiae	RNA helicase, RNA processing, ribosome biogenesis	The RNA helicase Has1 is involved in the biogenesis of both small and large ribosomal subunits. How it performs these separate roles is not fully understood. Here we provide evidence that at least two molecules of Has1 are temporarily present at the same time in 90S pre-ribosomes. We identified multiple Has1 binding sites in the 18S, 5.8S and 25S rRNAs. We show that while the Has1 catalytic activity is not required for binding to 5.8S/25S region in pre-rRNA, it is essential for binding to 18S sites. After the cleavage of pre-rRNA at the A2 site, Has1 remains associated not only with pre-60S but, unexpectedly, also with pre-40S ribosomes. The recruitment to 90S/pre-40S and pre-60S ribosomes is mutually independent. Our data provides insight into how Has1 performs its separate functions in the synthesis of both ribosomal subunits.
PXD013636	31513346	The Tumor Suppressor SCRIB is a Negative Modulator of the Wnt/beta-Catenin Signaling Pathway. 	The tumor suppressor SCRIB is a negative modulator of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling (part 2)	MG132, SCRIB, proteomics analysis	SCRIB is a scaffold protein containing leucine-rich repeats (LRR) and PSD-95/Dlg-A/ZO-1 domains (PDZ) that localizes at the basolateral membranes of polarized epithelial cells. Deregulation of its expression or localization leads to epithelial defects and tumorigenesis in part as a consequence of its repressive role on several signaling pathways including AKT, ERK, and HIPPO. In the present work, a proteomic approach is used to characterize the protein complexes associated to SCRIB and its paralogue LANO. Common and specific sets of proteins associated to SCRIB and LANO by MS are identified and an extensive landscape of their associated networks and the first comparative analysis of their respective interactomes are provided. Under proteasome inhibition, it is further found that SCRIB is associated to the beta-catenin destruction complex that is central in Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, a conserved pathway regulating embryonic development and cancer progression. It is shown that the SCRIB/beta-catenin interaction is potentiated upon Wnt3a stimulation and that SCRIB plays a repressing role on Wnt signaling. The data thus provide evidence for the importance of SCRIB in the regulation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway.
PXD014949	31513600	Computational and experimental analysis of the glycophosphatidylinositol-anchored proteome of the human parasitic nematode Brugia malayi. 	Brugia malayi glycophosphatidylinositol-anchored proteome	Brugia malayi, GPI-AP, PI-PLC, glycophosphatidylinositol, membrane, phosphatidylinositol specific phospholipase C	Further characterization of essential systems in the parasitic filarial nematode Brugia malayi is needed to better understand its biology, its interaction with its hosts, and to identify critical components that can be exploited to develop novel treatments. The production of glycophosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) is essential for eukaryotic cellular and physiological function. In addition, GPI-APs perform many important roles for cells. In this study, we characterized the B. malayi GPI-anchored proteome using both computational and experimental approaches. We used bioinformatic strategies to show the presence or absence of B. malayi GPI-AP biosynthetic pathway genes and to compile a putative B. malayi GPI-AP proteome using available prediction programs. We verified these in silico analyses using proteomics to identify GPI-AP candidates prepared from the surface of intact worms and from membrane enriched extracts. Our study represents the first description of the GPI-anchored proteome in B. malayi and lays the groundwork for further exploration of this essential protein modification as a target for novel anthelmintic therapeutic strategies.
PXD012585	31513632	Comparative compositional and functional analyses of Bothrops moojeni specimens reveal several individual variations. 	Comparative proteomics and biochemical analysis of venom of thirteen Bothrops moojeni specimens reveal several individual variations	Bothrops moojeni, envenomation, intraspecific venom variability, snake plasma, snake venom	Snake venoms are complex protein mixtures with different biological activities that can act in both their preys and human victims. Many of these proteins play a role in prey capture and in the digestive process of these animals. It is known that some snakes are resistant to the toxicity of their own venom by mechanisms not yet fully elucidated. However, it was observed in the Laboratory of Herpetology of Instituto Butantan that some Bothrops moojeni individuals injured by the same snake species showed mortalities caused by envenoming effects. This study analyzed the biochemical composition of 13 venom and plasma samples from Bothrops moojeni specimens to assess differences in their protein composition. Application of sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) showed distinct venom protein profiles, but very homogeneous plasma profiles. Western Blotting (WB) was performed with plasma samples, which were submitted to incubation with the respective venom. Some individuals showed an immunorecognized band zone around 25 kDa, indicating interaction between the same individual plasma and venom proteins. Crossed-WB assay using non-self-plasma and venom showed that this variability is due to venom protein composition instead of plasma composition. These venoms presented higher caseinolytic, collagenolytic and coagulant activities than the venoms without these regions recognized by WB. Mass spectrometry analyses performed on two individuals revealed that these individuals present, in addition to higher protein concentrations, other exclusive proteins in their composition. When these same two samples were tested in vivo, the results also showed higher lethality in these venoms, but lower hemorrhagic activity than in the venoms without these regions recognized by WB. In conclusion, some Bothrops moojeni specimens differ in venom composition, which may have implications in envenomation. Moreover, the high individual venom variability found in this species demonstrates the importance to work with individual analyses in studies involving intraspecific venom variability and venom evolution.
PXD013328	31515267	Ligand-dependent spatiotemporal signaling profiles of the mu-opioid receptor are controlled by distinct protein-interaction networks. 	Ligand-dependent spatiotemporal signaling profiles of the mu-opioid receptor are controlled by distinct protein-protein interaction networks	G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), Rasrelated C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1), cell compartmentalization, desmosome, extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), opioid, protein complex	Ligand-dependent differences in the regulation and internalization of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) have been linked to the severity of adverse effects that limit opiate use in pain management. MOR activation by morphine or [d-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4), Gly-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO) causes differences in spatiotemporal signaling dependent on MOR distribution at the plasma membrane. Morphine stimulation of MOR activates a Galphai/o-Gbetagamma-protein kinase C (PKC) alpha phosphorylation pathway that limits MOR distribution and is associated with a sustained increase in cytosolic extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity. In contrast, DAMGO causes a redistribution of the MOR at the plasma membrane (before receptor internalization) that facilitates transient activation of cytosolic and nuclear ERK. Here, we used proximity biotinylation proteomics to dissect the different protein-interaction networks that underlie the spatiotemporal signaling of morphine and DAMGO. We found that DAMGO, but not morphine, activates Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1). Both Rac1 and nuclear ERK activity depended on the scaffolding proteins IQ motif-containing GTPase-activating protein-1 (IQGAP1) and Crk-like (CRKL) protein. In contrast, morphine increased the proximity of the MOR to desmosomal proteins, which form specialized and highly-ordered membrane domains. Knockdown of two desmosomal proteins, junction plakoglobin or desmocolin-1, switched the morphine spatiotemporal signaling profile to mimic that of DAMGO, resulting in a transient increase in nuclear ERK activity. The identification of the MOR-interaction networks that control differential spatiotemporal signaling reported here is an important step toward understanding how signal compartmentalization contributes to opioid-induced responses, including anti-nociception and the development of tolerance and dependence.
PXD011988	31515389	Mitoribosomal small subunit biogenesis in trypanosomes involves an extensive assembly machinery. 	Discovery and structure of the mitoribosomal SSU assemblosome in trypanosomes	mitochondria, mitochondrial ribosome, trypanosomes	Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) are large ribonucleoprotein complexes that synthesize proteins encoded by the mitochondrial genome. An extensive cellular machinery responsible for ribosome assembly has been described only for eukaryotic cytosolic ribosomes. Here we report that the assembly of the small mitoribosomal subunit in Trypanosoma brucei involves a large number of factors and proceeds through the formation of assembly intermediates, which we analyzed by using cryo-electron microscopy. One of them is a 4-megadalton complex, referred to as the small subunit assemblosome, in which we identified 34 factors that interact with immature ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and recognize its functionally important regions. The assembly proceeds through large-scale conformational changes in rRNA coupled with successive incorporation of mitoribosomal proteins, providing an example for the complexity of the ribosomal assembly process in mitochondria.
PXD012949	31515493	Nuclear decoupling is part of a rapid protein-level cellular response to high-intensity mechanical loading. 	Primary Human MSCs subjected to 1 hr intense cyclic tensile strain with/without 24 hr recovery	FlexCell, MSC, strain	Studies of cellular mechano-signaling have often utilized static models that do not fully replicate the dynamics of living tissues. Here, we examine the time-dependent response of primary human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) to cyclic tensile strain (CTS). At low-intensity strain (1 h, 4% CTS at 1 Hz), cell characteristics mimic responses to increased substrate stiffness. As the strain regime is intensified (frequency increased to 5 Hz), we characterize rapid establishment of a broad, structured and reversible protein-level response, even as transcription is apparently downregulated. Protein abundance is quantified coincident with changes to protein conformation and post-translational modification (PTM). Furthermore, we characterize changes to the linker of nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton (LINC) complex that bridges the nuclear envelope, and specifically to levels and PTMs of Sad1/UNC-84 (SUN) domain-containing protein 2 (SUN2). The result of this regulation is to decouple mechano-transmission between the cytoskeleton and the nucleus, thus conferring protection to chromatin.
PXD014119	31515872	The Sir4 H-BRCT domain interacts with phospho-proteins to sequester and repress yeast heterochromatin. 	Sir4 H-BRCT domain interacts with multiple phospho-proteins to regulate heterochromatic repression	BRCT, Dbf4, SIR complex, Tom1, heterochromatin	In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the silent information regulator (SIR) proteins Sir2/3/4 form a complex that suppresses transcription in subtelomeric regions and at the homothallic mating-type (HM) loci. Here, we identify a non-canonical BRCA1 C-terminal domain (H-BRCT) in Sir4, which is responsible for tethering telomeres to the nuclear periphery. We show that Sir4 H-BRCT and the closely related Dbf4 H-BRCT serve as selective phospho-epitope recognition domains that bind to a variety of phosphorylated target peptides. We present detailed structural information about the binding mode of established Sir4 interactors (Esc1, Ty5, Ubp10) and identify several novel interactors of Sir4 H-BRCT, including the E3 ubiquitin ligase Tom1. Based on these findings, we propose a phospho-peptide consensus motif for interaction with Sir4 H-BRCT and Dbf4 H-BRCT. Ablation of the Sir4 H-BRCT phospho-peptide interaction disrupts SIR-mediated repression and perinuclear localization. In conclusion, the Sir4 H-BRCT domain serves as a hub for recruitment of phosphorylated target proteins to heterochromatin to properly regulate silencing and nuclear order.
PXD005143	31516400	N-GlycositeAtlas: a database resource for mass spectrometry-based human N-linked glycoprotein and glycosylation site mapping. 	N-GlycositeAtlas, a database resource for mass spectrometry-based human N-linked glycoproteins and glycosylation sites	database, glycoprotein, glycoproteome, protein glycosylation	BACKGROUND: N-linked glycoprotein is a highly interesting class of proteins for clinical and biological research. The large-scale characterization of N-linked glycoproteins accomplished by mass spectrometry-based glycoproteomics has provided valuable insights into the interdependence of glycoprotein structure and protein function. However, these studies focused mainly on the analysis of specific sample type, and lack the integration of glycoproteomic data from different tissues, body fluids or cell types. METHODS: In this study, we collected the human glycosite-containing peptides identified through their de-glycosylated forms by mass spectrometry from over 100 publications and unpublished datasets generated from our laboratory. A database resource termed N-GlycositeAtlas was created and further used for the distribution analyses of glycoproteins among different human cells, tissues and body fluids. Finally, a web interface of N-GlycositeAtlas was created to maximize the utility and value of the database. RESULTS: The N-GlycositeAtlas database contains more than 30,000 glycosite-containing peptides (representing > 14,000 N-glycosylation sites) from more than 7200 N-glycoproteins from different biological sources including human-derived tissues, body fluids and cell lines from over 100 studies. CONCLUSIONS: The entire human N-glycoproteome database as well as 22 sub-databases associated with individual tissues or body fluids can be downloaded from the N-GlycositeAtlas website at http://nglycositeatlas.biomarkercenter.org.
PXD013956	31518892	Cannabidiol induces antioxidant pathways in keratinocytes by targeting BACH1. 	SWATH-MS proteomic analysis of primary human keratinocytes exposed to Cannabidiol	Cannabidiol, Keratinocytes, SWATH	Cannabidiol (CBD) is a major non-psychotropic phytocannabinoid that attracted a great attention for its therapeutic potential against different pathologies including skin diseases. However, although the efficacy in preclinical models and the clinical benefits of CBD in humans have been extensively demonstrated, the molecular mechanism(s) and targets responsible for these effects are as yet unknown. Herein we characterized at the molecular level the effects of CBD on primary human keratinocytes using a combination of RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS). Functional analysis revealed that CBD regulated pathways involved in keratinocyte differentiation, skin development and epidermal cell differentiation among other processes. In addition, CBD induced the expression of several NRF2 target genes, with heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1) being the gene and the protein most upregulated by CBD. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing, RNA interference and biochemical studies demonstrated that the induction of HMOX1 mediated by CBD, involved nuclear export and proteasomal degradation of the transcriptional repressor BACH1. Notably, we showed that the effect of BACH1 on HMOX1 expression in keratinocytes is independent of NRF2. In vivo studies showed that topical CBD increased the levels of HMOX1 and of the proliferation and wound-repair associated keratins 16 and 17 in the skin of mice. Altogether, our study identifies BACH1 as a molecular target for CBD in keratinocytes and sets the basis for the use of topical CBD for the treatment of different skin diseases including atopic dermatitis and keratin disorders.
PXD015391	31519753	Human cardiac myosin-binding protein C restricts actin structural dynamics in a cooperative and phosphorylation-sensitive manner. 	Human MyBP-C PKA-treated C0-C2 LC-MSMS	C0-C2, C0C2, PKA, cMyBP-C, myosin binding protein C, phosphorylated	Cardiac myosin-binding protein C (cMyBP-C) is a thick filament-associated protein that influences actin-myosin interactions. cMyBP-C alters myofilament structure and contractile properties in a protein kinase A (PKA) phosphorylation-dependent manner. To determine the effects of cMyBP-C and its phosphorylation on the microsecond rotational dynamics of actin filaments, we attached a phosphorescent probe to F-actin at Cys-374 and performed transient phosphorescence anisotropy (TPA) experiments. Binding of cMyBP-C N-terminal domains (C0-C2) to labeled F-actin reduced rotational flexibility by 20-25degrees, indicated by increased final anisotropy of the TPA decay. The effects of C0-C2 on actin TPA were highly cooperative (n = ~8), suggesting that the cMyBP-C N terminus impacts the rotational dynamics of actin spanning seven monomers (i.e. the length of tropomyosin). PKA-mediated phosphorylation of C0-C2 eliminated the cooperative effects on actin flexibility and modestly increased actin rotational rates. Effects of Ser to Asp phosphomimetic substitutions in the M-domain of C0-C2 on actin dynamics only partially recapitulated the phosphorylation effects. C0-C1 (lacking M-domain/C2) similarly exhibited reduced cooperativity, but not as reduced as by phosphorylated C0-C2. These results suggest an important regulatory role of the M-domain in cMyBP-C effects on actin structural dynamics. In contrast, phosphomimetic substitution of the glycogen synthase kinase (GSK3beta) site in the Pro/Ala-rich linker of C0-C2 did not significantly affect the TPA results. We conclude that cMyBP-C binding and PKA-mediated phosphorylation can modulate actin dynamics. We propose that these N-terminal cMyBP-C-induced changes in actin dynamics help explain the functional effects of cMyBP-C phosphorylation on actin-myosin interactions.
PXD011085	31519768	Anticancer Effect of Deuterium Depleted Water - Redox Disbalance Leads to Oxidative Stress. 	Anticancer effect of deuterium depleted water - comprehensive proteomics analysis suggests a redox disbalance mechanism	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, anticancer, deuterium depleted water, redox disbalance	Despite the convincing empirical evidence that deuterium depleted water (DDW, 25-125 ppm deuterium) has anticancer effect, the molecular mechanism remains unclear. Here, redox proteomics investigation of the DDW action in A549 cells revealed an increased level of oxidative stress, whereas expression proteomics in combination with thermal profiling uncovered crucial role of mitochondrial proteins. In the proposed scenario, reversal of the normally positive deuterium gradient across the inner membrane leads to an increased export of protons from the matrix to intermembrane space and an increase in the mitochondrial membrane potential, enhancing the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The resulting oxidative stress leads to slower growth and can induce apoptosis. However, further deuterium depletion in ambient water triggers a feedback mechanism, which leads to restoration of the redox equilibrium and resumed growth. The DDW-induced oxidative stress, verified by traditional biochemical assays, may be helpful as an adjuvant to ROS-inducing anticancer therapy.
PXD014829	31519908	Selective autophagy maintains centrosome integrity and accurate mitosis by turnover of centriolar satellites. 	Selective autophagy maintains centrosome integrity and accurate mitosis by turnover of centriolar satellites	Autophagy, CEP131, GABARAP, PCM1, centriolar satellites, centrosome, centrosome fragmentation, mitosis, selective autophagy	The centrosome is the master orchestrator of mitotic spindle formation and chromosome segregation in animal cells. Centrosome abnormalities are frequently observed in cancer, but little is known of their origin and about pathways affecting centrosome homeostasis. Here we show that autophagy preserves centrosome organization and stability through selective turnover of centriolar satellite components, a process we termed doryphagy. Autophagy targets the satellite organizer PCM1 by interacting with GABARAPs via a C-terminal LIR motif. Accordingly, autophagy deficiency results in accumulation of large abnormal centriolar satellites and a resultant dysregulation of centrosome composition. These alterations have critical impact on centrosome stability and lead to mitotic centrosome fragmentation and unbalanced chromosome segregation. Our findings identify doryphagy as an important centrosome-regulating pathway and bring mechanistic insights to the link between autophagy dysfunction and chromosomal instability. In addition, we highlight the vital role of centriolar satellites in maintaining centrosome integrity.
PXD011799	31519915	B cells sustain inflammation and predict response to immune checkpoint blockade in human melanoma. 	B cells sustain inflammation in human melanoma	inflammatory tumor microenvironment, melanoma	Tumor associated inflammation predicts response to immune checkpoint blockade in human melanoma. Current theories on regulation of inflammation center on anti-tumor T cell responses. Here we show that tumor associated B cells are vital to melanoma associated inflammation. Human B cells express pro- and anti-inflammatory factors and differentiate into plasmablast-like cells when exposed to autologous melanoma secretomes in vitro. This plasmablast-like phenotype can be reconciled in human melanomas where plasmablast-like cells also express T cell-recruiting chemokines CCL3, CCL4, CCL5. Depletion of B cells in melanoma patients by anti-CD20 immunotherapy decreases tumor associated inflammation and CD8(+) T cell numbers. Plasmablast-like cells also increase PD-1(+) T cell activation through anti-PD-1 blockade in vitro and their frequency in pretherapy melanomas predicts response and survival to immune checkpoint blockade. Tumor associated B cells therefore orchestrate and sustain melanoma inflammation and may represent a predictor for survival and response to immune checkpoint blockade therapy.
PXD014253	31520135	Ligandomes obtained from different HLA-class II-molecules are homologous for N- and C-terminal residues outside the peptide-binding cleft. 	The HLA-DRB1*03:01 ligandome is highly conserved on N- and C-terminal residues outside the peptide-binding cleft	DUCAF, HLA-DRB1*03:01	Human CD4+ T lymphocytes play an important role in inducing potent immune responses. T cells are activated and stimulated by peptides presented in human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-class II molecules. These HLA-class II molecules typically present peptides of between 12 and 20 amino acids in length. The region that interacts with the HLA molecule, designated as the peptide-binding core, is highly conserved in the residues which anchor the peptide to the molecule. In addition, as these peptides are the product of proteolytic cleavages, certain conserved residues may be expected at the N- and C-termini outside the binding core. To study whether similar conserved residues are present in different cell types, potentially harbouring different proteolytic enzymes, the ligandomes of HLA-DRB1*03:01/HLA-DRB > 1 derived from two different cell types (dendritic cells and EBV-transformed B cells) were identified with mass spectrometry and the binding core and N- and C-terminal residues of a total of 16,568 peptides were analysed using the frequencies of the amino acids in the human proteome. Similar binding motifs were found as well as comparable conservations in the N- and C-terminal residues. Furthermore, the terminal conservations of these ligandomes were compared to the N- and C-terminal conservations of the ligandome acquired from dendritic cells homozygous for HLA-DRB1*04:01. Again, comparable conservations were evident with only minor differences. Taken together, these data show that there are conservations in the terminal residues of peptides, presumably the result of the activity of proteases involved in antigen processing.
PXD013244	31520916	Serum proteomics analysis based on label-free revealed the protective effect of Chinese herbal formula Gu-Ben-Fang-Xiao. 	A label-free proteomics method to investigate the protective effect of Gu-Ben-Fang-Xiao in a chronic persistent murine asthma model	Gubenfangxiao decoction, chronic persistent asthma, immune response, inflammatory response, label-free proteomic	Gubenfangxiao decoction (GBFXD) is a traditional Chinese medicine formula derived from Yupingfengsan, an ancient formula widely used to treat respiratory diseases. In recent years, GBFXD has been applied to efficaciously and safely treat asthma. However, the mechanism of GBFXD is still not fully elucidated. The aim of this study was to employ the label-free proteomic method to explore the protective mechanism of GBFXD in respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)-ovalbumin (OVA) induced chronic persistent asthmatic mice. After RSV-OVA challenge, mice were orally administered GBFXD at a dose of 36 g/kg accompanied with OVA nasal spray once every 3 days for 28 days. The label-free proteomics-based liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method was used to explore the differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in the serum from model mice compared with that in control mice (M:C), and in GBFXD-treated mice compared with that in model mice (G:M). The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013244. A total of 69 significant DAPs were identified including 39 in M:C, 46 in G:M, and 16 common differential proteins. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the DAPs of M:C were mainly involved in inflammatory response and were related to lipid metabolism. However, the DAPs of G:M mostly participated in stress response, inflammatory response, and epithelial cell proliferation. Serum levels of Apoa-1, Apoc-1, Cfd, and Lrg1, EGFR and Lrg1 in the lungs were consistent with the results of proteomic analysis. Apoa-1 and Apoc-1 were closely related to cholesterol transport, lipid metabolism balance, and airway epithelial integrity; Cfd participated in immune response, affecting the occurrence and development of inflammation; EGFR and Lrg1 were involved in epithelial cell proliferation, influencing the process of airway remodeling. In summary, these results indicated that GBFXD may affect inflammatory and immune response of asthma by regulating cholesterol transport and complement factor activation. Furthermore, it could repair damaged airway epithelium and avoid airway remodeling to prevent and treat asthma.
PXD015129	31521183	Comparative study of excretory-secretory proteins released by Schistosoma mansoni-resistant, susceptible and naive Biomphalaria glabrata. 	Excretory-secretory proteins released by Schistosoma mansoni-resistant, susceptible and nave Biomphalaria glabrata	Biomphalaria glabrata, PPI, Schistosoma mansoni, excretory-secretory proteins, miracidia	BACKGROUND: Schistosomiasis is a harmful neglected tropical disease caused by infection with Schistosoma spp., such as Schistosoma mansoni. Schistosoma must transition within a molluscan host to survive. Chemical analyses of schistosome-molluscan interactions indicate that host identification involves chemosensation, including naive host preference. Proteomic technique advances enable sophisticated comparative analyses between infected and naive snail host proteins. This study aimed to compare resistant, susceptible and naive Biomphalaria glabrata snail-conditioned water (SCW) to identify potential attractants and deterrents. METHODS: Behavioural bioassays were performed on S. mansoni miracidia to compare the effects of susceptible, F1 resistant and naive B. glabrata SCW. The F1 resistant and susceptible B. glabrata SCW excretory-secretory proteins (ESPs) were fractionated using SDS-PAGE, identified with LC-MS/MS and compared to naive snail ESPs. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses based on published studies (including experiments, co-expression, text-mining and gene fusion) identified S. mansoni and B. glabrata protein interaction. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015129. RESULTS: A total of 291, 410 and 597 ESPs were detected in the susceptible, F1 resistant and naive SCW, respectively. Less overlap in ESPs was identified between susceptible and naive snails than F1 resistant and naive snails. F1 resistant B. glabrata ESPs were predominately associated with anti-pathogen activity and detoxification, such as leukocyte elastase and peroxiredoxin. Susceptible B. glabrata several proteins correlated with immunity and anti-inflammation, such as glutathione S-transferase and zinc metalloproteinase, and S. mansoni sporocyst presence. PPI analyses found that uncharacterised S. mansoni protein Smp_142140.1 potentially interacts with numerous B. glabrata proteins. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified ESPs released by F1 resistant, susceptible and naive B. glabrata to explain S. mansoni miracidia interplay. Susceptible B. glabrata ESPs shed light on potential S. mansoni miracidia deterrents. Further targeted research on specific ESPs identified in this study could help inhibit B. glabrata and S. mansoni interactions and stop human schistosomiasis.
PXD012851	31521194	Endo-lysosomal proteins and ubiquitin CSF concentrations in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. 	Endo-Lysosomal and Ubiquitin CSF Biomarker Discovery by solid-phase extraction and LC-MS/MS	CSF, SPE	BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence implicates dysfunctional proteostasis and the involvement of the autophagic and endo-lysosomal system and the ubiquitin-proteasome system in neurodegenerative diseases. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), there is an accumulation of autophagic vacuoles within the neurons. In Parkinson's disease (PD), susceptibility has been linked to genes encoding proteins involved in autophagy and lysosomal function, as well as mutations causing lysosomal disorders. Furthermore, both diseases are characterized by the accumulation of protein aggregates. METHODS: Proteins associated with endocytosis, lysosomal function, and the ubiquitin-proteasome system were identified in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and targeted by combining solid-phase extraction and parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry. In total, 50 peptides from 18 proteins were quantified in three cross-sectional cohorts including AD (N = 61), PD (N = 21), prodromal AD (N = 10), stable mild cognitive impairment (N = 15), and controls (N = 68). RESULTS: A pilot study, including subjects selected based on their AD CSF core biomarker concentrations, showed increased concentrations of several targeted proteins in subjects with core biomarker levels indicating AD pathology compared to controls. Next, in a clinically characterized cohort, lower concentrations in CSF of proteins in PD were found compared to subjects with prodromal AD. Further investigation in an additional clinical study again revealed lower concentrations in CSF of proteins in PD compared to controls and AD. CONCLUSION: In summary, significantly different peptide CSF concentrations were identified from proteins AP2B1, C9, CTSB, CTSF, GM2A, LAMP1, LAMP2, TCN2, and ubiquitin. Proteins found to have altered concentrations in more than one study were AP2B1, CTSB, CTSF, GM2A, LAMP2, and ubiquitin. Interestingly, given the genetic implication of lysosomal function in PD, we did identify the CSF concentrations of CTSB, CTSF, GM2A, and LAMP2 to be altered. However, we also found differences in proteins associated with endocytosis (AP2B1) and the ubiquitin-proteasome system (ubiquitin). No difference in any peptide CSF concentration was found in clinically characterized subjects with AD compared to controls. In conclusion, CSF analyses of subjects with PD suggest a general lysosomal dysfunction, which resonates well with recent genetic findings, while such changes are minor or absent in AD.
PXD011946	31522117	Structural Basis of Mitochondrial Scaffolds by Prohibitin Complexes: Insight into a Role of the Coiled-Coil Region. 	BioID2_PHB2(V1)-(WT_KKK_I225P)	BioID	The coiled-coil motif mediates subunit oligomerization and scaffolding and underlies several fundamental biologic processes. Prohibitins (PHBs), mitochondrial inner membrane proteins involved in mitochondrial homeostasis and signal transduction, are predicted to have a coiled-coil motif, but their structural features are poorly understood. Here we solved the crystal structure of the heptad repeat (HR) region of PHB2 at 1.7-Aa resolution, showing that it assembles into a dimeric, antiparallel coiled-coil with a unique negatively charged area essential for the PHB interactome in mitochondria. Disruption of the HR coiled-coil abolishes well-ordered PHB complexes and the mitochondrial tubular networks accompanying PHB-dependent signaling. Using a proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID) technique in live cells, we mapped a number of mitochondrial intermembrane space proteins whose association with PHB2 relies on the HR coiled-coil region. Elucidation of the PHB complex structure in mitochondria provides insight into essential PHB interactomes required for mitochondrial dynamics as well as signal transduction.
PXD008498	31522610	Tandem RNA isolation reveals functional rearrangement of RNA-binding proteins on CDKN1B/p27(Kip1) 3'UTRs in cisplatin treated cells. 	Cisplatin induces the rearrangement of RBPs on CDKN1B/p27 mRNA	CDKN1B/p27, RBPs, RNA aptamer, Tobramaycin	Post-transcriptional control of gene expression is mediated via RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) that interact with mRNAs in a combinatorial fashion. While recent global RNA interactome capture experiments expanded the repertoire of cellular RBPs quiet dramatically, little is known about the assembly of RBPs on particular mRNAs; and how these associations change and control the fate of the mRNA in drug-treatment conditions. Here we introduce a novel biochemical approach, termed tobramycin-based tandem RNA isolation procedure (tobTRIP), to quantify proteins associated with the 3'UTRs of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1B (CDKN1B/p27(Kip1)) mRNAs in vivo. P27(Kip1) plays an important role in mediating a cell's response to cisplatin (CP), a widely used chemotherapeutic cancer drug that induces DNA damage and cell cycle arrest. We found that p27(Kip1) mRNA is stabilized upon CP treatment of HEK293 cells through elements in its 3'UTR. Applying tobTRIP, we further compared the associated proteins in CP and non-treated cells, and identified more than 50 interacting RBPs, many functionally related and evoking a coordinated response. Knock-downs of several of the identified RBPs in HEK293 cells confirmed their involvement in CP-induced p27 mRNA regulation; while knock-down of the KH-type splicing regulatory protein (KHSRP) further enhanced the sensitivity of MCF7 adenocarcinoma cancer cells to CP treatment. Our results highlight the benefit of specific in vivo mRNA-protein interactome capture to reveal post-transcriptional regulatory networks implicated in cellular drug response and adaptation.
PXD015047	31525884	DPP9's Enzymatic Activity and Not Its Binding to CARD8 Inhibits Inflammasome Activation. 	DPP9 activity and not protein binding inhibits the CARD8 inflammasome	CARD8, DPP9, Val-boroPro	Inflammasomes are multiprotein complexes formed in response to pathogens. NLRP1 and CARD8 are related proteins that form inflammasomes, but the pathogen-associated signal(s) and the molecular mechanisms controlling their activation have not been established. Inhibitors of the serine dipeptidyl peptidases DPP8 and DPP9 (DPP8/9) activate both NLRP1 and CARD8. Interestingly, DPP9 binds directly to NLRP1 and CARD8, and this interaction may contribute to the inhibition of NLRP1. Here, we use activity-based probes, reconstituted inflammasome assays, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics to further investigate the DPP9-CARD8 interaction. We show that the DPP9-CARD8 interaction, unlike the DPP9-NLRP1 interaction, is not disrupted by DPP9 inhibitors or CARD8 mutations that block autoproteolysis. Moreover, wild-type, but not catalytically inactive mutant, DPP9 rescues CARD8-mediated cell death in DPP9 knockout cells. Together, this work reveals that DPP9's catalytic activity and not its binding to CARD8 restrains the CARD8 inflammasome and thus suggests the binding interaction likely serves some other biological purpose.
PXD014410	31527084	Phosphorylation of the multifunctional signal transducer B-cell adaptor protein (BCAP) promotes recruitment of multiple SH2/SH3 proteins including GRB2. 	Phosphorylation of the multi functional signal transducer B-cell adaptor protein (BCAP) facilitates recruitment of multiple SH2/SH3 proteins including Grb2.	SH2 domains, SH3 domains, Toll-like receptors, human cell line HEK293T BCAP, phosphoinositide 3-kinase, phosphorylation	B-cell adaptor protein (BCAP) is a multimodular, multifunctional signal transducer that regulates signal transduction pathways in leukocytes, including macrophages, B-cells, and T-cells. In particular, BCAP suppresses inflammatory signaling by Toll-like receptors (TLRs). However, how BCAP itself is regulated and what its interaction partners are is unclear. Here, using human immune cell lines, including THP-1 cells, we characterized the complex phosphorylation patterns of BCAP and used a novel protein complex trapping strategy, called virotrap, to identify its interaction partners. This analysis identified known interactions of BCAP with phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) p85 subunit and NCK adaptor protein (NCK), together with previously unknown interactions of BCAP with Src homology 2 (SH2) and SH3 domain-containing adaptor proteins, notably growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2) and CRK-like proto-oncogene, adaptor protein (CRKL). We show that the SH3 domain of GRB2 can bind to BCAP independently of BCAP phosphorylation status, suggesting that the SH2 domains mediate interactions with activated receptor tyrosine kinase complexes including the CD19 subunit of the B-cell receptor. Our results also suggested that the PI3K p85 subunit binds to BCAP via SH3 domains forming an inactive complex that is then activated by sequential binding with the SH2 domains. Taken together, our results indicate that BCAP is a complex hub that processes signals from multiple pathways in diverse cell types of the immune system.
PXD009731	31527085	O-GlcNAcylation of Thr(12)/Ser(56) in short-form O-GlcNAc transferase (sOGT) regulates its substrate selectivity. 	O-GlcNAc pattern of sOGT regulates its substrate selectivity and function	O-GlcNAc pattern, functional regulation, sOGT, site mapping	O-GlcNAcylation is a ubiquitous protein glycosylation playing different roles on variant proteins. O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) is the unique enzyme responsible for the sugar addition to nucleocytoplasmic proteins. Recently, multiple O-GlcNAc sites have been observed on short-form OGT (sOGT) and nucleocytoplasmic OGT (ncOGT), both of which locate in the nucleus and cytoplasm in cell. Moreover, O-GlcNAcylation of Ser(389) in ncOGT (1036 amino acids) affects its nuclear translocation in HeLa cells. To date, the major O-GlcNAcylation sites and their roles in sOGT remain unknown. Here, we performed LC-MS/MS and mutational analyses to seek the major O-GlcNAcylation site on sOGT. We identified six O-GlcNAc sites in the tetratricopeptide repeat domain in sOGT, with Thr(12) and Ser(56) being two "key" sites. Thr(12) is a dominant O-GlcNAcylation site, whereas the modification of Ser(56) plays a role in regulating sOGT O-GlcNAcylation, partly through Thr(12)In vitro activity and pulldown assays demonstrated that O-GlcNAcylation does not affect sOGT activity but does affect sOGT-interacting proteins. In HEK293T cells, S56A bound to and hence glycosylated more proteins in contrast to T12A and WT sOGT. By proteomic and bioinformatics analyses, we found that T12A and S56A differed in substrate proteins (e.g. HNRNPU and PDCD6IP), which eventually affected cell cycle progression and/or cell proliferation. These findings demonstrate that O-GlcNAcylation modulates sOGT substrate selectivity and affects its role in the cell. The data also highlight the regulatory role of O-GlcNAcylation at Thr(12) and Ser(56).
PXD013720	31527589	Identification of proteins and miRNAs that specifically bind an mRNA in vivo. 	Identification of proteins and miRNAs that specifically bind an mRNA in vivo	Caenorhabditis elegans, Q Exactive HF-X, Q Exactive plus, RNA pulldown	Understanding regulation of an mRNA requires knowledge of its regulators. However, methods for reliable de-novo identification of proteins binding to a particular RNA are scarce and were thus far only successfully applied to abundant noncoding RNAs in cell culture. Here, we present vIPR, an RNA-protein crosslink, RNA pulldown, and shotgun proteomics approach to identify proteins bound to selected mRNAs in C. elegans. Applying vIPR to the germline-specific transcript gld-1 led to enrichment of known and novel interactors. By comparing enrichment upon gld-1 and lin-41 pulldown, we demonstrate that vIPR recovers both common and specific RNA-binding proteins, and we validate DAZ-1 as a specific gld-1 regulator. Finally, combining vIPR with small RNA sequencing, we recover known and biologically important transcript-specific miRNA interactions, and we identify miR-84 as a specific interactor of the gld-1 transcript. We envision that vIPR will provide a platform for investigating RNA in vivo regulation in diverse biological systems.
PXD012630	31527615	The RNA-mediated estrogen receptor alpha interactome of hormone-dependent human breast cancer cell nuclei. 	Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha) interactome before and after RNAse treatment in human breast cancer cells nuclei	RNAse treatment, breast cancer, estrogen receptor alpha, interactome	Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha) is a ligand-inducible transcription factor that mediates estrogen signaling in hormone-responsive cells, where it controls key cellular functions by assembling in gene-regulatory multiprotein complexes. For this reason, interaction proteomics has been shown to represent a useful tool to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying ERalpha action in target cells. RNAs have emerged as bridging molecules, involved in both assembly and activity of transcription regulatory protein complexes. By applying Tandem Affinity Purification (TAP) coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) before and after RNase digestion in vitro, we generated a dataset of nuclear ERalpha molecular partners whose association with the receptor involves RNAs. These data provide a useful resource to elucidate the combined role of nuclear RNAs and the proteins identified here in ERalpha signaling to the genome in breast cancer and other cell types.
PXD013285	31527657	Recurrent GNAQ mutation encoding T96S in natural killer/T cell lymphoma. 	human nk cell line LC-MSMS -  Recurrent GNAQ mutation encoding T96S in natural killer/T cell lymphoma	nk cell line	Natural killer/T cell lymphoma (NKTCL) is a rare and aggressive malignancy with a higher prevalence in Asia and South America. However, the molecular genetic mechanisms underlying NKTCL remain unclear. Here, we identify somatic mutations of GNAQ (encoding the T96S alteration of Galphaq protein) in 8.7% (11/127) of NKTCL patients, through whole-exome/targeted deep sequencing. Using conditional knockout mice (Ncr1-Cre-Gnaq(fl/fl)), we demonstrate that Galphaq deficiency leads to enhanced NK cell survival. We also find that Galphaq suppresses tumor growth of NKTCL via inhibition of the AKT and MAPK signaling pathways. Moreover, the Galphaq T96S mutant may act in a dominant negative manner to promote tumor growth in NKTCL. Clinically, patients with GNAQ T96S mutations have inferior survival. Taken together, we identify recurrent somatic GNAQ T96S mutations that may contribute to the pathogenesis of NKTCL. Our work thus has implications for refining our understanding of the genetic mechanisms of NKTCL and for the development of therapies.
PXD010097	31527668	Nuclear control of lung cancer cells migration, invasion and bioenergetics by eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3F. 	EIF3F regulates cell migration and metastasis in human lung adenocarcinoma	Lung, cancer, human lung adenocarcinoma, label-free quantitative proteome analysis	The basic understanding of the biological effects of eukaryotic translation initiation factors (EIFs) remains incomplete, notably for their roles independent of protein translation. Different EIFs exhibit nuclear localization and DNA-related functions have been proposed, but the understanding of EIFs novel functions beyond protein translation lacks of integrative analyses between the genomic and the proteomic levels. Here, the noncanonical function of EIF3F was studied in human lung adenocarcinoma by combining methods that revealed both the protein-protein and the protein-DNA interactions of this factor. We discovered that EIF3F promotes cell metastasis in vivo. The underpinning molecular mechanisms involved the regulation of a cluster of 34 metastasis-promoting genes including Snail2, as revealed by proteomics combined with immuno-affinity purification of EIF3F and ChIP-seq/Q-PCR analyses. The interaction between EIF3F and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) controlled the EIF3F-mediated increase in Snail2 expression and cellular invasion, which were specifically abrogated using the STAT3 inhibitor Nifuroxazide or knockdown approaches. Furthermore, EIF3F overexpression reprogrammed energy metabolism through the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase and the stimulation of oxidative phosphorylation. Our findings demonstrate the role of EIF3F in the molecular control of cell migration, invasion, bioenergetics, and metastasis. The discovery of a role for EIF3F-STAT3 interaction in the genetic control of cell migration and metastasis in human lung adenocarcinoma could lead to the development of diagnosis and therapeutic strategies.
PXD014780	31527878	Unified feature association networks through integration of transcriptomic and proteomic data. 	Unified Feature Association Networks through Integration of Transcriptomic and Proteomic Data	Dengue Virus, U-937 cells, virus entry route	High-throughput multi-omics studies and corresponding network analyses of multi-omic data have rapidly expanded their impact over the last 10 years. As biological features of different types (e.g. transcripts, proteins, metabolites) interact within cellular systems, the greatest amount of knowledge can be gained from networks that incorporate multiple types of -omic data. However, biological and technical sources of variation diminish the ability to detect cross-type associations, yielding networks dominated by communities comprised of nodes of the same type. We describe here network building methods that can maximize edges between nodes of different data types leading to integrated networks, networks that have a large number of edges that link nodes of different-omic types (transcripts, proteins, lipids etc). We systematically rank several network inference methods and demonstrate that, in many cases, using a random forest method, GENIE3, produces the most integrated networks. This increase in integration does not come at the cost of accuracy as GENIE3 produces networks of approximately the same quality as the other network inference methods tested here. Using GENIE3, we also infer networks representing antibody-mediated Dengue virus cell invasion and receptor-mediated Dengue virus invasion. A number of functional pathways showed centrality differences between the two networks including genes responding to both GM-CSF and IL-4, which had a higher centrality value in an antibody-mediated vs. receptor-mediated Dengue network. Because a biological system involves the interplay of many different types of molecules, incorporating multiple data types into networks will improve their use as models of biological systems. The methods explored here are some of the first to specifically highlight and address the challenges associated with how such multi-omic networks can be assembled and how the greatest number of interactions can be inferred from different data types. The resulting networks can lead to the discovery of new host response patterns and interactions during viral infection, generate new hypotheses of pathogenic mechanisms and confirm mechanisms of disease.
PXD014804	31530632	Substantial Influence of ERAP2 on the HLA-B*40:02 Peptidome: Implications for HLA-B*27-Negative Ankylosing Spondylitis. 	Substantial Influence of ERAP2 on the HLA-B*40:02 peptidome. Implications for HLA-B*27-negative ankylosing spondylitis.	ERAP2, HLA-B*27, HLA-B*40:02 peptidome, ankylosing spondylitis	HLA-B*40:02 is one of a few major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules associated with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) independently of HLA-B*27. The endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2 (ERAP2), an enzyme that process MHC-I ligands and preferentially trims N-terminal basic residues, is also a risk factor for this disease. Like HLA-B*27 and other AS-associated MHC-I molecules, HLA-B*40:02 binds a relatively high percentage of peptides with ERAP2-susceptible residues. In this study, the effects of ERAP2 depletion on the HLA-B*40:02 peptidome were analyzed. ERAP2 protein expression was knocked out by CRISPR in the transfectant cell line C1R-B*40:02, and the differences between the peptidomes from the wild-type and ERAP2-KO cells were determined by label-free quantitative comparisons. The qualitative changes dependent on ERAP2 affected about 5% of the peptidome, but quantitative changes in peptide amounts were much more substantial, reflecting a significant influence of this enzyme on the generation/destruction balance of HLA-B*40:02 ligands. As in HLA-B*27, a major effect was on the frequencies of N-terminal residues. In this position, basic and small residues were increased, and aliphatic/aromatic ones decreased in the ERAP2 knockout. Other peptide positions were also affected. Because most of the non-B*27 MHC-I molecules associated with AS risk bind a relatively high percentage of peptides with N-terminal basic residues, we hypothesize that the non-epistatic association of ERAP2 with AS might be related to the processing of peptides with these residues, thus affecting the peptidomes of AS-associated MHC-I molecules.
PXD014158	31531506	Miniaturized sample preparation on a digital microfluidics device for sensitive bottom-up microproteomics of mammalian cells using magnetic beads and mass spectrometry-compatible surfactants. 	Miniaturized sample preparation on a digital microfluidics device for sensitive bottom-up microproteomics of mammalian cells using magnetic beads and mass spectrometry-compatible surfactants	Detergents, Digital microfluidics, Microproteomics, Miniaturization, SP3	While LC-MS-based proteomics with high nanograms to micrograms of total protein has become routine, the analysis of samples derived from low cell numbers is challenged by factors such as sample losses, or difficulties encountered with the manual manipulation of small liquid volumes. Digital microfluidics (DMF) is an emerging technique for miniaturized and automated droplet manipulation, which has been proposed as a promising tool for proteomic sample preparation. However, proteome analysis of samples prepared on-chip by DMF has previously been unfeasible, due to incompatibility with down-stream LC-MS instrumentation. To overcome these limitations, we here developed protocols for bottom-up LC-MS based proteomics sample preparation of as little as 100 mammalian cells on a commercially available digital microfluidics device. To this end, we developed effective cell lysis conditions optimized for DMF, as well as detergent-buffer systems compatible with downstream proteolytic digestion on DMF chips and subsequent LC-MS analysis. A major step was the introduction of the single-pot, solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3) approach on-chip, which allowed the removal of salts and anti-fouling polymeric detergents, thus rendering sample preparation by DMF compatible with LC-MS-based proteome analysis. Application of DMF-SP3 to the proteome analysis of Jurkat T cells led to the identification of up to 2500 proteins from approximately 500 cells, and up to 1200 proteins from approximately 100 cells on an Orbitrap mass spectrometer, emphasizing the high compatibility of DMF-SP3 with low protein input and minute volumes handled by DMF. Taken together, we demonstrate the first sample preparation workflow for proteomics on a DMF chip device reported so far, allowing the sensitive analysis of limited biological material.
PXD015490	31531927	Proteomics Analysis Identifies IRSp53 and Fascin as Critical for PRV Egress and Direct Cell-Cell Transmission. 	Proteomics analysis identifies IRSp53 and Fascin as critical for PRV egress and direct cell-cell transmission	PRV, Virus	Pseudorabies virus (PRV) has been widely used as a live trans-synaptic tracer for mapping neuronal circuits. Systematically identifying mature PRV virion proteomes and defining co-purified host proteins are necessary to fully understand the detailed mechanism underlying PRV transmission processes. Here, a PRV virion purification strategy based on sorting with flow cytometry is developed and the mature extracellular and intracellular PRV virion proteomes using LC coupled with MS/MS are characterized. In addition to viral proteins, a large number of host proteins are also identified, including proteins related to actin cytoskeletal dynamics and membrane protrusion. How many of these host proteins are true virion components are unknown and the majority of these may not be. Through functional analysis, it is found that IRSp53 and fascin are critical for the egress process and play a role in direct cell-cell transmission. Moreover, it is shown that CDC42 and Rac1 are also involved in the production of mature extracellular virions. The results suggest that the formation of the filopodia-like cytoskeleton and the rearrangement of the membrane, which are both associated with IRSp53 and fascin, may be important for the transmission of viruses used in neuronal tracing.
PXD009947	31532894	Serum Small Extracellular Vesicles Proteome of Tuberculosis Patients Demonstrated Deregulated Immune Response. 	Serum Small Extracellular Vesicles Proteome of Tuberculosis Patients Demonstrated Deregulated Immune Response.	exosomes, iTRAQ, tuberculosis	PURPOSE: Detailed understanding of host pathogen interaction in tuberculosis is an important avenue for identifying novel therapeutic targets. Small extracellular vesicles (EVs) like exosomes that are rich in proteins, nucleic acids and lipids, act as messengers and may show altered composition in disease conditions. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In this case control study, small EVs are isolated from serum of 58 subjects (all male, 33 (15-70) in years) including drug naive active tuberculosis (ATB: n = 22), non-tuberculosis (NTB: n = 18), and healthy subjects (n = 18). Serum small EVs proteome analysis is carried out using isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) experiments and an independent sample (n = 36) is used for validation. RESULTS: A set of 132 and 68 proteins are identified in iTRAQ-I (ATB/Healthy) and iTRAQ-II (ATB/NTB) experiments, respectively. Four proteins (KYAT3, SERPINA1, HP, and APOC3) show deregulation (log2 -fold change > +/-0.48, p < 0.05) in ATB with respect to healthy controls and Western blot data corroborated mass spectrometry findings. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These important proteins, involved in neutrophil degranulation, plasma heme scavenging, kynurenine, and lipid metabolism, show deregulation in ATB patients. Identification of such a protein panel in circulating small EVs besides providing novel insights into their role in tuberculosis may prove to be useful targets to develop host-directed therapeutic intervention.
PXD014929	31533042	Polymer Modeling Predicts Chromosome Reorganization in Senescence. 	Mass spectrometry analysis following chromatin fractionation in growing and senescent cells	lung fibroblast	Lamina-associated domains (LADs) cover a large part of the human genome and are thought to play a major role in shaping the nuclear architectural landscape. Here, we perform polymer simulations, microscopy, and mass spectrometry to dissect the roles played by heterochromatin- and lamina-mediated interactions in nuclear organization. Our model explains the conventional organization of heterochromatin and euchromatin in growing cells and the pathological organization found in oncogene-induced senescence and progeria. We show that the experimentally observed changes in the locality of contacts in senescent and progeroid cells can be explained as arising due to phase transitions in the system. Within our simulations, LADs are highly stochastic, as in experiments. Our model suggests that, once established, the senescent phenotype should be metastable even if lamina-mediated interactions were reinstated. Overall, our simulations uncover a generic physical mechanism that can regulate heterochromatin segregation and LAD formation in a wide range of mammalian nuclei.
PXD014802	31533340	DNA Damage Changes Distribution Pattern and Levels of HP1 Protein Isoforms in the Nucleolus and Increases Phosphorylation of HP1beta-Ser88. 	Proteomic profiling of PTMs at HP1 protein	HDAC inhibitor, HP1 protein, HeLa cells, irradiation	The family of heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1) isoforms is essential for chromatin packaging, regulation of gene expression, and repair of damaged DNA. Here we document that gamma-radiation reduced the number of HP1alpha-positive foci, but not HP1beta and HP1gamma foci, located in the vicinity of the fibrillarin-positive region of the nucleolus. The additional analysis confirmed that gamma-radiation has the ability to significantly decrease the level of HP1alpha in rDNA promoter and rDNA encoding 28S rRNA. By mass spectrometry, we showed that treatment by gamma-rays enhanced the HP1beta serine 88 phosphorylation (S88ph), but other analyzed modifications of HP1beta, including S161ph/Y163ph, S171ph, and S174ph, were not changed in cells exposed to gamma-rays or treated by the HDAC inhibitor (HDACi). Interestingly, a combination of HDACi and gamma-radiation increased the level of HP1alpha and HP1gamma. The level of HP1beta remained identical before and after the HDACi/gamma-rays treatment, but HDACi strengthened HP1beta interaction with the KRAB-associated protein 1 (KAP1) protein. Conversely, HP1gamma did not interact with KAP1, although approximately 40% of HP1gamma foci co-localized with accumulated KAP1. Especially HP1gamma foci at the periphery of nucleoli were mostly absent of KAP1. Together, DNA damage changed the morphology, levels, and interaction properties of HP1 isoforms. Also, gamma-irradiation-induced hyperphosphorylation of the HP1beta protein; thus, HP1beta-S88ph could be considered as an important marker of DNA damage.
PXD036081	31534126	Heme and hemoglobin utilization by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 	The ESX-4 type VII secretion system in required for efficient heme utilization by Mycobacterium tuberculosis	ESX-4, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, PPE, channel protein, heme, iron acquisition, outer membrane, type VII secretion	Iron is essential for growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), but most iron in the human body is stored in heme within hemoglobin. Here, we demonstrate that the substrate-binding protein DppA of the inner membrane Dpp transporter is required for heme and hemoglobin utilization by Mtb. The 1.27 Aa crystal structure of DppA shows a tetrapeptide bound in the protein core and a large solvent-exposed crevice for heme binding. Mutation of arginine 179 in this cleft eliminates heme binding to DppA and prevents heme utilization by Mtb. The outer membrane proteins PPE36 and PPE62 are also required for heme and hemoglobin utilization, indicating that these pathways converge at the cell surface of Mtb. Albumin, the most abundant blood protein, binds heme specifically and bypasses the requirements for PPE36, PPE62 and Dpp. Thus, our study reveals albumin-dependent and -independent heme uptake pathways, highlighting the importance of iron acquisition from heme for Mtb.
PXD010677	31534536	Exosome-dependent immune surveillance at the metastatic niche requires BAG6 and CBP/p300-dependent acetylation of p53. 	Exosome-dependent immune surveillance at the metastatic niche requires BAG6	BAG6, EVs, exosomes	Extracellular vesicles released by tumor cells contribute to the reprogramming of the tumor microenvironment and interfere with hallmarks of cancer including metastasis. Notably, melanoma cell-derived EVs are able to establish a pre-metastatic niche in distant organs, or on the contrary, exert anti-tumor activity. However, molecular insights into how vesicles are selectively packaged with cargo defining their specific functions remain elusive. Methods: Here, we investigated the role of the chaperone Bcl2-associated anthogene 6 (BAG6, synonym Bat3) for the formation of pro- and anti-tumor EVs. EVs collected from wildtype cells and BAG6-deficient cells were characterized by mass spectrometry and RNAseq. Their tumorigenic potential was analyzed using the B-16V transplantation mouse melanoma model. Results: We demonstrate that EVs from B-16V cells inhibit lung metastasis associated with the mobilization of Ly6C(low) patrolling monocytes. The formation of these anti-tumor-EVs was dependent on acetylation of p53 by the BAG6/CBP/p300-acetylase complex, followed by recruitment of components of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) via a P(S/T)AP double motif of BAG6. Genetic ablation of BAG6 and disruption of this pathway led to the release of a distinct EV subtype, which failed to suppress metastasis but recruited tumor-promoting neutrophils to the pre-metastatic niche. Conclusion: We conclude that the BAG6/CBP/p300-p53 axis is a key pathway directing EV cargo loading and thus a potential novel microenvironmental therapeutic target.
PXD014512	31535084	Spatial sorting enables comprehensive characterization of liver zonation. 	LC-MS/MS of mouse hepatocytes sorted by lobule layers	hepatocytes, liver zonation	The mammalian liver is composed of repeating hexagonal units termed lobules. Spatially resolved single-cell transcriptomics revealed that about half of hepatocyte genes are differentially expressed across the lobule, yet technical limitations impeded reconstructing similar global spatial maps of other hepatocyte features. Here, we show how zonated surface markers can be used to sort hepatocytes from defined lobule zones with high spatial resolution. We apply transcriptomics, miRNA array measurements and mass spectrometry proteomics to reconstruct spatial atlases of multiple zonated features. We demonstrate that protein zonation largely overlaps with mRNA zonation, with the periportal HNF4alpha as an exception. We identify zonation of miRNAs such as miR-122, and inverse zonation of miRNAs and their hepatocyte target genes, highlighting potential regulation of protein levels through zonated mRNA degradation. Among the targets we find the pericentral Wnt receptors Fzd7 and Fzd8 and the periportal Wnt inhibitors Tcf7l1 and Ctnnbip1. Our approach facilitates reconstructing spatial atlases of multiple cellular features in the liver and other structured tissues.
PXD015162	31535972	Proximity labeling of protein complexes and cell-type-specific organellar proteomes in Arabidopsis enabled by TurboID. 	Analysis of the global nuclear proteome and of the nuclear proteome of FAMA-expressing cells in seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana using TurboID	FAMA, Plant, TurboID, bHLH transcription factor, nuclear proteome, proximity labeling, seedling, stomatal guard cell, streptavidin affinity purification	Defining specific protein interactions and spatially or temporally restricted local proteomes improves our understanding of all cellular processes, but obtaining such data is challenging, especially for rare proteins, cell types, or events. Proximity labeling enables discovery of protein neighborhoods defining functional complexes and/or organellar protein compositions. Recent technological improvements, namely two highly active biotin ligase variants (TurboID and miniTurbo), allowed us to address two challenging questions in plants: (1) what are in vivo partners of a low abundant key developmental transcription factor and (2) what is the nuclear proteome of a rare cell type? Proteins identified with FAMA-TurboID include known interactors of this stomatal transcription factor and novel proteins that could facilitate its activator and repressor functions. Directing TurboID to stomatal nuclei enabled purification of cell type- and subcellular compartment-specific proteins. Broad tests of TurboID and miniTurbo in Arabidopsis and Nicotiana benthamiana and versatile vectors enable customization by plant researchers.
PXD013273	31536157	Efficient Tandem LysC/Trypsin Digestion in Detergent Conditions. 	Tandem LysC/trypsin digestion performs efficient in detergent conditions and under constant denaturating environments	LysC, protein digestion, shotgun proteomics, trypsin	All shotgun proteomics experiments rely on efficient proteolysis steps for sensitive peptide/protein identification and quantification. Previous reports suggest that the sequential tandem LysC/trypsin digest yields higher recovery of fully tryptic peptides than single-tryptic proteolysis. Based on the previous studies, it is assumed that the advantageous effect of tandem proteolysis requires a high sample denaturation state for the initial LysC digest. Therefore, to date, all systematic assessments of LysC/trypsin proteolysis are done in chaotropic environments such as urea. Here, sole trypsin is compared with LysC/trypsin and it is shown that tandem digestion can be carried with high efficiency in Mass Spectrometry-compatible detergents, thereby resulting in higher quantitative yields of fully cleaved peptides. It is further demonstrated that higher cleavage efficiency of tandem digests has a positive impact on absolute protein quantification using intensity-based absolute quantification (iBAQ) values. The results of the examination of divergent urea tandem conditions imply that beneficial effects of the initial LysC digest do not depend on the sample denaturation state, but, are mainly caused by different target specificities of LysC and trypsin. The observed detergent compatibility enables tandem digestion schemes to be implemented in efficient cellular solubilization proteomics procedures without the need for buffer exchange to chaotropic environments.
PXD012536	31536808	Comparative proteomic analysis of trypomastigotes from Trypanosoma cruzi strains with different pathogenicity. 	Comparative proteomics of Trypanosoma cruzi Y and VFRA strains.	Chagas disease, Trypanosoma cruzi, antioxidant defenses., enriched metabolic pathways, gene ontology, replication, trypomastigote	Chagas disease, caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is one of the most neglected diseases in Latin America, being currently a global health problem. Its immunopathogenesis is still quite unknown. Moreover, there are important differences in pathogenicity between some different T. cruzi strains. For example, in mice, Y strain produces a high acute lethality while VFRA remains in the host mostly in a chronic manner. Comparative proteomic studies between T. cruzi strains represent a complement for transcriptomics and may allow the detection of relevant factors or distinctive functions. Here for the first time, we compared the proteome of trypomastigotes from 2 strains, Y and VFRA, analyzed by mass spectrometry. Gene ontology analysis were used to display similarities or differences in cellular components, biological processes and molecular functions. Also, we performed metabolic pathways enrichment analysis to detect the most relevant pathways in each strain. Although in general they have similar profiles in the different ontology groups, there were some particular interesting differences. Moreover, there were around 10% of different proteins between Y and VFRA strains, that were shared by other T. cruzi strains or protozoan species. They displayed many common enriched metabolic pathways but some others were uniquely enriched in one strain. Thus, we detected enriched antioxidant defenses in VFRA that could correlate with its ability to induce a chronic infection in mice controlling ROS production, while the Y strain revealed a great enrichment of pathways related with nucleotides and protein production, that could fit with its high parasite replication and lethality. In summary, Y and VFRA strains displayed comparable proteomes with some particular distinctions that could contribute to understand their different biological behaviors.
PXD009832	31536960	Rewiring of the Human Mitochondrial Interactome during Neuronal Reprogramming Reveals Regulators of the Respirasome and Neurogenesis. 	Mitochondrial Network Organization during Neuronal Reprogramming, MT_UDF_WAX	Biochemical fractionation, CI and CIV deficiencies, Differentiated neuronal cells, Human NTera2 embryonal carcinoma stem cells, Mitochondrial interaction landscape, Mitochondrial proteins	Mitochondrial protein (MP) assemblies undergo alterations during neurogenesis, a complex process vital in brain homeostasis and disease. Yet which MP assemblies remodel during differentiation remains unclear. Here, using mass spectrometry-based co-fractionation profiles and phosphoproteomics, we generated mitochondrial interaction maps of human pluripotent embryonal carcinoma stem cells and differentiated neuronal-like cells, which presented as two discrete cell populations by single-cell RNA sequencing. The resulting networks, encompassing 6,442 high-quality associations among 600 MPs, revealed widespread changes in mitochondrial interactions and site-specific phosphorylation during neuronal differentiation. By leveraging the networks, we show the orphan C20orf24 as a respirasome assembly factor whose disruption markedly reduces respiratory chain activity in patients deficient in complex IV. We also find that a heme-containing neurotrophic factor, neuron-derived neurotrophic factor [NENF], couples with Parkinson disease-related proteins to promote neurotrophic activity. Our results provide insights into the dynamic reorganization of mitochondrial networks during neuronal differentiation and highlights mechanisms for MPs in respirasome, neuronal function, and mitochondrial diseases.
PXD013872	31537618	A Unique Morphological Phenotype in Chemoresistant Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Reveals Metabolic Reprogramming and PLIN4 Expression as a Molecular Vulnerability. 	Quantitative proteomics of TNBC	Triple negative breast cancer	The major obstacle in successfully treating triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is resistance to cytotoxic chemotherapy, the mainstay of treatment in this disease. Previous preclinical models of chemoresistance in TNBC have suffered from a lack of clinical relevance. Using a single high dose chemotherapy treatment, we developed a novel MDA-MB-436 cell-based model of chemoresistance characterized by a unique and complex morphologic phenotype, which consists of polyploid giant cancer cells giving rise to neuron-like mononuclear daughter cells filled with smaller but functional mitochondria and numerous lipid droplets. This resistant phenotype is associated with metabolic reprogramming with a shift to a greater dependence on fatty acids and oxidative phosphorylation. We validated both the molecular and histologic features of this model in a clinical cohort of primary chemoresistant TNBCs and identified several metabolic vulnerabilities including a dependence on PLIN4, a perilipin coating the observed lipid droplets, expressed both in the TNBC-resistant cells and clinical chemoresistant tumors treated with neoadjuvant doxorubicin-based chemotherapy. These findings thus reveal a novel mechanism of chemotherapy resistance that has therapeutic implications in the treatment of drug-resistant cancer. IMPLICATIONS: These findings underlie the importance of a novel morphologic-metabolic phenotype associated with chemotherapy resistance in TNBC, and bring to light novel therapeutic targets resulting from vulnerabilities in this phenotype, including the expression of PLIN4 essential for stabilizing lipid droplets in resistant cells.
PXD012353	31539802	Cysteine oxidation triggers amyloid fibril formation of the tumor suppressor p16(INK4A). 	Cysteine oxidation triggers amyloid fibril formation of the tumor suppressor p16INK4A	Cysteine oxidation amyloid fibril  p16INK4A	The tumor suppressor p16(INK4A) induces cell cycle arrest and senescence in response to oncogenic transformation and is therefore frequently lost in cancer. p16(INK4A) is also known to accumulate under conditions of oxidative stress. Thus, we hypothesized it could potentially be regulated by reversible oxidation of cysteines (redox signaling). Here we report that oxidation of the single cysteine in p16(INK4A) in human cells occurs under relatively mild oxidizing conditions and leads to disulfide-dependent dimerization. p16(INK4A) is an all alpha-helical protein, but we find that upon cysteine-dependent dimerization, p16(INK4A) undergoes a dramatic structural rearrangement and forms aggregates that have the typical features of amyloid fibrils, including binding of diagnostic dyes, presence of cross-beta sheet structure, and typical dimensions found in electron microscopy. p16(INK4A) amyloid formation abolishes its function as a Cyclin Dependent Kinase 4/6 inhibitor. Collectively, these observations mechanistically link the cellular redox state to the inactivation of p16(INK4A) through the formation of amyloid fibrils.
PXD015402	31540324	Endoglin Protein Interactome Profiling Identifies TRIM21 and Galectin-3 as New Binding Partners. 	Endoglin Protein Interactome Profiling Identifies TRIM21 and Galectin-3 as New Binding Partners	BMP, HHT, TGF-beta, TRIM family, cancer, endoglin, endothelial cells, galectin family, preeclampsia, protein-protein interactions	Endoglin is a 180-kDa glycoprotein receptor primarily expressed by the vascular endothelium and involved in cardiovascular disease and cancer. Heterozygous mutations in the endoglin gene (ENG) cause hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 1, a vascular disease that presents with nasal and gastrointestinal bleeding, skin and mucosa telangiectases, and arteriovenous malformations in internal organs. A circulating form of endoglin (alias soluble endoglin, sEng), proteolytically released from the membrane-bound protein, has been observed in several inflammation-related pathological conditions and appears to contribute to endothelial dysfunction and cancer development through unknown mechanisms. Membrane-bound endoglin is an auxiliary component of the TGF-beta receptor complex and the extracellular region of endoglin has been shown to interact with types I and II TGF-beta receptors, as well as with BMP9 and BMP10 ligands, both members of the TGF-beta family. To search for novel protein interactors, we screened a microarray containing over 9000 unique human proteins using recombinant sEng as bait. We find that sEng binds with high affinity, at least, to 22 new proteins. Among these, we validated the interaction of endoglin with galectin-3, a secreted member of the lectin family with capacity to bind membrane glycoproteins, and with tripartite motif-containing protein 21 (TRIM21), an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase. Using human endothelial cells and Chinese hamster ovary cells, we showed that endoglin co-immunoprecipitates and co-localizes with galectin-3 or TRIM21. These results open new research avenues on endoglin function and regulation.
PXD012082	31541095	Regulation of the endosomal SNX27-retromer by OTULIN. 	Regulation of the endosomal SNX27 retromer by OTULIN	OTULIN, acitivity-based probe, interactome	OTULIN (OTU Deubiquitinase With Linear Linkage Specificity) specifically hydrolyzes methionine1 (Met1)-linked ubiquitin chains conjugated by LUBAC (linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex). Here we report on the mass spectrometric identification of the OTULIN interactor SNX27 (sorting nexin 27), an adaptor of the endosomal retromer complex responsible for protein recycling to the cell surface. The C-terminal PDZ-binding motif (PDZbm) in OTULIN associates with the cargo-binding site in the PDZ domain of SNX27. By solving the structure of the OTU domain in complex with the PDZ domain, we demonstrate that a second interface contributes to the selective, high affinity interaction of OTULIN and SNX27. SNX27 does not affect OTULIN catalytic activity, OTULIN-LUBAC binding or Met1-linked ubiquitin chain homeostasis. However, via association, OTULIN antagonizes SNX27-dependent cargo loading, binding of SNX27 to the VPS26A-retromer subunit and endosome-to-plasma membrane trafficking. Thus, we define an additional, non-catalytic function of OTULIN in the regulation of SNX27-retromer assembly and recycling to the cell surface.
PXD013966	31541118	Refinements of LC-MS/MS Spectral Counting Statistics Improve Quantification of Low Abundance Proteins. 	LC-MS/MS of MDA-MB468 breast cancer cells grown under normal and glucose deprivation conditions	LC.MS/MS, breast cancer, label-free	Mass spectrometry-based spectral count has been a common choice of label-free proteome quantification due to the simplicity for the sample preparation and data generation. The discriminatory nature of spectral count in the MS data-dependent acquisition, however, inherently introduces the spectral count variation for low-abundance proteins in multiplicative LC-MS/MS analysis, which hampers sensitive proteome quantification. As many low-abundance proteins play important roles in cellular processes, deducing low-abundance proteins in a quantitatively reliable manner greatly expands the depth of biological insights. Here, we implemented the Moment Adjusted Imputation error model in the spectral count refinement as a post PLGEM-STN for improving sensitivity for quantitation of low-abundance proteins by reducing spectral count variability. The statistical framework, automated spectral count refinement by integrating the two statistical tools, was tested with LC-MS/MS datasets of MDA-MB468 breast cancer cells grown under normal and glucose deprivation conditions. We identified about 30% more quantifiable proteins that were found to be low-abundance proteins, which were initially filtered out by the PLGEM-STN analysis. This newly developed statistical framework provides a reliable abundance measurement of low-abundance proteins in the spectral count-based label-free proteome quantification and enabled us to detect low-abundance proteins that could be functionally important in cellular processes.
PXD015384	31541158	Mass spectrometric identification of candidate RNA-binding proteins associated with Transition Nuclear Protein mRNA in the mouse testis. 	TNP1 and TNP2 mRNA binding proteins from mouse testes	RNA binding proteins, spermatocytes	Spermatogenesis is a differentiation process that requires dramatic changes to DNA architecture, a process governed in part by Transition Nuclear Proteins 1 and 2 (TNP1 and TNP2). Translation of Tnp1 and Tnp2 mRNAs is temporally disengaged from their transcription. We hypothesized that RNA regulatory proteins associate specifically with Tnp mRNAs to control the delayed timing of their translation. To identify potential regulatory proteins, we isolated endogenous mRNA/protein complexes from testis extract and identified by mass spectrometry proteins that associated with one or both Tnp transcripts. Five proteins showed strong association with Tnp transcripts but had low signal when Actin mRNA was isolated. We visualized the expression patterns in testis sections of the five proteins and found that each of the proteins was detected in germ cells at the appropriate stages to regulate Tnp RNA expression.
PXD013279	31543461	Design on a Rational Basis of High-Affinity Peptides Inhibiting the Histone Chaperone ASF1. 	Rational Design of High Affinity Peptides Validates Histone Chaperone ASF1 as a New Epigenetic Target in Cancer	Histone chaperone, Inhibitory peptides, Peptide design	Anti-silencing function 1 (ASF1) is a conserved H3-H4 histone chaperone involved in histone dynamics during replication, transcription, and DNA repair. Overexpressed in proliferating tissues including many tumors, ASF1 has emerged as a promising therapeutic target. Here, we combine structural, computational, and biochemical approaches to design peptides that inhibit the ASF1-histone interaction. Starting from the structure of the human ASF1-histone complex, we developed a rational design strategy combining epitope tethering and optimization of interface contacts to identify a potent peptide inhibitor with a dissociation constant of 3 nM. When introduced into cultured cells, the inhibitors impair cell proliferation, perturb cell-cycle progression, and reduce cell migration and invasion in a manner commensurate with their affinity for ASF1. Finally, we find that direct injection of the most potent ASF1 peptide inhibitor in mouse allografts reduces tumor growth. Our results open new avenues to use ASF1 inhibitors as promising leads for cancer therapy.
PXD013782	31544936	PP4 phosphatase cooperates in recombinational DNA repair by enhancing double-strand break end resection. 	Phosphoproteomics of DNA repair in Saccharomyces cerevisisae	DNA repair/Double-strand break, Homologous recombination, PP4, phosphoproteomics, resection	The role of Rad53 in response to a DNA lesion is central for the accurate orchestration of the DNA damage response. Rad53 activation relies on its phosphorylation by Mec1 and its own autophosphorylation in a manner dependent on the adaptor Rad9. While the mechanism behind Rad53 activation has been well documented, less is known about the processes that counteract its activity along the repair of a DNA adduct. Here, we describe that PP4 phosphatase is required to avoid Rad53 hyper-phosphorylation during the repair of a double-strand break, a process that impacts on the phosphorylation status of multiple factors involved in the DNA damage response. PP4-dependent Rad53 dephosphorylation stimulates DNA end resection by relieving the negative effect that Rad9 exerts over the Sgs1/Dna2 exonuclease complex. Consequently, elimination of PP4 activity affects resection and repair by single-strand annealing, defects that are bypassed by reducing Rad53 hyperphosphorylation. These results confirm that Rad53 phosphorylation is controlled by PP4 during the repair of a DNA lesion and demonstrate that the attenuation of its kinase activity during the initial steps of the repair process is essential to efficiently enhance recombinational DNA repair pathways that depend on long-range resection for their success.
PXD013182	31545609	Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration: A High-Throughput Proteomics Assay for Target Deconvolution. 	Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (PISA): a high-throughput proteomics assay for target deconvolution	TMT, protein stability, quantitative proteomics, target deconvolution, thermal profiling	Various agents, including drugs as well as nonmolecular stimuli, induce alterations in the physicochemical properties of proteins in cell lysates, living cells, and organisms. These alterations can be probed by applying a stability- and solubility-modifying factor, such as elevated temperature, to a varying degree. As a second dimension of variation, drug concentration or agent intensity/concentration can be used. Compared to standard approaches where curves are fitted to protein solubility data acquired at different temperatures and drug concentrations, Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (PISA) assay increases the analysis throughput by 1 to 2 orders of magnitude for an unlimited number of factor variation points in such a scheme. The consumption of the compound and biological material decreases in PISA by the same factor. We envision widespread use of the PISA approach in chemical biology and drug development.
PXD013350	31545917	Proteomics analysis of the matrisome from MC38 experimental mouse liver metastases. 	Proteomics analysis of the matrisome from MC38 experimental mouse liver metastases	Annexin A1, ECM, extracellular matrix, liver metastasis, matrisome, mousecolorectal cancer	Dissemination of primary tumors to distant anatomical sites has a substantial negative impact on patient prognosis. The liver is a common site for metastases from colorectal cancer, and patients with hepatic metastases have generally much shorter survival, raising a need to develop and implement novel strategies for targeting metastatic disease. The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a meshwork of highly crosslinked, insoluble high-molecular-mass proteins maintaining tissue integrity and establishing cell-cell interactions. Emerging evidence identifies the importance of the ECM in cancer cell migration, invasion, intravasation, and metastasis. Here, we isolated the ECM from MC38 mouse liver metastases using our optimized method of mild detergent solubilization followed by biochemical enrichment. The matrices were subjected to label-free quantitative mass spectrometry analysis, revealing proteins highly abundant in the metastatic matrisome. The resulting list of proteins upregulated in the ECM significantly predicted survival in patients with colorectal cancer but not other cancers with strong involvement of the ECM component. One of the proteins upregulated in liver metastatic ECM, annexin A1, was not previously studied in the context of cancer-associated matrisome. Here, we show that annexin A1 was markedly upregulated in colon cancer cell lines compared with cancer cells of other origin and also over-represented in human primary colorectal lesions, as well as hepatic metastases, compared with their adjacent healthy tissue counterparts. In conclusion, our study provides a comprehensive ECM characterization of MC38 experimental liver metastases and proposes annexin A1 as a putative target for this disease.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Here, the authors provide an extensive proteomics characterization of murine colorectal cancer liver metastasis matrisome (the ensemble of all extracellular matrix molecules). The findings presented in this study may enable identification of therapeutic targets or biomarkers of hepatic metastases.
PXD014482	31546776	Sample Preservation and Storage Significantly Impact Taxonomic and Functional Profiles in Metaproteomics Studies of the Human Gut Microbiome. 	Initial storage impacts taxonomic profile in metaproteomics study of human stool	RNAlater, flash freezing, metagenomics, metaproteomics, microbiome, sample storage	With the technological advances of the last decade, it is now feasible to analyze microbiome samples, such as human stool specimens, using multi-omic techniques. Given the inherent sample complexity, there exists a need for sample methods which preserve as much information as possible about the biological system at the time of sampling. Here, we analyzed human stool samples preserved and stored using different methods, applying metagenomics as well as metaproteomics. Our results demonstrate that sample preservation and storage have a significant effect on the taxonomic composition of identified proteins. The overall identification rates, as well as the proportion of proteins from Actinobacteria were much higher when samples were flash frozen. Preservation in RNAlater overall led to fewer protein identifications and a considerable increase in the share of Bacteroidetes, as well as Proteobacteria. Additionally, a decrease in the share of metabolism-related proteins and an increase of the relative amount of proteins involved in the processing of genetic information was observed for RNAlater-stored samples. This suggests that great care should be taken in choosing methods for the preservation and storage of microbiome samples, as well as in comparing the results of analyses using different sampling and storage methods. Flash freezing and subsequent storage at -80 degreesC should be chosen wherever possible.
PXD015369	31546954	Proteomic Analysis of miR-195 and miR-497 Replacement Reveals Potential Candidates that Increase Sensitivity to Oxaliplatin in MSI/P53wt Colorectal Cancer Cells. 	Proteomic analysis upon miR195/497 replacement reveals potential chemo sensitizing candidates for colorectal cancer	colorectal cancer, label-free, miRNA, microRNA	Most patients with advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) eventually develop resistance to systemic combination therapy. miR-195-5p and miR-497-5p are downregulated in CRC tissues and associated with drug resistance. Sensitization to 5-FU, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan by transfection with miR-195-5p and miR-497-5p mimics was studied using cell viability and clonogenic assays in cell lines HCT116, RKO, DLD-1, and SW480. In addition, proteomic analysis of transfected cells was implemented to identify potential targets. Significantly altered proteins were subjected to STRING (protein-protein interaction networks) database analysis to study the potential mechanisms of drug resistance. Cell viability analysis of transfected cells revealed increased sensitivity to oxaliplatin in microsatellite instable (MSI)/P53 wild-type HCT116 and RKO cells. HCT116 transfected cells formed significantly fewer colonies when treated with oxaliplatin. In sensitized cells, proteomic analysis showed 158 and 202 proteins with significantly altered expression after transfection with miR-195-5p and miR-497-5p mimics respectively, of which CHUK and LUZP1 proved to be coinciding downregulated proteins. Resistance mechanisms of these proteins may be associated with nuclear factor kappa-B signaling and G1 cell-cycle arrest. In conclusion, miR-195-5p and miR-497-5p replacement enhanced sensitivity to oxaliplatin in treatment naive MSI/P53 wild-type CRC cells. Proteomic analysis revealed potential miRNA targets associated with the cell-cycle which possibly bare a relation with chemotherapy sensitivity.
PXD014067	31547042	Comprehensive Detection of Isopeptides between Human Tissue Transglutaminase and Gluten Peptides. 	Comprehensive detection of isopeptides between human tissue transglutaminase and gluten peptides using a reciprocal proteomic approach	Celiac disease, gluten, isopeptides, transglutaminase	Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic inflammation of the small intestine triggered by the ingestion of gluten in genetically predisposed individuals. Tissue transglutaminase (TG2) is a key factor in CD pathogenesis, because it catalyzes both the deamidation of specific glutamine residues and the formation of covalent Nepsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)-lysine isopeptide crosslinks resulting in TG2-gluten peptide complexes. These complexes are thought to activate B cells causing the secretion of anti-TG2 autoantibodies that serve as diagnostic markers for CD, although their pathogenic role remains unclear. To gain more insight into the molecular structures of TG2-gluten peptide complexes, we used different proteomics software tools that enable the comprehensive identification of isopeptides. Thus, 34 different isopeptides involving 20 TG2 lysine residues were identified in a model system, only six of which were previously known. Additionally, 36 isopeptides of TG2-TG2 multimers were detected. Experiments with different TG2-gluten peptide molar ratios revealed the most preferred lysine residues involved in isopeptide crosslinking. Expanding the model system to three gluten peptides with more glutamine residues allowed the localization of the preferred glutamine crosslinking sites. These new insights into the structure of TG2-gluten peptide complexes may help clarify the role of extracellular TG2 in CD autoimmunity and in other inflammatory diseases.
PXD014191	31547269	Proteome Profiling of the Exhaled Breath Condensate after Long-Term Spaceflights. 	Proteome profiling of the exhaled breath condensate after long-term spaceflights	EBC, exhaled breath condensate	Comprehensive studies of the effects of prolonged exposure to space conditions and the overload experienced during landing on physiological and biochemical changes in the human body are extremely important in the context of planning long-distance space flights, which can be associated with constant overloads and various risk factors for significant physiological changes. Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) can be considered as a valuable subject for monitoring physiological changes and is more suitable for long-term storage than traditional monitoring subjects such as blood and urine. Herein, the EBC proteome changes due to the effects of spaceflight factors are analyzed. Thirteen EBC samples were collected from five Russian cosmonauts (i) one month before flight (background), (ii) immediately upon landing modules in the field (R0) after 169-199 days spaceflights, and (iii) on the seventh day after landing (R+7). Semi-quantitative label-free EBC proteomic analysis resulted in 164 proteins, the highest number of which was detected in EBC after landing (R0). Pathways enrichment analysis using the GO database reveals a large group of proteins which take part in keratinization processes (CASP14, DSG1, DSP, JUP, and so on). Nine proteins (including KRT2, KRT9, KRT1, KRT10, KRT14, DCD, KRT6C, KRT6A, and KRT5) were detected in all three groups. A two-sample Welch's t-test identified a significant change in KRT2 and KRT9 levels after landing. Enrichment analysis using the KEGG database revealed the significant participation of detected proteins in pathogenic E. coli infection (ACTG1, TUBA1C, TUBA4A, TUBB, TUBB8, and YWHAZ), which may indicate microbiota changes associated with being in space. This assumption is confirmed by microbial composition analysis. In general, the results suggest that EBC can be used for noninvasive monitoring of health status and respiratory tract pathologies during spaceflights, and that the obtained data are important for the development of medicine for use in extreme situations. Data are available from ProteomeXchange using the identifier PXD014191.
PXD014415	31547658	Evaluating False Transfer Rates from the Match-between-Runs Algorithm with a Two-Proteome Model. 	Evaluating False Transfer Rates from the Match-Between-Runs algorithm with a two-proteome model	false transfer rate, label-free quantitation, match-between-runs, two-proteome mixture	Stochasticity between independent LC-MS/MS runs is a challenging problem in the field of proteomics, resulting in significant missing values (i.e., abundance measurements) among observed peptides. To address this issue, several approaches have been developed including computational methods such as MaxQuant's match-between-runs (MBR) algorithm. Often dozens of runs are all considered at once by MBR, transferring identifications from any one run to any of the others. To evaluate the error associated with these transfer events, we created a two-sample/two-proteome approach. In this way, samples containing no yeast lysate (n = 20) were assessed for false identification transfers from samples containing yeast (n = 20). While MBR increased the total number of spectral identifications by ~40%, we also found that 44% of all identified yeast proteins had identifications transferred to at least one sample without yeast. However, of these only 2.7% remained in the final data set after applying the MaxQuant LFQ algorithm. We conclude that false transfers by MBR are plentiful, but few are retained in the final data set.
PXD015594	31548262	Ectopic Methylation of a Single Persistently Unmethylated CpG in the Promoter of the Vitellogenin Gene Abolishes Its Inducibility by Estrogen through Attenuation of Upstream Stimulating Factor Binding. 	Affinity purification of DNA binding proteins from HeLa extracts LC-MS/MS	HeLa, affinity purification	The enhancer/promoter of the vitellogenin II gene (VTG) has been extensively studied as a model system of vertebrate transcriptional control. While deletion mutagenesis and in vivo footprinting identified the transcription factor (TF) binding sites governing its tissue specificity, DNase hypersensitivity and DNA methylation studies revealed the epigenetic changes accompanying its hormone-dependent activation. Moreover, upon induction with estrogen (E2), the region flanking the estrogen-responsive element (ERE) was reported to undergo active DNA demethylation. We now show that although the VTG ERE is methylated in embryonic chicken liver and in LMH/2A hepatocytes, its induction by E2 was not accompanied by extensive demethylation. In contrast, E2 failed to activate a VTG enhancer/promoter-controlled luciferase reporter gene methylated by SssI. Surprisingly, this inducibility difference could be traced not to the ERE but rather to a single CpG in an E-box (CACGTG) sequence upstream of the VTG TATA box, which is unmethylated in vivo but methylated by SssI. We demonstrate that this E-box binds the upstream stimulating factor USF1/2. Selective methylation of the CpG within this binding site with an E-box-specific DNA methyltransferase, Eco72IM, was sufficient to attenuate USF1/2 binding in vitro and abolish the hormone-induced transcription of the VTG gene in the reporter system.
PXD014609	31548434	Mechanisms of ROS-induced mitochondria-dependent apoptosis underlying liquid storage of goat spermatozoa. 	Mechanisms of ROS-induced mitochondria-dependent apoptosis underlying liquid storage of goat spermatozoa	ROS, differentially expressed protein, goat spermatozoa, liquid storage, mitochondria-dependent apoptosis	Liquid storage of spermatozoa is important for artificial insemination and herd genetic breeding. However, the extended time of storage inducing the rapid decline in spermatozoa quality limits the development of this technology. The molecular mechanisms underlying liquid storage of spermatozoa remain largely unexplored. In this study, the effects of liquid storage on functional quality of spermatozoa were assessed in goat (Capra hircus). The time-dependent decline in spermatozoa motility showed a strong correlation with the significant increase in apoptosis. Moreover, apoptosis-related ultrastructural changes were observed, especially the defects in mitochondria. A significant decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and changes in the expression of mitochondrial apoptosis-related proteins indicated mitochondrial dysfunction and mitochondrial apoptotic pathway activation. Notably, the abnormally high level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) caused by liquid storage resulted in oxidative damage to mitochondria and accelerated mitochondria-dependent apoptosis, as demonstrated by the addition of ROS scavenger N-acetylcysteine. Furthermore, critical differentially expressed proteins involved in mitochondria-dependent apoptosis and antioxidant defense were identified and profiled by quantitative proteomic analysis, facilitating the understanding of molecular regulation of ROS-induced mitochondria-dependent apoptosis. These outcomes provide insights into the mechanisms underlying liquid storage of goat spermatozoa and enhance the progress of semen storage technology.
PXD014631	31548608	KLF4 is involved in the organization and regulation of pluripotency-associated three-dimensional enhancer networks. 	KLF4 binding is involved in the organization and regulation of 3D enhancer networks during acquisition and maintenance of pluripotency.	Chromatin, RIME, iPSCs, pluripotency, stem cells	Cell fate transitions are accompanied by global transcriptional, epigenetic and topological changes driven by transcription factors, as is exemplified by reprogramming somatic cells to pluripotent stem cells through the expression of OCT4, KLF4, SOX2 and cMYC. How transcription factors orchestrate the complex molecular changes around their target gene loci remains incompletely understood. Here, using KLF4 as a paradigm, we provide a transcription-factor-centric view of chromatin reorganization and its association with three-dimensional enhancer rewiring and transcriptional changes during the reprogramming of mouse embryonic fibroblasts to pluripotent stem cells. Inducible depletion of KLF factors in PSCs caused a genome-wide decrease in enhancer connectivity, whereas disruption of individual KLF4 binding sites within pluripotent-stem-cell-specific enhancers was sufficient to impair enhancer-promoter contacts and reduce the expression of associated genes. Our study provides an integrative view of the complex activities of a lineage-specifying transcription factor and offers novel insights into the nature of the molecular events that follow transcription factor binding.
PXD014733	31548609	ER-lysosome contacts enable cholesterol sensing by mTORC1 and drive aberrant growth signalling in Niemann-Pick type C. 	Lysosomal proteomics by affinity purification-mass spectrometry	Lysosome immunoprecipitation, mTORC1, organelle	Cholesterol activates the master growth regulator, mTORC1 kinase, by promoting its recruitment to the surface of lysosomes by the Rag guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases). The mechanisms that regulate lysosomal cholesterol content to enable mTORC1 signalling are unknown. Here, we show that oxysterol binding protein (OSBP) and its anchors at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), VAPA and VAPB, deliver cholesterol across ER-lysosome contacts to activate mTORC1. In cells lacking OSBP, but not other VAP-interacting cholesterol carriers, the recruitment of mTORC1 by the Rag GTPases is inhibited owing to impaired transport of cholesterol to lysosomes. By contrast, OSBP-mediated cholesterol trafficking drives constitutive mTORC1 activation in a disease model caused by the loss of the lysosomal cholesterol transporter, Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1). Chemical and genetic inactivation of OSBP suppresses aberrant mTORC1 signalling and restores autophagic function in cellular models of Niemann-Pick type C (NPC). Thus, ER-lysosome contacts are signalling hubs that enable cholesterol sensing by mTORC1, and targeting the sterol-transfer activity of these signalling hubs could be beneficial in patients with NPC.
PXD015398	31549414	Modification of the cyclopropyl moiety of abacavir provides insight into the structure activity relationship between HLA-B*57:01 binding and T-cell activation. 	Impact of abacavir and abacavir analogues on HLA-B*57:01 peptide presentation	HLA-B*57:01, Immunopeptidome, MHC, abacavir	BACKGROUND: Abacavir is associated with hypersensitivity reactions in individuals positive for the HLA-B*57:01 allele. The drug binds within the peptide binding groove of HLA-B*57:01 altering peptides displayed on the cell surface. Presentation of these HLA-abacavir-peptide complexes to T-cells is hypothesized to trigger a CD8(+) T-cell response underpinning the hypersensitivity. Thus, the aim of this study was to explore the relationship between the structure of abacavir with HLA-B*57:01 binding and the CD8(+) T-cell activation. METHODS: Seventeen abacavir analogues were synthesized and cytokine secretion from abacavir/abacavir analogue-responsive CD8(+) T-cell clones was measured using IFN-gamma ELIspot. In silico docking studies were undertaken to assess the predicted binding poses of the abacavir analogues within the HLA-B*57:01 peptide binding groove. In parallel, the effect of selected abacavir analogues on the repertoire of self-peptides presented by cellular HLA-B*57:01 was characterized using mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Abacavir and ten analogues stimulated CD8(+) T-cell IFN-gamma release. Molecular docking of analogues that retained antiviral activity demonstrated a relationship between predicted HLA-B*57:01 binding orientations and the ability to induce a T-cell response. Analogues that stimulated T-cells displayed a perturbation of the natural peptides displayed by HLA-B*57:01. The antigen-specific CD8(+) T-cell response was dependent on the enantiomeric form of abacavir at both cyclopropyl and cyclopentyl regions. CONCLUSION: Alteration of the chemical constitution of abacavir generates analogues that retain a degree of pharmacological activity, but have variable ability to activate T-cells. Modelling and immunopeptidome analysis delineate how drug HLA-B*57:01 binding and peptide display by antigen presenting cells relate to the activation of CD8(+) T-cells.
PXD012958	31549843	Proteomics Pipeline for Identifying Variant Proteins in Plasmodium falciparum Parasites Isolated from Children Presenting with Malaria. 	Proteomics pipeline for identifying variant proteins in Plasmodium falciparum parasites isolated from children presenting with malaria	PfEMP1, Plasmodium Falciparum, Proteogenomics, Variant antigens	Plasmodium falciparum variant antigens named erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1) are important targets for developing a protective immunity to malaria caused by P. falciparum. One of the major challenges in P. falciparum proteomics studies is identifying PfEMP1s at the protein level due to antigenic variation. To identify these PfEMP1s using shotgun proteomics, we developed a pipeline that searches high-resolution mass spectrometry spectra against a custom protein sequence database. A local alignment algorithm, LAX, was developed as a part of the pipeline that matches peptide sequences to the most similar PfEMP1 and calculates a weight value based on peptide's uniqueness used for PfEMP1 protein inference. The pipeline was first validated in the analysis of a laboratory strain with a known PfEMP1, then it was implemented on the analysis of parasite isolates from malaria-infected pregnant women and finally on the analysis of parasite isolates from malaria-infected children where there was an increase of PfEMP1s identified in 27 out of 31 isolates using the expanded database.
PXD014755	31551296	A systems mechanism for KRAS mutant allele-specific responses to targeted therapy. 	A Systems Mechanism for  KRAS Mutant Allele Specific Responses to Targeted Therapy	Systems approaches reveal why cancer patients with one specific KRAS mutation respond to EGFR inhibitors, thus resolving a problem in cancer personalized medicine.	Cancer treatment decisions are increasingly guided by which specific genes are mutated within each patient's tumor. For example, agents inhibiting the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) benefit many colorectal cancer (CRC) patients, with the general exception of those whose tumor includes a KRAS mutation. However, among the various KRAS mutations, that which encodes the G13D mutant protein (KRAS(G13D)) behaves differently; for unknown reasons, KRAS(G13D) CRC patients benefit from the EGFR-blocking antibody cetuximab. Controversy surrounds this observation, because it contradicts the well-established mechanisms of EGFR signaling with regard to RAS mutations. Here, we identified a systems-level, mechanistic explanation for why KRAS(G13D) cancers respond to EGFR inhibition. A computational model of RAS signaling revealed that the biophysical differences between the three most common KRAS mutants were sufficient to generate different sensitivities to EGFR inhibition. Integrated computation with experimentation then revealed a nonintuitive, mutant-specific dependency of wild-type RAS activation by EGFR that is determined by the interaction strength between KRAS and the tumor suppressor neurofibromin (NF1). KRAS mutants that strongly interacted with and competitively inhibited NF1 drove wild-type RAS activation in an EGFR-independent manner, whereas KRAS(G13D) weakly interacted with and could not competitively inhibit NF1 and, thus, KRAS(G13D) cells remained dependent on EGFR for wild-type RAS activity. Overall, our work demonstrates how systems approaches enable mechanism-based inference in genomic medicine and can help identify patients for selective therapeutic strategies.
PXD006165	31551444	Mice depleted for Exchange Proteins Directly Activated by cAMP (Epac) exhibit irregular liver regeneration in response to partial hepatectomy. 	Mice liver tissue LC-MSMS EPAC	EPAC, Mice, hepatectomy, liver tissue	The exchange proteins directly activated by cAMP 1 and 2 (Epac1 and Epac2) are expressed in a cell specific manner in the liver, but their biological functions in this tissue are poorly understood. The current study was undertaken to begin to determine the potential roles of Epac1 and Epac2 in liver physiology and disease. Male C57BL/6J mice in which expression of Epac1 and/or Epac2 are deleted, were subjected to partial hepatectomy and the regenerating liver was analyzed with regard to lipid accumulation, cell replication and protein expression. In response to partial hepatectomy, deletion of Epac1 and/or Epac2 led to increased hepatocyte proliferation 36 h post surgery, and the transient steatosis observed in wild type mice was virtually absent in mice lacking both Epac1 and Epac2. The expression of the protein cytochrome P4504a14, which is implicated in hepatic steatosis and fibrosis, was substantially reduced upon deletion of Epac1/2, while a number of factors involved in lipid metabolism were significantly decreased. Moreover, the number of Kupffer cells was affected, and Epac2 expression was increased in the liver of wild type mice in response to partial hepatectomy, further supporting a role for these proteins in liver function. This study establishes hepatic phenotypic abnormalities in mice deleted for Epac1/2 for the first time, and introduces Epac1/2 as regulators of hepatocyte proliferation and lipid accumulation in the regenerative process.
PXD014065	31551951	Genome Wide Phosphoproteome Analysis of Zymomonas mobilis Under Anaerobic, Aerobic, and N2-Fixing Conditions. 	Genome Wide Phosphoproteome Analysis of Zymomonas Mobilis under Anaerobic, Aerobic, and N2-Fixing Conditions	Lumos, Zymomonas mobilis	Protein phosphorylation is a post-translational modification with widespread regulatory roles in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Using mass spectrometry, we performed a genome wide investigation of protein phosphorylation in the non-model organism and biofuel producer Zymomonas mobilis under anaerobic, aerobic, and N2-fixing conditions. Our phosphoproteome analysis revealed 125 unique phosphorylated proteins, belonging to major pathways such as glycolysis, TCA cycle, electron transport, nitrogen metabolism, and protein synthesis. Quantitative analysis revealed significant and widespread changes in protein phosphorylation across growth conditions. For example, we observed increased phosphorylation of nearly all glycolytic enzymes and a large fraction of ribosomal proteins during aerobic and N2-fixing conditions. We also observed substantial changes in the phosphorylation status of enzymes and regulatory proteins involved in nitrogen fixation and ammonia assimilation during N2-fixing conditions, including nitrogenase, the Rnf electron transport complex, the transcription factor NifA, GS-GOGAT cycle enzymes, and the P II regulatory protein. This suggested that protein phosphorylation may play an important role at regulating all aspects of nitrogen metabolism in Z. mobilis. This study provides new knowledge regarding the specific pathways and cellular processes that may be regulated by protein phosphorylation in this important industrial organism and provides a useful road map for future experiments that investigate the physiological role of specific phosphorylation events in Z. mobilis.
PXD013784	31552080	Arabidopsis MDN1 Is Involved in the Establishment of a Normal Seed Proteome and Seed Germination. 	Identification of MDN1-dependent proteome changes in Arabidopsis seeds	Arabidopsis seeds, MDN1, iTRAQ	Seed germination and formation are the beginning and ending, respectively, of a plant life cycle. These two processes are under fine regulation by the internal genetic information. Previously, we demonstrated that Arabidopsis MIDASIN 1 (MDN1) is required for ribosome biogenesis, and its dysfunction leads to pleiotropic developmental phenotypes, including impaired embryogenesis and slow seed germination. In this study, we further found that the weak mutant of MDN1, mdn1-1, exhibits an increased seed size phenotype. Seed proteomic analysis reveals that a number of proteins involved in seed development and response to external environments are mis-regulated by the MDN1 dysfunction. Many 2S seed storage proteins (SSPs) and late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are over-accumulated in the dry seeds of mdn1-1. Further, some genes encoding seed storage reserves are also upregulated in mdn1-1 seedlings. More interestingly, abscisic acid-insensitive 5 (ABI5) is over-accumulated in mdn1-1 seeds, and the loss of its function partially rescues the low seed germination rate of mdn1-1. Together, this study further demonstrates that MDN1 is essential for establishing a normal seed proteome, and its mutation triggers ABI5-mediated repression of seed germination.
PXD013271	31553916	Multilayered Control of Protein Turnover by TORC1 and Atg1. 	Multilayered control of protein turnover by TORC1 and ATG1	Saccharomyces cerevisiae, TORC1, autophagy, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation, rapamycin	The target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1) is a master regulator of cell homeostasis, which promotes anabolic reactions and synchronously inhibits catabolic processes such as autophagy-mediated protein degradation. Its prime autophagy target is Atg13, a subunit of the Atg1 kinase complex that acts as the gatekeeper of canonical autophagy. To study whether the activities of TORC1 and Atg1 are coupled through additional, more intricate control mechanisms than simply this linear pathway, we analyzed the epistatic relationship between TORC1 and Atg1 by using quantitative phosphoproteomics. Our in vivo data, combined with targeted in vitro TORC1 and Atg1 kinase assays, not only uncover numerous TORC1 and Atg1 effectors, but also suggest distinct bi-directional regulatory feedback loops and characterize Atg29 as a commonly regulated downstream target of both TORC1 and Atg1. Thus, an exquisitely multilayered regulatory network appears to coordinate TORC1 and Atg1 activities to robustly tune autophagy in response to nutritional cues.
PXD020914	31553917	Functional Analysis of the Replication Fork Proteome Identifies BET Proteins as PCNA Regulators. 	Functional analysis of the replication fork proteome identifies BET proteins as PCNA regulators	Replication, Replisome, chromatin, iPOND	Identifying proteins that function at replication forks is essential to understanding DNA replication, chromatin assembly, and replication-coupled DNA repair mechanisms. Combining quantitative mass spectrometry in multiple cell types with stringent statistical cutoffs, we generated a high-confidence catalog of 593 proteins that are enriched at replication forks and nascent chromatin. Loss-of-function genetic analyses indicate that 85% yield phenotypes that are consistent with activities in DNA and chromatin replication or already have described functions in these processes. We illustrate the value of this resource by identifying activities of the BET family proteins BRD2, BRD3, and BRD4 in controlling DNA replication. These proteins use their extra-terminal domains to bind and inhibit the ATAD5 complex and thereby control the amount of PCNA on chromatin.
PXD014588	31554055	Physiological and proteomic response of Escherichia coli O157:H7 to a bioprotective lactic acid bacterium in a meat environment. 	Biological strategies for mitigating Escherichia coli enterohemorragic (EHEC) colonization in meat and meat products	BACTERIAL INTERACTION, BIOPROTECTION, ESCHERICHIA COLI, LACTIC ACID BACTERIA, MEAT  PROTEOMICS	The enterohemorrhagic Escherichia (E.) coli (EHEC) is a pathogen of great concern for public health and the meat industry all over the world. The high economic losses in meat industry and the high costs of the illness highlight the necessity of additional efforts to control this pathogen. Previous studies have demonstrated the inhibitory activity of Enterococcus mundtii CRL35 towards EHEC, showing a specific proteomic response during the co-culture. In the present work, additional studies of the EHEC-Ent. mundtii interaction were carried out: i) differential protein expression of E. coli O157:H7 NCTC12900 growing in co-culture with Ent. mundtii in a meat environment, ii) the reciprocal influence between these two microorganisms in the adhesion to extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and iii) the possible induction of the phage W933, coding for Shiga toxin (Stx1), by Ent. mundtii CRL35. Proteomic analysis showed a significant repression of a number of E. coli NCTC12900 proteins in co-culture respect to its single culture, these mostly related to the metabolism and transport of amino acids and nucleotides. On the other hand, statistically significant overexpression of EHEC proteins involved in stress, energy production, amino acid metabolism and transcription was observed at 30 h respect to 6 h when EHEC grew in co-culture. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014588. Besides, EHEC showed a decreased adhesion capacity to ECM proteins in the presence of the bioprotective strain. Finally, Ent. mundtii CRL35 did not induce the lytic cycle of W933 bacteriophage, thus indicating its potential safe use for eliminating this pathogen. Overall, this study expands the knowledge of EHEC- Ent. mundtii CRL35 interaction in a meat environment, which will certainly contribute to find out effective biological strategies to eliminate this pathogen.
PXD015108	31554800	Purified F-ATP synthase forms a Ca(2+)-dependent high-conductance channel matching the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. 	Proteomic analysis of highly purified bovine  F0F1 ATP Synthase	bovine ATP synthase	The molecular identity of the mitochondrial megachannel (MMC)/permeability transition pore (PTP), a key effector of cell death, remains controversial. By combining highly purified, fully active bovine F-ATP synthase with preformed liposomes we show that Ca(2+) dissipates the H(+) gradient generated by ATP hydrolysis. After incorporation of the same preparation into planar lipid bilayers Ca(2+) elicits currents matching those of the MMC/PTP. Currents were fully reversible, were stabilized by benzodiazepine 423, a ligand of the OSCP subunit of F-ATP synthase that activates the MMC/PTP, and were inhibited by Mg(2+) and adenine nucleotides, which also inhibit the PTP. Channel activity was insensitive to inhibitors of the adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT) and of the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC). Native gel-purified oligomers and dimers, but not monomers, gave rise to channel activity. These findings resolve the long-standing mystery of the MMC/PTP and demonstrate that Ca(2+) can transform the energy-conserving F-ATP synthase into an energy-dissipating device.
PXD012047	31555049	Aerococcus urinae and Globicatella sanguinis Persist in Polymicrobial Urethral Catheter Biofilms Examined in Longitudinal Profiles at the Proteomic Level. 	Proteomic analysis of Aerococcus and Globicatella spp. colonizing polymicrobial urethral catheter biofilms	Aerococcus, Globicatella, Metaproteomics, UTI, Urethral catheter biofilms, urinary tract infection	Aerococcus urinae (Au) and Globicatella sanguinis (Gs) are gram-positive bacteria belonging to the family Aerococcaceae and colonize the human immunocompromised and catheterized urinary tract. We identified both pathogens in polymicrobial urethral catheter biofilms (CBs) with a combination of 16S rDNA sequencing, proteomic analyses, and microbial cultures. Longitudinal sampling of biofilms from serially replaced catheters revealed that each species persisted in the urinary tract of a patient in cohabitation with 1 or more gram-negative uropathogens. The Gs and Au proteomes revealed active glycolytic, heterolactic fermentation, and peptide catabolic energy metabolism pathways in an anaerobic milieu. A few phosphotransferase system (PTS)-based sugar uptake and oligopeptide ABC transport systems were highly expressed, indicating adaptations to the supply of nutrients in urine and from exfoliating squamous epithelial and urothelial cells. Differences in the Au vs Gs metabolisms pertained to citrate lyase and utilization and storage of glycogen (evident only in Gs proteomes) and to the enzyme Xfp that degrades d-xylulose-5'-phosphate and the biosynthetic pathways for 2 protein cofactors, pyridoxal 6'-phosphate and 4'-phosphopantothenate (expressed only in Au proteomes). A predicted ZnuA-like transition metal ion uptake system was identified for Gs while Au expressed 2 LPXTG-anchored surface proteins, one of which had a predicted pilin D adhesion motif. While these proteins may contribute to fitness and virulence in the human host, it cannot be ruled out that Au and Gs fill a niche in polymicrobial biofilms without being the direct cause of injury in urothelial tissues.
PXD014505	31555227	Evaluation of Sample Preparation Methods for Fast Proteotyping of Microorganisms by Tandem Mass Spectrometry. 	Proteomics of an artificial mixture of three microorganisms to evaluate sample preparation methods for tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping	Microorganisms, Sample preparation, Shotgun proteomics, proteotyping	Tandem mass spectrometry-based proteotyping allows characterizing microorganisms in terms of taxonomy and is becoming an important tool for investigating microbial diversity from several ecosystems. Fast and automatable sample preparation for obtaining peptide pools amenable to tandem mass spectrometry is necessary for enabling proteotyping as a high-throughput method. First, the protocol to increase the yield of lysis of several representative bacterial and eukaryotic microorganisms was optimized by using a long and drastic bead-beating setting with 0.1 mm silica beads, 0.1 and 0.5 mm glass beads, in presence of detergents. Then, three different methods to obtain greater digestion yield from these extracts were tested and optimized for improve efficiency and reduce application time: denaturing electrophoresis of proteins and in-gel proteolysis, suspension-trapping filter-based approach (S-Trap) and, solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation named SP3. The latter method outperforms the other two in terms of speed and delivers also more peptides and proteins than with the in-gel proteolysis (2.2 fold for both) and S-trap approaches (1.3 and 1.2 fold, respectively). Thus, SP3 directly improves tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping.
PXD013306	31555604	An Open-Format Enteroid Culture System for Interrogation of Interactions Between Toxoplasma gondii and the Intestinal Epithelium. 	An open-format enteroid culture system for interrogation of interactions between Toxoplasma gondii and the intestinal epithelium	3D enteroids, Host-pathogen interaction, Toxoplasma gondii	When transmitted through the oral route, Toxoplasma gondii first interacts with its host at the small intestinal epithelium. This interaction is crucial to controlling initial invasion and replication, as well as shaping the quality of the systemic immune response. It is therefore an attractive target for the design of novel vaccines and adjuvants. However, due to a lack of tractable infection models, we understand surprisingly little about the molecular pathways that govern this interaction. The in vitro culture of small intestinal epithelium as 3D enteroids shows great promise for modeling the epithelial response to infection. However, the enclosed luminal space makes the application of infectious agents to the apical epithelial surface challenging. Here, we have developed three novel enteroid-based techniques for modeling T. gondii infection. In particular, we have adapted enteroid culture protocols to generate collagen-supported epithelial sheets with an exposed apical surface. These cultures retain epithelial polarization, and the presence of fully differentiated epithelial cell populations. They are susceptible to infection with, and support replication of, T. gondii. Using quantitative label-free mass spectrometry, we show that T. gondii infection of the enteroid epithelium is associated with up-regulation of proteins associated with cholesterol metabolism, extracellular exosomes, intermicrovillar adhesion, and cell junctions. Inhibition of host cholesterol and isoprenoid biosynthesis with Atorvastatin resulted in a reduction in parasite load only at higher doses, indicating that de novo synthesis may support, but is not required for, parasite replication. These novel models therefore offer tractable tools for investigating how interactions between T. gondii and the host intestinal epithelium influence the course of infection.
PXD014391	31555637	Comprehensive Landscape of Active Deubiquitinating Enzymes Profiled by Advanced Chemoproteomics. 	Comprehensive landscape of active deubiquitinating enzymes profiled by advanced chemoproteomics	Deubiquitylating enzymes, chemical biology, isoforms, ubiquitin specific proteases	Enzymes that bind and process ubiquitin, a small 76-amino-acid protein, have been recognized as pharmacological targets in oncology, immunological disorders, and neurodegeneration. Mass spectrometry technology has now reached the capacity to cover the proteome with enough depth to interrogate entire biochemical pathways including those that contain DUBs and E3 ligase substrates. We have recently characterized the breast cancer cell (MCF7) deep proteome by detecting and quantifying ~10,000 proteins, and within this data set, we can detect endogenous expression of 65 deubiquitylating enzymes (DUBs), whereas matching transcriptomics detected 78 DUB mRNAs. Since enzyme activity provides another meaningful layer of information in addition to the expression levels, we have combined advanced mass spectrometry technology, pre-fractionation, and more potent/selective ubiquitin active-site probes with propargylic-based electrophiles to profile 74 DUBs including distinguishable isoforms for 5 DUBs in MCF7 crude extract material. Competition experiments with cysteine alkylating agents and pan-DUB inhibitors combined with probe labeling revealed the proportion of active cellular DUBs directly engaged with probes by label-free quantitative (LFQ) mass spectrometry. This demonstrated that USP13, 39, and 40 are non-reactive to probe, indicating restricted enzymatic activity under these cellular conditions. Our extended chemoproteomics workflow increases depth of covering the active DUBome, including isoform-specific resolution, and provides the framework for more comprehensive cell-based small-molecule DUB selectivity profiling.
PXD011035	31556459	The Arabidopsis Cdk1/Cdk2 homolog CDKA;1 controls chromosome axis assembly during plant meiosis. 	ASY1 in vitro phosphorylation.	PTM, phoshorylation, targeted proteomics	Meiosis is key to sexual reproduction and genetic diversity. Here, we show that the Arabidopsis cyclin-dependent kinase Cdk1/Cdk2 homolog CDKA;1 is an important regulator of meiosis needed for several aspects of meiosis such as chromosome synapsis. We identify the chromosome axis protein ASYNAPTIC 1 (ASY1), the Arabidopsis homolog of Hop1 (homolog pairing 1), essential for synaptonemal complex formation, as a target of CDKA;1. The phosphorylation of ASY1 is required for its recruitment to the chromosome axis via ASYNAPTIC 3 (ASY3), the Arabidopsis reductional division 1 (Red1) homolog, counteracting the disassembly activity of the AAA(+) ATPase PACHYTENE CHECKPOINT 2 (PCH2). Furthermore, we have identified the closure motif in ASY1, typical for HORMA domain proteins, and provide evidence that the phosphorylation of ASY1 regulates the putative self-polymerization of ASY1 along the chromosome axis. Hence, the phosphorylation of ASY1 by CDKA;1 appears to be a two-pronged mechanism to initiate chromosome axis formation in meiosis.
PXD014003	31556620	2018 YPIC Challenge: A Case Study in Characterizing an Unknown Protein Sample. 	YPIC challenge 2018: A case study in characterizing an unknown protein  sample	YPIC, de novo, spectral clustering, spectral networking, synthetic protein	For the 2018 YPIC Challenge, contestants were invited to try to decipher two unknown English questions encoded by a synthetic protein expressed in Escherichia coli. In addition to deciphering the sentence, contestants were asked to determine the three-dimensional structure and detect any post-translation modifications left by the host organism. We present our experimental and computational strategy to characterize this sample by identifying the unknown protein sequence and detecting the presence of post-translational modifications. The sample was acquired with dynamic exclusion disabled to increase the signal-to-noise ratio of the measured molecules, after which spectral clustering was used to generate high-quality consensus spectra. De novo spectrum identification was used to determine the synthetic protein sequence, and any post-translational modifications introduced by E. coli on the synthetic protein were analyzed via spectral networking. This workflow resulted in a de novo sequence coverage of 70%, on par with sequence database searching performance. Additionally, the spectral networking analysis indicated that no systematic modifications were introduced on the synthetic protein by E. coli. The strategy presented here can be directly used to analyze samples for which no protein sequence information is available or when the identity of the sample is unknown. All software and code to perform the bioinformatics analysis is available as open source, and self-contained Jupyter notebooks are provided to fully recreate the analysis.
PXD014547	31557021	PepSAVI-MS Reveals a Proline-rich Antimicrobial Peptide in Amaranthus tricolor. 	PepSAVI-MS reveals proline-rich antimicrobial peptide in Amaranthus tricolor	Amaranthus tricolor, Antimicrobial peptides, E. coli, PepSAVI-MS, hydroxyproline, peptidomics	Traditional medicinal plants are a rich source of antimicrobials; however, the bioactive peptide constituents of most ethnobotanical species remain largely unexplored. Herein, PepSAVI-MS, a mass spectrometry-based peptidomics pipeline, was implemented for antimicrobial peptide (AMP) discovery in the medicinal plant Amaranthus tricolor. This investigation revealed a novel 1.7 kDa AMP with strong activity against Escherichia coli ATCC 25922, deemed Atr-AMP1. Initial efforts to determine the sequence of Atr-AMP1 utilized chemical derivatization and enzymatic digestion to provide information about specific residues and post-translational modifications. EThcD (electron-transfer/higher-energy collision dissociation) produced extensive backbone fragmentation and facilitated de novo sequencing, the results of which were consistent with orthogonal characterization experiments. Additionally, multistage HCD (higher-energy collisional dissociation) facilitated discrimination between isobaric leucine and isoleucine. These results revealed a positively charged proline-rich peptide present in a heterogeneous population of multiple peptidoforms, possessing several post-translational modifications including a disulfide bond, methionine oxidation, and proline hydroxylation. Additional bioactivity screening of a simplified fraction containing Atr-AMP1 revealed activity against Staphylococcus aureus LAC, demonstrating activity against both a Gram-negative and a Gram-positive bacterial species unlike many known short chain proline-rich antimicrobial peptides.
PXD012030	31557040	Vegetative Cell and Spore Proteomes of Clostridioides difficile Show Finite Differences and Reveal Potential Protein Markers. 	Linking the Vegetative Cell and Spore Proteomes of Peptoclostridium difficile	Peptoclostridium difficile, one-pot sample processing, spores	Clostridioides difficile-associated infection (CDI) is a health-care-associated infection caused, as the name suggests, by obligate anaerobic pathogen C. difficile and thus mainly transmitted via highly resistant endospores from one person to the other. In vivo, the spores need to germinate into cells prior to establishing an infection. Bile acids and glycine, both available in sufficient amounts inside the human host intestinal tract, serve as efficient germinants for the spores. It is therefore, for better understanding of C. difficile virulence, crucial to study both the cell and spore states with respect to their genetic, metabolic, and proteomic composition. In the present study, mass spectrometric relative protein quantification, based on the (14)N/(15)N peptide isotopic ratios, has led to quantification of over 700 proteins from combined spore and cell samples. The analysis has revealed that the proteome turnover between a vegetative cell and a spore for this organism is moderate. Additionally, specific cell and spore surface proteins, vegetative cell proteins CD1228, CD3301 and spore proteins CD2487, CD2434, and CD0684 are identified as potential protein markers for C. difficile infection.
PXD009776	31557302	Overexpression of HMG-CoA synthase promotes Arabidopsis root growth and adversely affects glucosinolate biosynthesis. 	SWATH-MS analysis of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase specific inhibitor (F-244)-treated Arabidopsis	F-244, HMGS, SWATH	3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase (HMGS) catalyses the second step of the mevalonate (MVA) pathway. An HMGS inhibitor (F-244) has been reported to retard growth in wheat, tobacco, and Brassica juncea, but the mechanism remains unknown. Although the effects of HMGS on downstream isoprenoid metabolites have been extensively reported, not much is known on how it might affect non-isoprenoid metabolic pathways. Here, the mechanism of F-244-mediated inhibition of primary root growth in Arabidopsis and the relationship between HMGS and non-isoprenoid metabolic pathways were investigated by untargeted SWATH-MS quantitative proteomics, quantitative real-time PCR, and target metabolite analysis. Our results revealed that the inhibition of primary root growth caused by F-244 was a consequence of reduced stigmasterol, auxin, and cytokinin levels. Interestingly, proteomic analyses identified a relationship between HMGS and glucosinolate biosynthesis. Inhibition of HMGS activated glucosinolate biosynthesis, resulting from the induction of glucosinolate biosynthesis-related genes, suppression of sterol biosynthesis-related genes, and reduction in sterol levels. In contrast, HMGS overexpression inhibited glucosinolate biosynthesis, due to down-regulation of glucosinolate biosynthesis-related genes, up-regulation of sterol biosynthesis-related genes, and increase in sterol content. Thus, HMGS might represent a target for the manipulation of glucosinolate biosynthesis, given the regulatory relationship between HMGS in the MVA pathway and glucosinolate biosynthesis.
PXD009743	31557978	Mutations in NDUFS1 Cause Metabolic Reprogramming and Disruption of the Electron Transfer. 	Mutations in NDUFS1 Cause Metabolic Reprogramming and Disruption of the Electron Transfer	MT-ND5, Mitochondrial complex I, NDUFS1, metabolome profiling, proteome profiling	Complex I (CI) is the first enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and couples the electron transfer with proton pumping. Mutations in genes encoding CI subunits can frequently cause inborn metabolic errors. We applied proteome and metabolome profiling of patient-derived cells harboring pathogenic mutations in two distinct CI genes to elucidate underlying pathomechanisms on the molecular level. Our results indicated that the electron transfer within CI was interrupted in both patients by different mechanisms. We showed that the biallelic mutations in NDUFS1 led to a decreased stability of the entire N-module of CI and disrupted the electron transfer between two iron-sulfur clusters. Strikingly interesting and in contrast to the proteome, metabolome profiling illustrated that the pattern of dysregulated metabolites was almost identical in both patients, such as the inhibitory feedback on the TCA cycle and altered glutathione levels, indicative for reactive oxygen species (ROS) stress. Our findings deciphered pathological mechanisms of CI deficiency to better understand inborn metabolic errors.
PXD014781	31558565	Domain-specific Quantification of Prion Protein in Cerebrospinal Fluid by Targeted Mass Spectrometry. 	Prion MRM assay development and clinical study	biomarker, cerebrospinal fluid, multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry, prion, targeted mass spectrometry	Therapies currently in preclinical development for prion disease seek to lower prion protein (PrP) expression in the brain. Trials of such therapies are likely to rely on quantification of PrP in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as a pharmacodynamic biomarker and possibly as a trial endpoint. Studies using PrP ELISA kits have shown that CSF PrP is lowered in the symptomatic phase of disease, a potential confounder for reading out the effect of PrP-lowering drugs in symptomatic patients. Because misfolding or proteolytic cleavage could potentially render PrP invisible to ELISA even if its concentration were constant or increasing in disease, we sought to establish an orthogonal method for CSF PrP quantification. We developed a multi-species targeted mass spectrometry method based on multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) of nine PrP tryptic peptides quantified relative to an isotopically labeled recombinant protein standard for human samples, or isotopically labeled synthetic peptides for nonhuman species. Analytical validation experiments showed process replicate coefficients of variation below 15%, good dilution linearity and recovery, and suitable performance for both CSF and brain homogenate and across humans as well as preclinical species of interest. In n = 55 CSF samples from individuals referred to prion surveillance centers with rapidly progressive dementia, all six human PrP peptides, spanning the N- and C-terminal domains of PrP, were uniformly reduced in prion disease cases compared with individuals with nonprion diagnoses. Thus, lowered CSF PrP concentration in prion disease is a genuine result of the disease process and not an artifact of ELISA-based measurement. As a result, dose-finding studies for PrP lowering drugs may need to be conducted in presymptomatic at-risk individuals rather than in symptomatic patients. We provide a targeted mass spectrometry-based method suitable for preclinical quantification of CSF PrP as a tool for drug development.
PXD009905	31559909	Neuronal-specific microexon splicing of TAF1 mRNA is directly regulated by SRRM4/nSR100. 	SRRM4/nSR100 directs neuronal-specific microexon splicing of TAF1 mRNA involved in X-linked Dystonia-Parkinsonism	co-immunoprecipitation, epidgenetics	Neuronal microexons represent the most highly conserved class of alternative splicing events and their timed expression shapes neuronal biology, including neuronal commitment and differentiation. The six-nt microexon 34' is included in the neuronal form of TAF1 mRNA, which encodes the largest subunit of the basal transcription factor TFIID. In this study, we investigate the tissue distribution of TAF1-34' mRNA and protein and the mechanism responsible for its neuronal-specific splicing. Using isoform-specific RNA probes and antibodies, we observe that canonical TAF1 and TAF1-34' have different distributions in the brain, which distinguish proliferating from post-mitotic neurons. Knockdown and ectopic expression experiments demonstrate that the neuronal-specific splicing factor SRRM4/nSR100 promotes the inclusion of microexon 34' into TAF1 mRNA, through the recognition of UGC sequences in the poly-pyrimidine tract upstream of the regulated microexon. These results show that SRRM4 regulates temporal and spatial expression of alternative TAF1 mRNAs to generate a neuronal-specific TFIID complex.
PXD007640	31560547	Quantitative Proteomics of Th-MYCN Transgenic Mice Reveals Aurora Kinase Inhibitor Altered Metabolic Pathways and Enhanced ACADM To Suppress Neuroblastoma Progression. 	Quantitative proteomics and bioinformatics analyses reveal the mechanism of pan-aurora kinase inhibitor tozasertib in neuroblastoma	Neuroblastoma/ tozasertib/ iTRAQ/ Metabolite/ aurora kinase inhibitor.	Neuroblastoma is a neural crest-derived embryonal tumor and accounts for about 15% of all cancer deaths in children. MYCN amplification is associated with aggressive and advanced stage of high-risk neuroblastoma, which remains difficult to treat and exhibits poor survival under current multimodality treatment. Here, we analyzed the transcriptomic profiles of neuroblastoma patients and showed that aurora kinases lead to poor survival and had positive correlation with MYCN amplification and high-risk disease. Further, pan-aurora kinase inhibitor (tozasertib) treatment not only induces cell-cycle arrest and suppresses cell proliferation, migration, and invasion ability in MYCN-amplified (MNA) neuroblastoma cell lines, but also inhibits tumor growth and prolongs animal survival in Th-MYCN transgenic mice. Moreover, we performed quantitative proteomics and identified 150 differentially expressed proteins after tozasertib treatment in the Th-MYCN mouse model. The functional and network-based enrichment revealed that tozasertib alters metabolic processes and identified a mitochondrial flavoenzyme in fatty acid beta-oxidation, ACADM, which is correlated with aurora kinases and neuroblastoma patient survival. Our findings indicate that the aurora kinase inhibitor could cause metabolic imbalance, possibly by disturbing carbohydrate and fatty acid metabolic pathways, and ACADM may be a potential target in MNA neuroblastoma.
PXD014937	31560820	Isotopically Labeled Clickable Glutathione to Quantify Protein S-Glutathionylation. 	Isotopic-labelled Clickable Glutathione to Quantify Protein S-Glutathionylation	cardiomyocyte, clickable glutathione, glutathionylation	Protein S-glutathionylation is one of the important cysteine oxidation events that regulate various redox-mediated biological processes. Despite several existing methods, there are few proteomic approaches to identify and quantify specific cysteine residues susceptible to S-glutathionylation. We previously developed a clickable glutathione approach that labels intracellular glutathione with azido-Ala by using a mutant form of glutathione synthetase. In this study, we developed a quantification strategy with clickable glutathione by using isotopically labeled heavy and light derivatives of azido-Ala, which provides the relative quantification of glutathionylated peptides in mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis. We applied isotopically labeled clickable glutathione to HL-1 cardiomyocytes, quantifying relative levels of 1398 glutathionylated peptides upon addition of hydrogen peroxide. Importantly, we highlight elevated levels of glutathionylation on sarcomere-associated muscle proteins while validating glutathionylation of two structural proteins, alpha-actinin and desmin. Our report provides a chemical proteomic strategy to quantify specific glutathionylated cysteines.
PXD014113	31561202	Unbiased phosphoproteome profiling uncovers novel phosphoproteins and phosphorylation motifs in bermudagrass stolons. 	Bermudagrass stolon phosphoproteomics	Cynodon dactylon, bermudagrass, phosphoproteome, stolon	As a widely used turfgrass species, bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon L.) can be easily propagated through colonial growth of stolons. Previous studies collectively revealed that exotic environmental factors and intrinsic hormones and genes are all involved in the differentiation, development, and diageotropical growth of stolons. However, the detailed molecular mechanism how environmental and hormone signals regulate the gene expression and biochemical activities in bermudagrass stolons remains unclear. In this study, we observed that reversible phosphorylation modification plays important roles in normal growth and physiological functions of bermudagrass stolons. LC-MS/MS analyses of the total protein extracts of bermudagrass stolons without preliminary phosphopeptide-enrichment successfully identified 646 nonredundant phosphorylation sites and 485 phosphoproteins. The phosphoproteins were significantly enriched in protein phosphorylation regulation and starch metabolism processes. Motif-X analyses further revealed that phosphoproteins containing novel phosphorylation motifs might be involved in transcription regulation of bermudagrass stolons. These results greatly expanded our understanding of the growth and development of bermudagrass stolons at the post-translational level.
PXD013969	31561554	MS-Based Approaches Enable the Structural Characterization of Transcription Factor/DNA Response Element Complex. 	Structural proteomics based investigation of DNA binding domain (DBD) of FOXO4 transcription factor in complex with DNA binding element (DNA)	DNA, cross-linking, hydrogen-deuterium exchange, protein, transplatinum	The limited information available on the structure of complexes involving transcription factors and cognate DNA response elements represents a major obstacle in the quest to understand their mechanism of action at the molecular level. We implemented a concerted structural proteomics approach, which combined hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HDX), quantitative protein-protein and protein-nucleic acid cross-linking (XL), and homology analysis, to model the structure of the complex between the full-length DNA binding domain (DBD) of Forkhead box protein O4 (FOXO4) and its DNA binding element (DBE). The results confirmed that FOXO4-DBD assumes the characteristic forkhead topology shared by these types of transcription factors, but its binding mode differs significantly from those of other members of the family. The results showed that the binding interaction stabilized regions that were rather flexible and disordered in the unbound form. Surprisingly, the conformational effects were not limited only to the interface between bound components, but extended also to distal regions that may be essential to recruiting additional factors to the transcription machinery. In addition to providing valuable new insights into the binding mechanism, this project provided an excellent evaluation of the merits of structural proteomics approaches in the investigation of systems that are not directly amenable to traditional high-resolution techniques.
PXD014610	31562246	Proteomic analysis of affinity-purified 26S proteasomes identifies a suite of assembly chaperones in Arabidopsis. 	Proteomic Analysis of Affinity-Purified Proteasomes Identifies a Suite of Assembly Chaperones in Arabidopsis	chaperone, core protease, degradation, proteasome, proteolysis, regulatory particle, ubiquitin	The 26S proteasome is an essential protease that selectively eliminates dysfunctional and short-lived regulatory proteins in eukaryotes. To define the composition of this proteolytic machine in plants, we tagged either the core protease (CP) or the regulatory particle (RP) sub-complexes in Arabidopsis to enable rapid affinity purification followed by mass spectrometric analysis. Studies on proteasomes enriched from whole seedlings, with or without ATP needed to maintain the holo-proteasome complex, identified all known proteasome subunits but failed to detect isoform preferences, suggesting that Arabidopsis does not construct distinct proteasome sub-types. We also detected a suite of proteasome-interacting proteins, including likely orthologs of the yeast and mammalian chaperones Pba1, Pba2, Pba3, and Pba4 that assist in CP assembly; Ump1 that helps connect CP half-barrels; Nas2, Nas6, and Hsm3 that assist in RP assembly; and Ecm29 that promotes CP-RP association. Proteasomes from seedlings exposed to the proteasome inhibitor MG132 accumulated assembly intermediates, reflecting partially built proteasome sub-complexes associated with assembly chaperones, and the CP capped with the PA200/Blm10 regulator. Genetic analyses of Arabidopsis UMP1 revealed that, unlike in yeast, this chaperone is essential, with mutants lacking the major UMP1a and UMP1b isoforms displaying a strong gametophytic defect. Single ump1 mutants were hypersensitive to conditions that induce proteotoxic, salt and osmotic stress, and also accumulated several proteasome assembly intermediates, consistent with its importance for CP construction. Insights into the chaperones reported here should enable study of the assembly events that generate the 26S holo-proteasome in Arabidopsis from the collection of 64 or more subunits.
PXD008089	31562384	Horizontal acquisition of a patchwork Calvin cycle by symbiotic and free-living Campylobacterota (formerly Epsilonproteobacteria). 	Metaproteomics and direct Protein-SIF of the deep-sea mussel Bathymodiolus childressi and its bacterial symbionts	2D-LC-MS/MS, Calvin cy, Chemosynthetic symbiosis, Q Exactive Plus, bacteria-animal symbiosis, cold seeps, epsilonproteobacteria, methanotrophic symbionts, stable carbon isotopes, stable isotope fingerprinting	Most autotrophs use the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) cycle for carbon fixation. In contrast, all currently described autotrophs from the Campylobacterota (previously Epsilonproteobacteria) use the reductive tricarboxylic acid cycle (rTCA) instead. We discovered campylobacterotal epibionts ("Candidatus Thiobarba") of deep-sea mussels that have acquired a complete CBB cycle and may have lost most key genes of the rTCA cycle. Intriguingly, the phylogenies of campylobacterotal CBB cycle genes suggest they were acquired in multiple transfers from Gammaproteobacteria closely related to sulfur-oxidizing endosymbionts associated with the mussels, as well as from Betaproteobacteria. We hypothesize that "Ca. Thiobarba" switched from the rTCA cycle to a fully functional CBB cycle during its evolution, by acquiring genes from multiple sources, including co-occurring symbionts. We also found key CBB cycle genes in free-living Campylobacterota, suggesting that the CBB cycle may be more widespread in this phylum than previously known. Metatranscriptomics and metaproteomics confirmed high expression of CBB cycle genes in mussel-associated "Ca. Thiobarba". Direct stable isotope fingerprinting showed that "Ca. Thiobarba" has typical CBB signatures, suggesting that it uses this cycle for carbon fixation. Our discovery calls into question current assumptions about the distribution of carbon fixation pathways in microbial lineages, and the interpretation of stable isotope measurements in the environment.
PXD010275	31565104	Proteomic Comparison of Malignant Human Germ Cell Tumor Cell Lines. 	Identification of potential biomarkers in testicular cancer by SILAC and mass spectrometry	SILAC, biomarker, testis cancer	Malignant germ cell tumors (GCT) are the most common malignant tumors in young men between 18 and 40 years. The correct identification of histological subtypes, in difficult cases supported by immunohistochemistry, is essential for therapeutic management. Furthermore, biomarkers may help to understand pathophysiological processes in these tumor types. Two GCT cell lines, TCam-2 with seminoma-like characteristics, and NTERA-2, an embryonal carcinoma-like cell line, were compared by a quantitative proteomic approach using high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS) in combination with stable isotope labelling by amino acid in cell culture (SILAC). We were able to identify 4856 proteins and quantify the expression of 3936. 347 were significantly differentially expressed between the two cell lines. For further validation, CD81, CBX-3, PHF6, and ENSA were analyzed by western blot analysis. The results confirmed the MS results. Immunohistochemical analysis on 59 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) normal and GCT tissue samples (normal testis, GCNIS, seminomas, and embryonal carcinomas) of these proteins demonstrated the ability to distinguish different GCT subtypes, especially seminomas and embryonal carcinomas. In addition, siRNA-mediated knockdown of these proteins resulted in an antiproliferative effect in TCam-2, NTERA-2, and an additional embryonal carcinoma-like cell line, NCCIT. In summary, this study represents a proteomic resource for the discrimination of malignant germ cell tumor subtypes and the observed antiproliferative effect after knockdown of selected proteins paves the way for the identification of new potential drug targets.
PXD013711	31566388	Constructing a Tandem Mass Spectral Library for Forensic Ricin Identification. 	Constructing a Tandem Mass Spectral Library for Forensic Ricin Identification	Castor, Forensic proteomics, Ricin, Spectral library	Ricin, a protein found in castor seeds, is a lethal toxin that is designated as a category 2 select agent, and cases of attempted ricin poisoning are relatively common. Many methods to detect protein toxins such as ricin use targeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify toxin peptides, usually tryptic peptides. The successful use of untargeted methods has also been reported. However, the use of untargeted proteomics methods, including database search, for peptide and protein identification is less common in forensic practice and may be unfamiliar to forensic science practitioners. Here, we propose a method to create spectral libraries of tryptic ricin peptides and use these libraries for ricin identification by spectral library search, which may be more familiar to forensic scientists because of the use of spectral libraries in small molecule identification. Peptide spectral libraries offer a direct comparison to an authentic standard, a key element of forensic analysis, but have not previously been used in a forensic context. To construct these spectral libraries, two pure ricin samples (one from a proposed standard reference material) were digested with trypsin and analyzed using a standard shotgun LC-MS/MS protocol. Spectral libraries were created from resulting tryptic peptides identified from filtered search results from four database search tools. The library was then used in a search using SpectraST on forensically realistic castor seed extracts. These castor seed samples were made using the crude methods commonly encountered in real-world ricin cases. Analysis showed that the spectral library search resulted in more peptides identified from crude castor seed samples compared to MS-GF+ and Sequest plus Percolator database searches. These results, the first published use of spectral library search to detect protein toxins in forensically relevant samples, suggest that computational comparison of putative ricin peptide spectra to library spectra can be an effective method to detect ricin in an unknown sample. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013711.
PXD010094	31569265	Assessment of chemical-crosslink-assisted protein structure modeling in CASP13. 	CASP XL-MS target H0953 (ID 51): Cross-linking for the 13th Community Wide Experiment on the Critical Assessment of Techniques for Protein Structure Prediction (CASP13)	CASP, Chemical cross-linking, DMTMM, DSS, PDH, structural proteomics	With the advance of experimental procedures obtaining chemical crosslinking information is becoming a fast and routine practice. Information on crosslinks can greatly enhance the accuracy of protein structure modeling. Here, we review the current state of the art in modeling protein structures with the assistance of experimentally determined chemical crosslinks within the framework of the 13th meeting of Critical Assessment of Structure Prediction approaches. This largest-to-date blind assessment reveals benefits of using data assistance in difficult to model protein structure prediction cases. However, in a broader context, it also suggests that with the unprecedented advance in accuracy to predict contacts in recent years, experimental crosslinks will be useful only if their specificity and accuracy further improved and they are better integrated into computational workflows.
PXD016639	31570166	SSEThread: Integrative threading of the DNA-PKcs sequence based on data from chemical cross-linking and hydrogen deuterium exchange. 	Integrative Threading of the DNA-PKcs Disordered Region with Crosslinking Restraints	Crosslinking-MS, DNA-PKcs, Integrative Modelling	X-ray crystallography and electron microscopy maps resolved to 3-8 Aa are generally sufficient for tracing the path of the polypeptide chain in space, while often insufficient for unambiguously registering the sequence on the path (i.e., threading). Frequently, however, additional information is available from other biophysical experiments, physical principles, statistical analyses, and other prior models. Here, we formulate an integrative approach for sequence assignment to a partial backbone model as an optimization problem, which requires three main components: the representation of the system, the scoring function, and the optimization method. The method is implemented in the open source Integrative Modeling Platform (IMP) (https://integrativemodeling.org), allowing a number of different terms in the scoring function. We apply this method to localizing the sequence assignment within a 199-residue disordered region of three structured and sequence unassigned helices in the DNA-PKcs crystallographic structure, using chemical crosslinks, hydrogen deuterium exchange, and sequence connectivity. The resulting ensemble of threading models provides two major solutions, one of which suggests that the crucial ABCDE cluster of phosphorylation sites cannot undergo intra-molecular autophosphorylation without a conformational rearrangement. The ensemble of solutions embodies the most accurate and precise sequence threading given the available information.
PXD015194	31570497	Quantitative Proteomics of Uukuniemi Virus-host Cell Interactions Reveals GBF1 as Proviral Host Factor for Phleboviruses. 	Quantitative proteomics of Uukuniemi virus - host cell interactions reveals GBF1 as proviral host factor for phleboviruses	GBF1, Phenuiviridae, alphavirus, flavivirus, hepacivirus, phlebovirus, quantitative proteomics, retrovirus, rhabdovirus, viral, viral assembly, viral glycoprotein interactions, viral replication	Novel tick-borne phleboviruses in the Phenuiviridae family, which are highly pathogenic in humans and all closely related to Uukuniemi virus (UUKV), have recently emerged on different continents. How phleboviruses assemble, bud, and exit cells remains largely elusive. Here, we performed high-resolution, label-free mass spectrometry analysis of UUKV immunoprecipitated from cell lysates and identified 39 cellular partners interacting with the viral envelope glycoproteins. The importance of these host factors for UUKV infection was validated by silencing each host factor by RNA interference. This revealed Golgi-specific brefeldin A-resistance guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (GBF1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor resident in the Golgi, as a critical host factor required for the UUKV life cycle. An inhibitor of GBF1, Golgicide A, confirmed the role of the cellular factor in UUKV infection. We could pinpoint the GBF1 requirement to UUKV replication and particle assembly. When the investigation was extended to viruses from various positive and negative RNA viral families, we found that not only phleboviruses rely on GBF1 for infection, but also Flavi-, Corona-, Rhabdo-, and Togaviridae In contrast, silencing or blocking GBF1 did not abrogate infection by the human adenovirus serotype 5 and immunodeficiency retrovirus type 1, the replication of both requires nuclear steps. Together our results indicate that UUKV relies on GBF1 for viral replication, assembly and egress. This study also highlights the proviral activity of GBF1 in the infection by a broad range of important zoonotic RNA viruses.
PXD012882	31570499	Borealin-nucleosome interaction secures chromosome association of the chromosomal passenger complex. 	Direct Nucleosome Binding of Borealin Secures Chromosome Association of the Chromosomal Passenger Complex	Chromosomal Passenger Complex, Crosslinking, Nucleosome core particles	Chromosome association of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC; consisting of Borealin, Survivin, INCENP, and the Aurora B kinase) is essential to achieve error-free chromosome segregation during cell division. Hence, understanding the mechanisms driving the chromosome association of the CPC is of paramount importance. Here using a multifaceted approach, we show that the CPC binds nucleosomes through a multivalent interaction predominantly involving Borealin. Strikingly, Survivin, previously suggested to target the CPC to centromeres, failed to bind nucleosomes on its own and requires Borealin and INCENP for its binding. Disrupting Borealin-nucleosome interactions excluded the CPC from chromosomes and caused chromosome congression defects. We also show that Borealin-mediated chromosome association of the CPC is critical for Haspin- and Bub1-mediated centromere enrichment of the CPC and works upstream of the latter. Our work thus establishes Borealin as a master regulator determining the chromosome association and function of the CPC.
PXD014884	31570835	A Pandas complex adapted for piRNA-guided transcriptional silencing and heterochromatin formation. 	A Pandas complex adapted for piRNA-guided transposon silencing and heterochromatin formation	Panoramix, RNA export, crystal structure, dNxf1/TAP, dNxf2, dNxt1/p15, heterochromatin, piRNA, transposon	The repression of transposons by the Piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway is essential to protect animal germ cells. In Drosophila, Panoramix enforces transcriptional silencing by binding to the target-engaged Piwi-piRNA complex, although the precise mechanisms by which this occurs remain elusive. Here, we show that Panoramix functions together with a germline-specific paralogue of a nuclear export factor, dNxf2, and its cofactor dNxt1 (p15), to suppress transposon expression. The transposon RNA-binding protein dNxf2 is required for animal fertility and Panoramix-mediated silencing. Transient tethering of dNxf2 to nascent transcripts leads to their nuclear retention. The NTF2 domain of dNxf2 competes dNxf1 (TAP) off nucleoporins, a process required for proper RNA export. Thus, dNxf2 functions in a Panoramix-dNxf2-dependent TAP/p15 silencing (Pandas) complex that counteracts the canonical RNA exporting machinery and restricts transposons to the nuclear peripheries. Our findings may have broader implications for understanding how RNA metabolism modulates heterochromatin formation.
PXD011931	31572778	PhoX: An IMAC-Enrichable Cross-Linking Reagent. 	PhoX - An IMAC-enrichable Crosslinking Reagent	IMAC enrichable crosslinker, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Tri-functional crosslinker, XlinkX, crosslinking mass spectrometry, phosphonic acid, structural biology	Chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry is rapidly emerging as a prominent technique to study protein structures. Structural information is obtained by covalently connecting peptides in close proximity by small reagents and identifying the resulting peptide pairs by mass spectrometry. However, substoichiometric reaction efficiencies render routine detection of cross-linked peptides problematic. Here, we present a new trifunctional cross-linking reagent, termed PhoX, which is decorated with a stable phosphonic acid handle. This makes the cross-linked peptides amenable to the well-established immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) enrichment. The handle allows for 300x enrichment efficiency and 97% specificity. We exemplify the approach on various model proteins and protein complexes, e.g., resulting in a structural model of the LRP1/RAP complex. Almost completely removing linear peptides allows PhoX, although noncleavable, to be applied to complex lysates. Focusing the database search to the 1400 most abundant proteins, we were able to identify 1156 cross-links in a single 3 h measurement.
PXD013191	31575732	LGP2 binds to PACT to regulate RIG-I- and MDA5-mediated antiviral responses. 	LGP2 binds PACT to regulate RIG-I- and MDA5-mediated antiviral response	LGP2, PACT, RIG-1, RNA silencing machinery, virus	The retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptors (RLRs) RIG-I, MDA5, and LGP2 stimulate inflammatory and antiviral responses by sensing nonself RNA molecules produced during viral replication. Here, we investigated how LGP2 regulates the RIG-I- and MDA5-dependent induction of type I interferon (IFN) signaling and showed that LGP2 interacted with different components of the RNA-silencing machinery. We identified a direct protein-protein interaction between LGP2 and the IFN-inducible, double-stranded RNA binding protein PACT. The LGP2-PACT interaction was mediated by the regulatory C-terminal domain of LGP2 and was necessary for inhibiting RIG-I-dependent responses and for amplifying MDA5-dependent responses. We described a point mutation within LGP2 that disrupted the LGP2-PACT interaction and led to the loss of LGP2-mediated regulation of RIG-I and MDA5 signaling. These results suggest a model in which the LGP2-PACT interaction regulates the inflammatory responses mediated by RIG-I and MDA5 and enables the cellular RNA-silencing machinery to coordinate with the innate immune response.
PXD015292	31575863	Functional recruitment of dynamin requires multimeric interactions for efficient endocytosis. 	Proteomic analysis of the cellular targets of a divalent synthetic SH3 domain ligand	Pull-down/Synthetic peptide/SH3 domains	During clathrin mediated endocytosis (CME), the concerted action of dynamin and its interacting partners drives membrane scission. Essential interactions occur between the proline/arginine-rich domain of dynamin (dynPRD) and the Src-homology domain 3 (SH3) of various proteins including amphiphysins. Here we show that multiple SH3 domains must bind simultaneously to dynPRD through three adjacent motifs for dynamin's efficient recruitment and function. First, we show that mutant dynamins modified in a single motif, including the central amphiphysin SH3 (amphSH3) binding motif, partially rescue CME in dynamin triple knock-out cells. However, mutating two motifs largely prevents that ability. Furthermore, we designed divalent dynPRD-derived peptides. These ligands bind multimers of amphSH3 with >100-fold higher affinity than monovalent ones in vitro. Accordingly, dialyzing living cells with these divalent peptides through a patch-clamp pipette blocks CME much more effectively than with monovalent ones. We conclude that dynamin drives vesicle scission via multivalent interactions in cells.
PXD012592	31575873	The ubiquitin-like modifier FAT10 interferes with SUMO activation. 	The ubiquitin-like modifier FAT10 interferes with SUMO activation	Fat10, SumoE1, XL-MS, q-XL-MS	The covalent attachment of the cytokine-inducible ubiquitin-like modifier HLA-F adjacent transcript 10 (FAT10) to hundreds of substrate proteins leads to their rapid degradation by the 26 S proteasome independently of ubiquitylation. Here, we identify another function of FAT10, showing that it interferes with the activation of SUMO1/2/3 in vitro and down-regulates SUMO conjugation and the SUMO-dependent formation of promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) bodies in cells. Mechanistically, we show that FAT10 directly binds to and impedes the activity of the heterodimeric SUMO E1 activating enzyme AOS1/UBA2 by competing very efficiently with SUMO for activation and thioester formation. Nevertheless, activation of FAT10 by AOS1/UBA2 does not lead to covalent conjugation of FAT10 with substrate proteins which relies on its cognate E1 enzyme UBA6. Hence, we report that one ubiquitin-like modifier (FAT10) inhibits the conjugation and function of another ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) by impairing its activation.
PXD014927	31576058	Molecular identification of a BAR domain-containing coat complex for endosomal recycling of transmembrane proteins. 	Molecular identification of a BAR domain-containing coat complex for endosomal recycling of transmembrane proteins	CI-MPR, SNX-BARs, endocytosis, endosomes, transmembrane proteins	Protein trafficking requires coat complexes that couple recognition of sorting motifs in transmembrane cargoes with biogenesis of transport carriers. The mechanisms of cargo transport through the endosomal network are poorly understood. Here, we identify a sorting motif for endosomal recycling of cargoes, including the cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor and semaphorin 4C, by the membrane tubulating BAR domain-containing sorting nexins SNX5 and SNX6. Crystal structures establish that this motif folds into a beta-hairpin, which binds a site in the SNX5/SNX6 phox homology domains. Over sixty cargoes share this motif and require SNX5/SNX6 for their recycling. These include cargoes involved in neuronal migration and a Drosophila snx6 mutant displays defects in axonal guidance. These studies identify a sorting motif and provide molecular insight into an evolutionary conserved coat complex, the 'Endosomal SNX-BAR sorting complex for promoting exit 1' (ESCPE-1), which couples sorting motif recognition to the BAR-domain-mediated biogenesis of cargo-enriched tubulo-vesicular transport carriers.
PXD008539	31576060	The NSL complex maintains nuclear architecture stability via lamin A/C acetylation. 	Lamin A acetylation shapes nuclear architecture and safeguards genomic integrity	QExactive, acetylation	While nuclear lamina abnormalities are hallmarks of human diseases, their interplay with epigenetic regulators and precise epigenetic landscape remain poorly understood. Here, we show that loss of the lysine acetyltransferase MOF or its associated NSL-complex members KANSL2 or KANSL3 leads to a stochastic accumulation of nuclear abnormalities with genomic instability patterns including chromothripsis. SILAC-based MOF and KANSL2 acetylomes identified lamin A/C as an acetylation target of MOF. HDAC inhibition or acetylation-mimicking lamin A derivatives rescue nuclear abnormalities observed in MOF-deficient cells. Mechanistically, loss of lamin A/C acetylation resulted in its increased solubility, defective phosphorylation dynamics and impaired nuclear mechanostability. We found that nuclear abnormalities include EZH2-dependent histone H3 Lys 27 trimethylation and loss of nascent transcription. We term this altered epigenetic landscape "heterochromatin enrichment in nuclear abnormalities" (HENA). Collectively, the NSL-complex-dependent lamin A/C acetylation provides a mechanism that maintains nuclear architecture and genome integrity.
PXD013837	31576646	Tissue Proteome Signatures Associated with Five Grades of Prostate Cancer and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia. 	Tissue Proteome Signatures Associated with Five Grades of Prostate Cancer and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia	prostate cancer, tissue	The histology-based Gleason score (GS) of prostate cancer (PCa) tissue biopsy is the most accurate predictor of disease aggressiveness and an important measure to guide treatment strategies and patient management. The variability associated with PCa tumor sampling and the subjective determination of the GS are challenges that limit accurate diagnostication and prognostication. Thus, novel molecular signatures are needed to distinguish between indolent and aggressive forms of PCa for better patient management and outcomes. Herein, label-free LC-MS/MS proteomics is used to profile the proteome of 50 PCa tissues spanning five grade groups (n = 10 per group) relative to tissues from individuals with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Over 2000 proteins are identified albeit at different levels between and within the patient groups, revealing biological processes associated with specific grades. A panel of 11 prostate-derived proteins including IGKV3D-20, RNASET2, TACC2, ANXA7, LMOD1, PRCP, GYG1, NDUFV1, H1FX, APOBEC3C, and CTSZ display the potential to stratify patients from low and high PCa grade groups. Parallel reaction monitoring of the same sample cohort validate the differential expression of LMOD1, GYG1, IGKV3D-20, and RNASET2. The four proteins associated with low and high PCa grades reported here warrant further exploration as candidate biomarkers for PCa aggressiveness.
PXD012697	31576747	Mevalonate Pathway Promiscuity Enables Noncanonical Terpene Production. 	Exploring Non-Canonical Terpene Space With a Heterologous Lepidopteran Mevalonate Pathway	HDMAPP, HIPP, Juvenile Hormones, Mevalonate Pathway, Terpenes, homodimethylallyl pyrophosphate, homoisopentenyl pyrophosphate	Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths) make the six-carbon compounds homoisopentenyl pyrophosphate (HIPP) and homodimethylallyl pyrophosphate (HDMAPP) that are incorporated into 16, 17, and 18 carbon farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) analogues. In this work we heterologously expressed the lepidopteran modified mevalonate pathway, a propionyl-CoA ligase, and terpene cyclases in E. coli to produce several novel terpenes containing 16 carbons. Changing the terpene cyclase generated different novel terpene product profiles. To further validate the new compounds we confirmed (13)C propionate was incorporated, and that the masses and fragmentation patterns were consistent with novel 16 carbon terpenes by GC-QTOF. On the basis of the available farnesyl pyrophosphate analogues lepidoptera produce, this approach should greatly expand the reachable biochemical space with applications in areas where terpenes have traditionally found uses.
PXD012507	31578219	Critical Role of a Sheath Phosphorylation Site On the Assembly and Function of an Atypical Type VI Secretion System. 	Phosphorylation Francisella   .	Francisella, Phosphorylation, type VI secretion system	The bacterial pathogen Francisella tularensis possesses a noncanonical type VI secretion system (T6SS) that is required for phagosomal escape in infected macrophages. KCl stimulation has been previously used to trigger assembly and secretion of the T6SS in culture. By differential proteomics, we found here that the amounts of the T6SS proteins remained unchanged upon KCl stimulation, suggesting involvement of post-translational modifications in T6SS assembly. A phosphoproteomic analysis indeed identified a unique phosphorylation site on IglB, a key component of the T6SS sheath. Substitutions of Y139 with alanine or phosphomimetics prevented T6SS formation and abolished phagosomal escape whereas substitution with phenylalanine delayed but did not abolish phagosomal escape in J774-1 macrophages. Altogether our data demonstrated that the Y139 site of IglB plays a critical role in T6SS biogenesis, suggesting that sheath phosphorylation could participate to T6SS dynamics.Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013619; and on MS-Viewer, key lkaqkllxwx.
PXD015240	31578220	NNAlign_MA; MHC Peptidome Deconvolution for Accurate MHC Binding Motif Characterization and Improved T-cell Epitope Predictions. 	NNAlign_MA; MHC peptidome deconvolution for accurate MHC binding motif characterization and improved T cell epitope predictions	BoLA ligandome, Immunopeptidomics	The set of peptides presented on a cell's surface by MHC molecules is known as the immunopeptidome. Current mass spectrometry technologies allow for identification of large peptidomes, and studies have proven these data to be a rich source of information for learning the rules of MHC-mediated antigen presentation. Immunopeptidomes are usually poly-specific, containing multiple sequence motifs matching the MHC molecules expressed in the system under investigation. Motif deconvolution -the process of associating each ligand to its presenting MHC molecule(s)- is therefore a critical and challenging step in the analysis of MS-eluted MHC ligand data. Here, we describe NNAlign_MA, a computational method designed to address this challenge and fully benefit from large, poly-specific data sets of MS-eluted ligands. NNAlign_MA simultaneously performs the tasks of (1) clustering peptides into individual specificities; (2) automatic annotation of each cluster to an MHC molecule; and (3) training of a prediction model covering all MHCs present in the training set. NNAlign_MA was benchmarked on large and diverse data sets, covering class I and class II data. In all cases, the method was demonstrated to outperform state-of-the-art methods, effectively expanding the coverage of alleles for which accurate predictions can be made, resulting in improved identification of both eluted ligands and T-cell epitopes. Given its high flexibility and ease of use, we expect NNAlign_MA to serve as an effective tool to increase our understanding of the rules of MHC antigen presentation and guide the development of novel T-cell-based therapeutics.
PXD013588	31578252	Mining for protein S-sulfenylation in Arabidopsis uncovers redox-sensitive sites. 	Protein S-sulfenylation Arabidopsis - AtMAPK4	AtMAPK4, MPK4, Mitogen-activated protein kinase, S-sulfenylation, cysteine oxidation	Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is an important messenger molecule for diverse cellular processes. H2O2 oxidizes proteinaceous cysteinyl thiols to sulfenic acid, also known as S-sulfenylation, thereby affecting the protein conformation and functionality. Although many proteins have been identified as S-sulfenylation targets in plants, site-specific mapping and quantification remain largely unexplored. By means of a peptide-centric chemoproteomics approach, we mapped 1,537 S-sulfenylated sites on more than 1,000 proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana cells. Proteins involved in RNA homeostasis and metabolism were identified as hotspots for S-sulfenylation. Moreover, S-sulfenylation frequently occurred on cysteines located at catalytic sites of enzymes or on cysteines involved in metal binding, hinting at a direct mode of action for redox regulation. Comparison of human and Arabidopsis S-sulfenylation datasets provided 155 conserved S-sulfenylated cysteines, including Cys181 of the Arabidopsis MITOGEN-ACTIVATED PROTEIN KINASE4 (AtMAPK4) that corresponds to Cys161 in the human MAPK1, which has been identified previously as being S-sulfenylated. We show that, by replacing Cys181 of recombinant AtMAPK4 by a redox-insensitive serine residue, the kinase activity decreased, indicating the importance of this noncatalytic cysteine for the kinase mechanism. Altogether, we quantitatively mapped the S-sulfenylated cysteines in Arabidopsis cells under H2O2 stress and thereby generated a comprehensive view on the S-sulfenylation landscape that will facilitate downstream plant redox studies.
PXD015233	31578417	Binding to medium and long chain fatty acyls is a common property of HEAT and ARM repeat modules. 	Lysine fatty-acyl H3 peptide pulldown with HeLa SILAC nuclear extract	Homo sapiens, Orbitrap Elite	Covalent post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins with acyl groups of various carbon chain-lengths regulates diverse biological processes ranging from chromatin dynamics to subcellular localization. While the YEATS domain has been found to be a prominent reader of acetylation and other short acyl modifications, whether additional acyl-lysine reader domains exist, particularly for longer carbon chains, is unclear. Here, we employed a quantitative proteomic approach using various modified peptide baits to identify reader proteins of various acyl modifications. We discovered that proteins harboring HEAT and ARM repeats bind to lysine myristoylated peptides. Recombinant HEAT and ARM repeats bind to myristoylated peptides independent of the peptide sequence or the position of the myristoyl group. Indeed, HEAT and ARM repeats bind directly to medium- and long-chain free fatty acids (MCFA and LCFA). Lipidomic experiments suggest that MCFAs and LCFAs interact with HEAT and ARM repeat proteins in mammalian cells. Finally, treatment of cells with exogenous MCFAs and inhibitors of MCFA-CoA synthases increase the transactivation activity of the ARM repeat protein beta-catenin. Taken together, our results suggest an unappreciated role for fatty acids in the regulation of proteins harboring HEAT or ARM repeats.
PXD013769	31578520	Structure of the inner kinetochore CCAN complex assembled onto a centromeric nucleosome. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometry of the CCAN and CCAN-Cenp-A complexes	Inner kinetochore complex, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, S.Cerevisiae, XL-MS, cryo-EM structure	In eukaryotes, accurate chromosome segregation in mitosis and meiosis maintains genome stability and prevents aneuploidy. Kinetochores are large protein complexes that, by assembling onto specialized Cenp-A nucleosomes(1,2), function to connect centromeric chromatin to microtubules of the mitotic spindle(3,4). Whereas the centromeres of vertebrate chromosomes comprise millions of DNA base pairs and attach to multiple microtubules, the simple point centromeres of budding yeast are connected to individual microtubules(5,6). All 16 budding yeast chromosomes assemble complete kinetochores using a single Cenp-A nucleosome (Cenp-A(Nuc)), each of which is perfectly centred on its cognate centromere(7-9). The inner and outer kinetochore modules are responsible for interacting with centromeric chromatin and microtubules, respectively. Here we describe the cryo-electron microscopy structure of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae inner kinetochore module, the constitutive centromere associated network (CCAN) complex, assembled onto a Cenp-A nucleosome (CCAN-Cenp-A(Nuc)). The structure explains the interdependency of the constituent subcomplexes of CCAN and shows how the Y-shaped opening of CCAN accommodates Cenp-A(Nuc) to enable specific CCAN subunits to contact the nucleosomal DNA and histone subunits. Interactions with the unwrapped DNA duplex at the two termini of Cenp-A(Nuc) are mediated predominantly by a DNA-binding groove in the Cenp-L-Cenp-N subcomplex. Disruption of these interactions impairs assembly of CCAN onto Cenp-A(Nuc). Our data indicate a mechanism of Cenp-A nucleosome recognition by CCAN and how CCAN acts as a platform for assembly of the outer kinetochore to link centromeres to the mitotic spindle for chromosome segregation.
PXD015445	31581206	Artificial fingerprints for cross-comparison of forensic DNA and protein recovery methods. 	Proteomic Analysis of Protein in Human Fingerprints and Artificial Fingerprints	Artificial Fingerprint, Forensics, Latent Fingerprint, Protemics	Quantitative genomic and proteomic evaluation of human latent fingerprint depositions represents a challenge within the forensic field, due to the high variability in the amount of DNA and protein initially deposited. To better assess recovery techniques for touch depositions, we present a method to produce simple and customizable artificial fingerprints. These artificial fingerprint samples include the primary components of a typical latent fingerprint, specifically sebaceous fluid, eccrine perspiration, extracellular DNA, and proteinaceous epidermal skin material (i.e., shed skin cells). A commercially available emulsion of sebaceous and eccrine perspiration material provides a chemically-relevant suspension solution for fingerprint deposition, simplifying artificial fingerprint production. Extracted human genomic DNA is added to accurately mimic the extracellular DNA content of a typical latent print and comparable DNA yields are recovered from the artificial prints relative to human prints across surface types. Capitalizing on recent advancements in the use of protein sequence identification for human forensic analysis, these samples also contain a representative quantity of protein, originating from epidermal skin cells collected from the fingers and palms of volunteers. Proteomic sequencing by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis indicates a high level of protein overlap between artificial and latent prints. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015445. By including known quantities of DNA and protein into each artificial print, this method enables total DNA and protein recovery to be quantitatively assessed across different sample collection and extraction methods to better evaluate extraction efficiency. Collectively, these artificial fingerprint samples are simple to make, highly versatile and customizable, and accurately represent the biochemical composition and biological signatures of human fingerprints.
PXD014350	31581776	Quantitative Subcellular Proteomics of the Orbitofrontal Cortex of Schizophrenia Patients. 	QUANTITATIVE SUBCELLULAR PROTEOMICS OF THE ORBITOFRONTAL CORTEX OF SCHIZOPHRENIA PATIENTS	Schizophrenia, cellular fractions, quantification	Schizophrenia is a chronic disease characterized by the impairment of mental functions with a marked social dysfunction. A quantitative proteomic approach using iTRAQ labeling and SRM, applied to the characterization of mitochondria (MIT), crude nuclear fraction (NUC), and cytoplasm (CYT), can allow the observation of dynamic changes in cell compartments providing valuable insights concerning schizophrenia physiopathology. Mass spectrometry analyses of the orbitofrontal cortex from 12 schizophrenia patients and 8 healthy controls identified 655 protein groups in the MIT fraction, 1500 in NUC, and 1591 in CYT. We found 166 groups of proteins dysregulated among all enriched cellular fractions. Through the quantitative proteomic analysis, we detect as the main biological pathways those related to calcium and glutamate imbalance, cell signaling disruption of CREB activation, axon guidance, and proteins involved in the activation of NF-kB signaling along with the increase of complement protein C3. Based on our data analysis, we suggest the activation of NF-kB as a possible pathway that links the deregulation of glutamate, calcium, apoptosis, and the activation of the immune system in schizophrenia patients. All MS data are available in the ProteomeXchange Repository under the identifier PXD015356 and PXD014350.
PXD012819	31582665	Leucine-Rich Alpha-2-Glycoprotein 1 in Serum Is a Possible Biomarker to Predict Response to Preoperative Chemoradiotherapy for Esophageal Cancer. 	Proteome analysis of human serum from the esophageal cancer patient before preoperative chemoradiotherapy	esophageal cancer, pre-PCRT, serum	The purpose of the present study was to identify a biomarker that can predict the response to preoperative chemoradiotherapy (PCRT) in esophageal cancer patients. Twenty-five serum samples collected from patents with esophageal cancer before PCRT (responder = 13, non-responder = 12) were analyzed by quantitative proteomics, and 248 proteins were identified. Among them, the serum levels of leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 (LRG1) were significantly different (p < 0.01) and well discriminated (area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve >0.8) between responder and non-responder groups. The combination of LRG1 with C-reactive protein (CRP) and soluble interleukin-6 receptor (sIL-6R), which were previously reported as biomarkers predicting PCRT response, further improved the predictive performance, providing an AUC of greater than 0.9. The present results suggest that LRG1 and its combination with CRP and sIL-6R are promising biomarker candidates to predict response to PCRT in esophageal cancer patients.
PXD004055	31585087	Oncogenic Mutations Rewire Signaling Pathways by Switching Protein Recruitment to Phosphotyrosine Sites. 	Large-scale phosphorylation site interaction proteomics	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, interaction proteomics, phosphorylation	Tyrosine phosphorylation regulates multi-layered signaling networks with broad implications in (patho)physiology, but high-throughput methods for functional annotation of phosphotyrosine sites are lacking. To decipher phosphotyrosine signaling directly in tissue samples, we developed a mass-spectrometry-based interaction proteomics approach. We measured the in vivo EGF-dependent signaling network in lung tissue quantifying >1,000 phosphotyrosine sites. To assign function to all EGF-regulated sites, we determined their recruited protein signaling complexes in lung tissue by interaction proteomics. We demonstrated how mutations near tyrosine residues introduce molecular switches that rewire cancer signaling networks, and we revealed oncogenic properties of such a lung cancer EGFR mutant. To demonstrate the scalability of the approach, we performed >1,000 phosphopeptide pulldowns and analyzed them by rapid mass spectrometric analysis, revealing tissue-specific differences in interactors. Our approach is a general strategy for functional annotation of phosphorylation sites in tissues, enabling in-depth mechanistic insights into oncogenic rewiring of signaling networks.
PXD014970	31585987	Fast and Accurate Bacterial Species Identification in Urine Specimens Using LC-MS/MS Mass Spectrometry and Machine Learning. 	Peptide signature for the fast detection of bacterial species in Urinary Tract infections using LC-MS	Bacterial identification, Peptide signature, Urine	Fast identification of microbial species in clinical samples is essential to provide an appropriate antibiotherapy to the patient and reduce the prescription of broad-spectrum antimicrobials leading to antibioresistances. MALDI-TOF-MS technology has become a tool of choice for microbial identification but has several drawbacks: it requires a long step of bacterial culture before analysis (>=24 h), has a low specificity and is not quantitative. We developed a new strategy for identifying bacterial species in urine using specific LC-MS/MS peptidic signatures. In the first training step, libraries of peptides are obtained on pure bacterial colonies in DDA mode, their detection in urine is then verified in DIA mode, followed by the use of machine learning classifiers (NaiveBayes, BayesNet and Hoeffding tree) to define a peptidic signature to distinguish each bacterial species from the others. Then, in the second step, this signature is monitored in unknown urine samples using targeted proteomics. This method, allowing bacterial identification in less than 4 h, has been applied to fifteen species representing 84% of all Urinary Tract Infections. More than 31,000 peptides in 190 samples were quantified by DIA and classified by machine learning to determine an 82 peptides signature and build a prediction model. This signature was validated for its use in routine using Parallel Reaction Monitoring on two different instruments. Linearity and reproducibility of the method were demonstrated as well as its accuracy on donor specimens. Within 4h and without bacterial culture, our method was able to predict the predominant bacteria infecting a sample in 97% of cases and 100% above the standard threshold. This work demonstrates the efficiency of our method for the rapid and specific identification of the bacterial species causing UTI and could be extended in the future to other biological specimens and to bacteria having specific virulence or resistance factors.
PXD014774	31585998	Glucose-Mediated Repression of Plant Biomass Utilization in the White-Rot Fungus Dichomitus squalens. 	Widespread glucose-mediated repression of plant biomass utilization in the white-rot fungus Dichomitus squalens	CAZymes, Dichomitus, carbon catabolite repression, regulation	The extent of carbon catabolite repression (CCR) at a global level is unknown in wood-rotting fungi, which are critical to the carbon cycle and are a source of biotechnological enzymes. CCR occurs in the presence of sufficient concentrations of easily metabolizable carbon sources (e.g., glucose) and involves downregulation of the expression of genes encoding enzymes involved in the breakdown of complex carbon sources. We investigated this phenomenon in the white-rot fungus Dichomitus squalens using transcriptomics and exoproteomics. In D. squalens cultures, approximately 7% of genes were repressed in the presence of glucose compared to Avicel or xylan alone. The glucose-repressed genes included the essential components for utilization of plant biomass-carbohydrate-active enzyme (CAZyme) and carbon catabolic genes. The majority of polysaccharide-degrading CAZyme genes were repressed and included activities toward all major carbohydrate polymers present in plant cell walls, while repression of ligninolytic genes also occurred. The transcriptome-level repression of the CAZyme genes observed on the Avicel cultures was strongly supported by exoproteomics. Protease-encoding genes were generally not glucose repressed, indicating their likely dominant role in scavenging for nitrogen rather than carbon. The extent of CCR is surprising, given that D. squalens rarely experiences high free sugar concentrations in its woody environment, and it indicates that biotechnological use of D. squalens for modification of plant biomass would benefit from derepressed or constitutively CAZyme-expressing strains.IMPORTANCE White-rot fungi are critical to the carbon cycle because they can mineralize all wood components using enzymes that also have biotechnological potential. The occurrence of carbon catabolite repression (CCR) in white-rot fungi is poorly understood. Previously, CCR in wood-rotting fungi has only been demonstrated for a small number of genes. We demonstrated widespread glucose-mediated CCR of plant biomass utilization in the white-rot fungus Dichomitus squalens This indicates that the CCR mechanism has been largely retained even though wood-rotting fungi rarely experience commonly considered CCR conditions in their woody environment. The general lack of repression of genes encoding proteases along with the reduction in secreted CAZymes during CCR suggested that the retention of CCR may be connected with the need to conserve nitrogen use during growth on nitrogen-scarce wood. The widespread repression indicates that derepressed strains could be beneficial for enzyme production.
PXD014976	31586053	Arctigenin attenuates diabetic kidney disease through the activation of PP2A in podocytes. 	Arctigenin attenuates diabetic kidney disease through the activation of PP2A in podocytes	Arctigenin, Diabetic kidney disease, Drebrin-1, PP2A, actin cytoskeleton, podocytes	Arctigenin (ATG) is a major component of Fructus Arctii, a traditional herbal remedy that reduced proteinuria in diabetic patients. However, whether ATG specifically provides renoprotection in DKD is not known. Here we report that ATG administration is sufficient to attenuate proteinuria and podocyte injury in mouse models of diabetes. Transcriptomic analysis of diabetic mouse glomeruli showed that cell adhesion and inflammation are two key pathways affected by ATG treatment, and mass spectrometry analysis identified protein phosphatase 2 A (PP2A) as one of the top ATG-interacting proteins in renal cells. Enhanced PP2A activity by ATG reduces p65 NF-kappaB-mediated inflammatory response and high glucose-induced migration in cultured podocytes via interaction with Drebrin-1. Importantly, podocyte-specific Pp2a deletion in mice exacerbates DKD injury and abrogates the ATG-mediated renoprotection. Collectively, our results demonstrate a renoprotective mechanism of ATG via PP2A activation and establish PP2A as a potential target for DKD progression.
PXD015313	31586061	Engineering selective competitors for the discrimination of highly conserved protein-protein interaction modules. 	MS analysis of cellular targets of an engineered selective PSD-95 PDZ domain ligand	Engineered ligand/PDZ domains/Pull-down	Designing highly specific modulators of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is especially challenging in the context of multiple paralogs and conserved interaction surfaces. In this case, direct generation of selective and competitive inhibitors is hindered by high similarity within the evolutionary-related protein interfaces. We report here a strategy that uses a semi-rational approach to separate the modulator design into two functional parts. We first achieve specificity toward a region outside of the interface by using phage display selection coupled with molecular and cellular validation. Highly selective competition is then generated by appending the more degenerate interaction peptide to contact the target interface. We apply this approach to specifically bind a single PDZ domain within the postsynaptic protein PSD-95 over highly similar PDZ domains in PSD-93, SAP-97 and SAP-102. Our work provides a paralog-selective and domain specific inhibitor of PSD-95, and describes a method to efficiently target other conserved PPI modules.
PXD012374	31586073	The midbody interactome reveals unexpected roles for PP1 phosphatases in cytokinesis. 	Analysis of the midbody interactome reveals new roles for PP1 phosphatases in late cytokinesis	Cytokinesis, Maxquant, Obritrap, SILAC, interactome, midbody	The midbody is an organelle assembled at the intercellular bridge between the two daughter cells at the end of mitosis. It controls the final separation of the daughter cells and has been involved in cell fate, polarity, tissue organization, and cilium and lumen formation. Here, we report the characterization of the intricate midbody protein-protein interaction network (interactome), which identifies many previously unknown interactions and provides an extremely valuable resource for dissecting the multiple roles of the midbody. Initial analysis of this interactome revealed that PP1beta-MYPT1 phosphatase regulates microtubule dynamics in late cytokinesis and de-phosphorylates the kinesin component MKLP1/KIF23 of the centralspindlin complex. This de-phosphorylation antagonizes Aurora B kinase to modify the functions and interactions of centralspindlin in late cytokinesis. Our findings expand the repertoire of PP1 functions during mitosis and indicate that spatiotemporal changes in the distribution of kinases and counteracting phosphatases finely tune the activity of cytokinesis proteins.
PXD013315	31586277	Membrane proteomic analysis reveals the intestinal development is deteriorated by intrauterine growth restriction in piglets. 	Membrane proteomic analysis reveals the intestinal development is deteriorated by intra-uterine growth restriction in piglets	iTRAQ, intestine, intrauterine growth restriction, membrane proteome, neonatal piglets	The alterations of the intestinal proteome were observed in intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) piglets during early life by gel-based approaches. Nevertheless, how IUGR affects the intestinal membrane proteome during neonatal development remains unclear. Here, we applied the iTRAQ-based proteomics technology and biochemical analysis to investigate the impact of IUGR on the membrane proteome of the jejunal mucosa in the piglets. Three hundred sixty-one membrane proteins were screened by functional prediction. Among them, eight, five, and one differentially expressed membrane proteins were identified between IUGR and NBW piglets at day 0, day 7, and day 21 after birth, respectively. Differentially expressed membrane proteins (DEMPs) including F1SBL3, F1RRW8, F1S539, F1S2Z2, F1RIR2, F1RUF2 I3LP60, Q2EN79, and F1SIH8 were reduced while the relative abundance of I3L6A2, F1SCJ1, F1RI18, I3LRJ7, and F1RNN0 were increased in IUGR piglets than NBW piglets. From the aspects of function, F1RRW8, F1S539, F1S2Z2, and F1RIR2 are mainly associated with D2 dopamine receptor binding, transmembrane transport of small molecules, signal transduction, and translocation of GLUT4, respectively, and F1SIH8, I3LRJ7, and F1RNN0 are related to autophagy, metabolism of vitamins, and intracellular protein transport. Additionally, IUGR decreased the level of proteins (F1RRW8, Q2EN79, and F1RI18) that are involved in response to oxidative stress.
PXD013524	31591136	Enhanced carbonyl stress induces irreversible multimerization of CRMP2 in schizophrenia pathogenesis. 	AGE-modification sites of human CRMP2 in GLO1 -/- iPS cells	AGE, GLO1, enhanced carbonyl stress	Enhanced carbonyl stress underlies a subset of schizophrenia, but its causal effects remain elusive. Here, we elucidated the molecular mechanism underlying the effects of carbonyl stress in iPS cells in which the gene encoding zinc metalloenzyme glyoxalase I (GLO1), a crucial enzyme for the clearance of carbonyl stress, was disrupted. The iPS cells exhibited significant cellular and developmental deficits, and hyper-carbonylation of collapsing response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2). Structural and biochemical analyses revealed an array of multiple carbonylation sites in the functional motifs of CRMP2, particularly D-hook (for dimerization) and T-site (for tetramerization), which are critical for the activity of the CRMP2 tetramer. Interestingly, carbonylated CRMP2 was stacked in the multimer conformation by irreversible cross-linking, resulting in loss of its unique function to bundle microtubules. Thus, the present study revealed that the enhanced carbonyl stress stemmed from the genetic aberrations results in neurodevelopmental deficits through the formation of irreversible dysfunctional multimer of carbonylated CRMP2.
PXD013314	31591263	Absolute Quantification of Apolipoproteins Following Treatment with Omega-3 Carboxylic Acids and Fenofibrate Using a High Precision Stable Isotope-labeled Recombinant Protein Fragments Based SRM Assay. 	Absolute Quantification of Apolipoproteins Following Treatment with Omega-3 Carboxylic Acids and Fenofibrate Using a High Precision Stable Isotope-Labeled Recombinant Protein Fragments Based SRM Assay	apolipoprotein, fenofibrate, hypertriglyceridemia, omega-3	Stable isotope-labeled standard (SIS) peptides are used as internal standards in targeted proteomics to provide robust protein quantification, which is required in clinical settings. However, SIS peptides are typically added post trypsin digestion and, as the digestion efficiency can vary significantly between peptides within a protein, the accuracy and precision of the assay may be compromised. These drawbacks can be remedied by a new class of internal standards introduced by the Human Protein Atlas project, which are based on SIS recombinant protein fragments called SIS PrESTs. SIS PrESTs are added initially to the sample and SIS peptides are released on trypsin digestion. The SIS PrEST technology is promising for absolute quantification of protein biomarkers but has not previously been evaluated in a clinical setting. An automated and scalable solid phase extraction workflow for desalting and enrichment of plasma digests was established enabling simultaneous preparation of up to 96 samples. Robust high-precision quantification of 13 apolipoproteins was achieved using a novel multiplex SIS PrEST-based LC-SRM/MS Tier 2 assay in non-depleted human plasma. The assay exhibited inter-day coefficients of variation between 1.5% and 14.5% (median = 3.5%) and was subsequently used to investigate the effects of omega-3 carboxylic acids (OM3-CA) and fenofibrate on these 13 apolipoproteins in human plasma samples from a randomized placebo-controlled trial, EFFECT I (NCT02354976). No significant changes were observed in the OM3-CA arm, whereas treatment with fenofibrate significantly increased apoAII and reduced apoB, apoCI, apoE and apoCIV levels. The reduction in apoCIV following fenofibrate treatment is a novel finding. The study demonstrates that SIS PrESTs can facilitate the generation of robust multiplexed biomarker Tier 2 assays for absolute quantification of proteins in clinical studies.
PXD015061	31591397	Evolution and regulation of nitrogen flux through compartmentalized metabolic networks in a marine diatom. 	Proteome response of the diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum to short term shifts in nitrogen source and availability.	ammonium, diatom, diel, iron, nitrate, nitrite, nitrogen	Diatoms outcompete other phytoplankton for nitrate, yet little is known about the mechanisms underpinning this ability. Genomes and genome-enabled studies have shown that diatoms possess unique features of nitrogen metabolism however, the implications for nutrient utilization and growth are poorly understood. Using a combination of transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, fluxomics, and flux balance analysis to examine short-term shifts in nitrogen utilization in the model pennate diatom in Phaeodactylum tricornutum, we obtained a systems-level understanding of assimilation and intracellular distribution of nitrogen. Chloroplasts and mitochondria are energetically integrated at the critical intersection of carbon and nitrogen metabolism in diatoms. Pathways involved in this integration are organelle-localized GS-GOGAT cycles, aspartate and alanine systems for amino moiety exchange, and a split-organelle arginine biosynthesis pathway that clarifies the role of the diatom urea cycle. This unique configuration allows diatoms to efficiently adjust to changing nitrogen status, conferring an ecological advantage over other phytoplankton taxa.
PXD013129	31591564	A small molecule interacts with VDAC2 to block mouse BAK-driven apoptosis. 	VDAC2 ligands selectively and potently block BAK-mediated apoptosis to allow long-term clonogenic cell survival	Compound target ID	Activating the intrinsic apoptosis pathway with small molecules is now a clinically validated approach to cancer therapy. In contrast, blocking apoptosis to prevent the death of healthy cells in disease settings has not been achieved. Caspases have been favored, but they act too late in apoptosis to provide long-term protection. The critical step in committing a cell to death is activation of BAK or BAX, pro-death BCL-2 proteins mediating mitochondrial damage. Apoptosis cannot proceed in their absence. Here we show that WEHI-9625, a novel tricyclic sulfone small molecule, binds to VDAC2 and promotes its ability to inhibit apoptosis driven by mouse BAK. In contrast to caspase inhibitors, WEHI-9625 blocks apoptosis before mitochondrial damage, preserving cellular function and long-term clonogenic potential. Our findings expand on the key role of VDAC2 in regulating apoptosis and demonstrate that blocking apoptosis at an early stage is both advantageous and pharmacologically tractable.
PXD012936	31592345	Tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomic analysis of lycorine treatment in highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 virus infection. 	TMT-based quantitative Proteomics Analysis of lycorine treatment in highly pathogenic avian inuenza H5N1 virus infection	Highly pathogenic avian inuenza virus, Lycorine, Nup93	Highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza viruses (HPAIV) cause rapid systemic illness and death in susceptible animals, leading to a disease with high morbidity and mortality rates. Although vaccines and drugs are the best solution to prevent this threat, a more effective treatment for H5 strains of influenza has yet to be developed. Therefore, the development of therapeutics/drugs that combat H5N1 influenza virus infection is becoming increasingly important. Lycorine, the major component of Amaryllidaceae alkaloids, exhibits better protective effects against A/CK/GD/178/04 (H5N1) (GD178) viruses than the commercial neuraminidase (NA) inhibitor oseltamivir in our prior study. Lycorine demonstrates outstanding antiviral activity because of its inhibitory activity against the export of viral ribonucleoprotein complexes (vRNPs) from the nucleus. However, how lycorine affects the proteome of AIV infected cells is unknown. Therefore, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis to identify changes in protein expression in AIV-infected Madin-Darby Canine Kidney cells treated with lycorine. Three groups were designed: mock infection group (M), virus infection group (V), and virus infection and lycorine-treated after virus infection group (L). The multiplexed tandem mass tag (TMT) approach was employed to analyze protein level in this study. In total, 5,786 proteins were identified from the three groups of cells by using TMT proteomic analysis. In the V/M group, 1,101 proteins were identified, of which 340 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were determined during HPAIV infection; among the 1,059 proteins identified from the lycorine-treated group, 258 proteins presented significant change. Here, 71 proteins showed significant upregulation or downregulation of expression in the virus-infected/mock and virus-infected/lycorine-treated comparisons, and the proteins in each fraction were functionally classified further. Interestingly, lycorine treatment decreased the levels of the nuclear pore complex protein 93 (Nup93, E2RSV7), which is associated with nuclear-cytoplasmic transport. In addition, Western blot experiments confirmed that the expression of Nup93 was significantly downregulated in lycorine treatment but induced after viral infection. Our results may provide new insights into how lycorine may trap vRNPs in the nucleus and suggest new potential therapeutic targets for influenza virus.
PXD015080	31593346	A Click-Chemistry-Based Enrichable Crosslinker for Structural and Protein Interaction Analysis by Mass Spectrometry. 	Development of an sulfoxide-based, CuAAC-enrichable cross-linker	CuAAC, XL-MS, sulfoxide	Mass spectrometry is the method of choice for the characterisation of proteomes. Most proteins operate in protein complexes, in which their close association modulates their function. However, with standard MS analysis, information on protein-protein interactions is lost and no structural information is retained. To gain structural and interactome data, new crosslinking reagents are needed that freeze inter- and intramolecular interactions. Herein, the development of a new reagent, which has several features that enable highly sensitive crosslinking MS, is reported. The reagent enables enrichment of crosslinked peptides from the majority of background peptides to facilitate efficient detection of low-abundant crosslinked peptides. Due to the special cleavable properties, the reagent can be used for MS(2) and potentially for MS(3) experiments. Thus, the new crosslinking reagent, in combination with high-end MS, should enable sensitive analysis of interactomes, which will help researchers to obtain important insights into cellular states in health and diseases.
PXD013406	31594847	A novel chlorophyll protein complex in the repair cycle of photosystem II. 	Photosystem II assembly No-reaction center (NRC) complex	Photosystem II, assembly, membrane protein complex	In oxygenic photosynthetic organisms, photosystem II (PSII) is a unique membrane protein complex that catalyzes light-driven oxidation of water. PSII undergoes frequent damage due to its demanding photochemistry. It must undergo a repair and reassembly process following photodamage, many facets of which remain unknown. We have discovered a PSII subcomplex that lacks 5 key PSII core reaction center polypeptides: D1, D2, PsbE, PsbF, and PsbI. This pigment-protein complex does contain the PSII core antenna proteins CP47 and CP43, as well as most of their associated low molecular mass subunits, and the assembly factor Psb27. Immunoblotting, mass spectrometry, and ultrafast spectroscopic results support the absence of a functional reaction center in this complex, which we call the "no reaction center" complex (NRC). Analytical ultracentrifugation and clear native PAGE analysis show that NRC is a stable pigment-protein complex and not a mixture of free CP47 and CP43 proteins. NRC appears in higher abundance in cells exposed to high light and impaired protein synthesis, and genetic deletion of PsbO on the PSII luminal side results in an increased NRC population, indicative that NRC forms in response to photodamage as part of the PSII repair process. Our finding challenges the current model of the PSII repair cycle and implies an alternative PSII repair strategy. Formation of this complex may maximize PSII repair economy by preserving intact PSII core antennas in a single complex available for PSII reassembly, minimizing the risk of randomly diluting multiple recycling components in the thylakoid membrane following a photodamage event.
PXD013944	31595051	Genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic insights into the symbiosis of deep-sea tubeworm holobionts. 	: Integration of genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic insights into evolved dependence of deep-sea tubeworm holobiont	chemosynthesis, deep sea, holobiont, symbiosis	Deep-sea hydrothermal vents and methane seeps are often densely populated by animals that host chemosynthetic symbiotic bacteria, but the molecular mechanisms of such host-symbiont relationship remain largely unclear. We characterized the symbiont genome of the seep-living siboglinid Paraescarpia echinospica and compared seven siboglinid-symbiont genomes. Our comparative analyses indicate that seep-living siboglinid endosymbionts have more virulence traits for establishing infections and modulating host-bacterium interaction than the vent-dwelling species, and have a high potential to resist environmental hazards. Metatranscriptome and metaproteome analyses of the Paraescarpia holobiont reveal that the symbiont is highly versatile in its energy use and efficient in carbon fixation. There is close cooperation within the holobiont in production and supply of nutrients, and the symbiont may be able to obtain nutrients from host cells using virulence factors. Moreover, the symbiont is speculated to have evolved strategies to mediate host protective immunity, resulting in weak expression of host innate immunity genes in the trophosome. Overall, our results reveal the interdependence of the tubeworm holobiont through mutual nutrient supply, a pathogen-type regulatory mechanism, and host-symbiont cooperation in energy utilization and nutrient production, which is a key adaptation allowing the tubeworm to thrive in deep-sea chemosynthetic environments.
PXD014672	31597091	Identification of a Paracrine Signaling Mechanism Linking CD34(high) Progenitors to the Regulation of Visceral Fat Expansion and Remodeling. 	Paracrine Signaling in Visceral Fat	paracrine signaling, visceral fat	Accumulation of visceral (VIS) is a predictor of metabolic disorders and insulin resistance. This is due in part to the limited capacity of VIS fat to buffer lipids allowing them to deposit in insulin-sensitive tissues. Mechanisms underlying selective hypertrophic growth and tissue remodeling properties of VIS fat are not well understood. We identified subsets of adipose progenitors (APs) unique to VIS fat with differential Cd34 expression and adipogenic capacity. VIS low (Cd34 low) APs are adipogenic, whereas VIS high (Cd34 high) APs are not. Furthermore, VIS high APs inhibit adipogenic differentiation of SUB and VIS low APs in vitro through the secretion of soluble inhibitory factor(s). The number of VIS high APs increased with adipose tissue expansion, and their abundance in vivo caused hypertrophic growth, fibrosis, inflammation, and metabolic dysfunction. This study unveils the presence of APs unique to VIS fat involved in the paracrine regulation of adipogenesis and tissue remodeling.
PXD015134	31597105	The SUMO Isopeptidase SENP6 Functions as a Rheostat of Chromatin Residency in Genome Maintenance and Chromosome Dynamics. 	Identification of SENP6 target proteins by endogenous SUMO2/3 IP-MS	SENP, SUMO	Signaling by the ubiquitin-related SUMO pathway relies on coordinated conjugation and deconjugation events. SUMO-specific deconjugating enzymes counterbalance SUMOylation, but comprehensive insight into their substrate specificity and regulation is missing. By characterizing SENP6, we define an N-terminal multi-SIM domain as a critical determinant in targeting SENP6 to SUMO chains. Proteomic profiling reveals a network of SENP6 functions at the crossroads of chromatin organization and DNA damage response (DDR). SENP6 acts as a SUMO eraser at telomeric and centromeric chromatin domains and determines the SUMOylation status and chromatin association of the cohesin complex. Importantly, SENP6 is part of the hPSO4/PRP19 complex that drives ATR-Chk1 activation. SENP6 deficiency impairs chromatin association of the ATR cofactor ATRIP, thereby compromising the activation of Chk1 signaling in response to aphidicolin-induced replicative stress and sensitizing cells to DNA damage. We propose a general role of SENP6 in orchestrating chromatin dynamics and genome stability networks by balancing chromatin residency of protein complexes.
PXD014735	31597577	Quantitative proteomic analysis and functional characterization of Acanthamoeba castellanii exosome-like vesicles. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of Aanthamoeba exosome-like vesicles	Acanthamoeba, exosome	BACKGROUND: Pathogenic protozoans use extracellular vesicles (EVs) for intercellular communication and host manipulation. Acanthamoeba castellanii is a free-living protozoan that may cause severe keratitis and fatal granulomatous encephalitis. Although several secreted molecules have been shown to play crucial roles in the pathogenesis of Acanthamoeba, the functions and components of parasite-derived EVs are far from understood. METHODS: Purified EVs from A. castellanii were confirmed by electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The functional roles of parasite-derived EVs in the cytotoxicity to and immune response of host cells were examined. The protein composition in EVs from A. castellanii was identified and quantified by LC-MS/MS analysis. RESULTS: EVs from A. castellanii fused with rat glioma C6 cells. The parasite-derived EVs induced an immune response from human THP-1 cells and a cytotoxic effect in C6 cells. Quantitative proteomic analysis identified a total of 130 proteins in EVs. Among the identified proteins, hydrolases (50.2%) and oxidoreductases (31.7%) were the largest protein families in EVs. Furthermore, aminopeptidase activities were confirmed in EVs from A. castellanii. CONCLUSIONS: The proteomic profiling and functional characterization of EVs from A. castellanii provide an in-depth understanding of the molecules packaged into EVs and their potential mechanisms mediating the pathogenesis of this parasite.
PXD014120	31599156	Proteomic and Metabolomic Analysis of Azospirillum brasilensentrC Mutant under High and Low Nitrogen Conditions. 	Proteomic and metabolomic analysis of Azospirillum brasilense ntrC mutant under high and low nitrogen conditions	Azospirillum brasilense. NtrC. Nitrogen metabolism. Proteomic. Metabolomic. Setaria viridis	Azospirillum brasilense is a diazotrophic microorganism capable of associating with roots of important grasses and cereals, promoting plant growth and increasing crop yields. Nitrogen levels and the Ntr regulatory system control the nitrogen metabolism in A. brasilense. This system comprises the nitrogen regulatory proteins GlnD, which is capable of adding uridylyl groups to the PII proteins, GlnB (PII-1) and GlnZ (PII-2), under limiting nitrogen levels. Under such conditions, the histidine kinase NtrB (nitrogen regulatory protein B) cannot interact with GlnB and phosphorylate NtrC (nitrogen regulatory protein C). The phosphorylated form of NtrC acts as a transcriptional activator of genes involved in the metabolism of alternative nitrogen sources. Considering the key role of NtrC in nitrogen metabolism in A. brasilense, in this work we evaluated the proteomic and metabolomic profiles of the wild-type FP2 strain and its mutant ntrC grown under high and low nitrogen. Analysis of the integrated data identifies novel NtrC targets, including proteins involved in the response against oxidative stress (i.e., glutathione S-transferase and hydroperoxide resistance protein), underlining the importance of NtrC to bacterial survival under oxidative stress conditions.
PXD013581	31599158	Mass Spectrometry-Compatible Subcellular Fractionation for Proteomics. 	Mass Spectrometry-compatible Subcellular Fractionation	Subcellular fractionation	We found that nuclear envelopes stabilize against surfactants in the presence of ethylene glycol (EG). We, therefore, developed a novel subcellular fractionation approach for proteomics using RIPA buffer containing EG and phase transfer surfactants. This method involves separating the cells into the cytoplasm, organelles, and nucleus, including intermediate filaments without ultracentrifugation. These fractions are directly applicable to sample preparation for shotgun proteomics as they have no mass spectrometry (MS)-incompatible chemicals, whereas those separated by traditional fractionation protocols require desalting. This protocol is successfully applied to subcellular fractionation with only 3.5 x 10(5) cells. Here, it was combined with phosphoproteomics and proteomics to identify phosphorylation sites regulating protein subcellular localization. In total, 59 phosphorylation sites on 42 phosphopeptides and 32 proteins showing different enrichment patterns between phosphoproteomics and the corresponding proteomics were identified, which are potential candidate sites to regulate the protein subcellular localization, including serine 706 on CD44 and serine 22 on lamin A/C.
PXD017968	31599373	Novel functional proteins coded by the human genome discovered in metastases of melanoma patients. 	Novel Functional Proteins Coded by the Human Genome Discovered in Metastases of Melanoma Patients	Melanoma, Metastases, Missing proteins, Novel	In the advanced stages, malignant melanoma (MM) has a very poor prognosis. Due to tremendous efforts in cancer research over the last 10 years, and the introduction of novel therapies such as targeted therapies and immunomodulators, the rather dark horizon of the median survival has dramatically changed from under 1 year to several years. With the advent of proteomics, deep-mining studies can reach low-abundant expression levels. The complexity of the proteome, however, still surpasses the dynamic range capabilities of current analytical techniques. Consequently, many predicted protein products with potential biological functions have not yet been verified in experimental proteomic data. This category of 'missing proteins' (MP) is comprised of all proteins that have been predicted but are currently unverified. As part of the initiative launched in 2016 in the USA, the European Cancer Moonshot Center has performed numerous deep proteomics analyses on samples from MM patients. In this study, nine MPs were clearly identified by mass spectrometry in MM metastases. Some MPs significantly correlated with proteins that possess identical PFAM structural domains; and other MPs were significantly associated with cancer-related proteins. This is the first study to our knowledge, where unknown and novel proteins have been annotated in metastatic melanoma tumour tissue.
PXD042122	31599600	Mining the Proteome Associated with Rheumatic and Autoimmune Diseases. 	proteomic profiling of human meniscus	meniscus, osteoarthritis	A steady increase in the incidence of osteoarthritis and other rheumatic diseases has been observed in recent decades, including autoimmune conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, spondyloarthropathies, systemic lupus erythematosus, systemic sclerosis, and Sjoegren's syndrome. Rheumatic and autoimmune diseases (RADs) are characterized by the inflammation of joints, muscles, or other connective tissues. In addition to often experiencing debilitating mobility and pain, RAD patients are also at a higher risk of suffering comorbidities such as cardiovascular or infectious events. Given the socioeconomic impact of RADs, broad research efforts have been dedicated to these diseases worldwide. In the present work, we applied literature mining platforms to identify "popular" proteins closely related to RADs. The platform is based on publicly available literature. The results not only will enable the systematic prioritization of candidates to perform targeted proteomics studies but also may lead to a greater insight into the key pathogenic processes of these disorders.
PXD011524	31601107	Proteomic and N-Terminomic TAILS Analyses of Human Alveolar Bone Proteins: Improved Protein Extraction Methodology and LysargiNase Digestion Strategies Increase Proteome Coverage and Missing Protein Identification. 	Proteomic analysis of human alveolar bone	TAILS, bone, missing protein, shotgun	With 2129 proteins still classified by the Human Proteome Organisation Human Proteome Project (HPP) as "missing" without compelling evidence of protein existence (PE) in humans, we hypothesized that in-depth proteomic characterization of tissues that are technically challenging to access and extract would yield evidence for tissue-specific missing proteins. Paradoxically, although the skeleton is the most massive tissue system in humans, as one of the poorest characterized by proteomics, bone falls under the HPP umbrella term as a "rare tissue". Therefore, we aimed to optimize mineralized tissue protein extraction methodology and workflows for proteomic and data analyses of small quantities of healthy young adult human alveolar bone. Osteoid was solubilized by GuHCl extraction, with hydroxyapatite-bound proteins then released by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid demineralization. A subsequent GuHCl solubilization extraction was followed by solid-phase digestion of the remaining insoluble cross-linked protein using trypsin and then 6 M urea dissolution incorporating LysC digestion. Bone extracts were digested in parallel using trypsin, LysargiNase, AspN, or GluC prior to liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis. Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates was used to purify semitryptic peptides, identifying natural and proteolytic-cleaved neo N-termini of bone proteins. Our strategy enabled complete solubilization of the organic bone matrix leading to extensive categorization of bone proteins in different bone matrix extracts, and hence matrix compartments, for the first time. Moreover, this led to the high confidence identification of pannexin-3, a "missing protein", found only in the insoluble collagenous matrix and revealed for the first time by trypsin solid-phase digestion. We also found a singleton proteotypic peptide of another missing protein, meiosis inhibitor protein 1. We also identified 17 proteins classified in neXtprot as PE1 based on evidence other than from MS, termed non-MS PE1 proteins, including >=9-mer proteotypic peptides of four proteins.
PXD015778	31601764	Architecture of human Rag GTPase heterodimers and their complex with mTORC1. 	Architecture of human Rag GTPase heterodimers and their complex with mTORC1	HDX-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), RagA, RagC, mTORC1	The Rag guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) recruit the master kinase mTORC1 to lysosomes to regulate cell growth and proliferation in response to amino acid availability. The nucleotide state of Rag heterodimers is critical for their association with mTORC1. Our cryo-electron microscopy structure of RagA/RagC in complex with mTORC1 shows the details of RagA/RagC binding to the RAPTOR subunit of mTORC1 and explains why only the RagAGTP/RagCGDP nucleotide state binds mTORC1. Previous kinetic studies suggested that GTP binding to one Rag locks the heterodimer to prevent GTP binding to the other. Our crystal structures and dynamics of RagA/RagC show the mechanism for this locking and explain how oncogenic hotspot mutations disrupt this process. In contrast to allosteric activation by RHEB, Rag heterodimer binding does not change mTORC1 conformation and activates mTORC1 by targeting it to lysosomes.
PXD015548	31602465	Physical and functional interaction between SET1/COMPASS complex component CFP-1 and a Sin3S HDAC complex in C. elegans. 	Physical and functional interaction between SET1/COMPASS complex component CFP-1 and a Sin3S HDAC complex in C. elegans	C. elegans, Chromatin, Interactomics, SET1/COMPASS complex	The CFP1 CXXC zinc finger protein targets the SET1/COMPASS complex to non-methylated CpG rich promoters to implement tri-methylation of histone H3 Lys4 (H3K4me3). Although H3K4me3 is widely associated with gene expression, the effects of CFP1 loss vary, suggesting additional chromatin factors contribute to context dependent effects. Using a proteomics approach, we identified CFP1 associated proteins and an unexpected direct link between Caenorhabditis elegans CFP-1 and an Rpd3/Sin3 small (SIN3S) histone deacetylase complex. Supporting a functional connection, we find that mutants of COMPASS and SIN3 complex components genetically interact and have similar phenotypic defects including misregulation of common genes. CFP-1 directly binds SIN-3 through a region including the conserved PAH1 domain and recruits SIN-3 and the HDA-1/HDAC subunit to H3K4me3 enriched promoters. Our results reveal a novel role for CFP-1 in mediating interaction between SET1/COMPASS and a Sin3S HDAC complex at promoters.
PXD007574	31604844	Meningeal gammadelta T cell-derived IL-17 controls synaptic plasticity and short-term memory. 	Meningeal gammadelta T cells producing IL-17 control synaptic plasticity and cognitive behaviour	IL-17, SWATH, gammadelta T cells	The notion of "immune privilege" of the brain has been revised to accommodate its infiltration, at steady state, by immune cells that participate in normal neurophysiology. However, the immune mechanisms that regulate learning and memory remain poorly understood. Here, we show that noninflammatory interleukin-17 (IL-17) derived from a previously unknown fetal-derived meningeal-resident gammadelta T cell subset promotes cognition. When tested in classical spatial learning paradigms, mice lacking gammadelta T cells or IL-17 displayed deficient short-term memory while retaining long-term memory. The plasticity of glutamatergic synapses was reduced in the absence of IL-17, resulting in impaired long-term potentiation in the hippocampus. Conversely, IL-17 enhanced glial cell production of brain-derived neurotropic factor, whose exogenous provision rescued the synaptic and behavioral phenotypes of IL-17-deficient animals. Together, our work provides previously unknown clues on the mechanisms that regulate short-term versus long-term memory and on the evolutionary and functional link between the immune and nervous systems.
PXD014392	31610113	Improved Nanoflow RPLC-CZE-MS/MS System with High Peak Capacity and Sensitivity for Nanogram Bottom-up Proteomics. 	An improved nanoflow RPLC-CZE-MS/MS system with high peak capacity and sensitivity for nanogram bottom-up proteomics	bottom-up proteomics, human cells, nanoRPLC-CZE-MS/MS, nanograms	Novel mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic tools with extremely high sensitivity and high peak capacity are required for comprehensive characterization of protein molecules in mass-limited samples. We reported a nanoRPLC-CZE-MS/MS system for deep bottom-up proteomics of low micrograms of human cell samples in previous work. In this work, we improved the sensitivity of the nanoRPLC-CZE-MS/MS system drastically via employing bovine serum albumin (BSA)-treated sample vials, improving the nanoRPLC fraction collection procedure, and using a short capillary for fast CZE separation. The improved nanoRPLC-CZE produced a peak capacity of 8500 for peptide separation. The improved system identified 6500 proteins from a MCF7 proteome digest starting with only 500 ng of peptides using a Q-Exactive HF mass spectrometer. The system produced a comparable number of protein identifications (IDs) to our previous system and the two-dimensional (2D) nanoRPLC-MS/MS system developed by Mann's group with 10-fold and 4-fold less sample consumption, respectively. We coupled the single-spot solid phase sample preparation (SP3) method to the improved nanoRPLC-CZE-MS/MS for bottom-up proteomics of 5000 HEK293T cells, resulting in 3689 protein IDs with the consumption of a peptide amount that corresponded to only roughly 1000 cells.
PXD015725	31611391	Wnt activator FOXB2 drives the neuroendocrine differentiation of prostate cancer. 	Wnt activator FOXB2 drives the neuroendocrine differentiation of prostate cancer	FOXB2, Wnt, cancer, differentiation	The Wnt signaling pathway is of paramount importance for development and disease. However, the tissue-specific regulation of Wnt pathway activity remains incompletely understood. Here we identify FOXB2, an uncharacterized forkhead box family transcription factor, as a potent activator of Wnt signaling in normal and cancer cells. Mechanistically, FOXB2 induces multiple Wnt ligands, including WNT7B, which increases TCF/LEF-dependent transcription without activating Wnt coreceptor LRP6 or beta-catenin. Proximity ligation and functional complementation assays identified several transcription regulators, including YY1, JUN, and DDX5, as cofactors required for FOXB2-dependent pathway activation. Although FOXB2 expression is limited in adults, it is induced in select cancers, particularly advanced prostate cancer. RNA-seq data analysis suggests that FOXB2/WNT7B expression in prostate cancer is associated with a transcriptional program that favors neuronal differentiation and decreases recurrence-free survival. Consistently, FOXB2 controls Wnt signaling and neuroendocrine differentiation of prostate cancer cell lines. Our results suggest that FOXB2 is a tissue-specific Wnt activator that promotes the malignant transformation of prostate cancer.
PXD013611	31611688	PRMT5 methylome profiling uncovers a direct link to splicing regulation in acute myeloid leukemia. 	PRMT5 methylome profiling uncovers a direct link to splicing regulation in human acute myeloid leukemia	PRMT5, PTM, TMT, arginine methylation	Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) has emerged as a promising cancer drug target, and three PRMT5 inhibitors are currently in clinical trials for multiple malignancies. In this study, we investigated the role of PRMT5 in human acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Using an enzymatic dead version of PRMT5 and a PRMT5-specific inhibitor, we demonstrated the requirement of the catalytic activity of PRMT5 for the survival of AML cells. We then identified PRMT5 substrates using multiplexed quantitative proteomics and investigated their role in the survival of AML cells. We found that the function of the splicing regulator SRSF1 relies on its methylation by PRMT5 and that loss of PRMT5 leads to changes in alternative splicing of multiple essential genes. Our study proposes a mechanism for the requirement of PRMT5 for leukemia cell survival and provides potential biomarkers for the treatment response to PRMT5 inhibitors.
PXD012308	31611696	Robust prediction of HLA class II epitopes by deep motif deconvolution of immunopeptidomes. 	Deep motif deconvolution of HLA-II peptidomes	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Immunopeptidomics, Ligand predictions, Mass spectrome, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, machine learning	Predictions of epitopes presented by class II human leukocyte antigen molecules (HLA-II) have limited accuracy, restricting vaccine and therapy design. Here we combined unbiased mass spectrometry with a motif deconvolution algorithm to profile and analyze a total of 99,265 unique peptides eluted from HLA-II molecules. We then trained an epitope prediction algorithm with these data and improved prediction of pathogen and tumor-associated class II neoepitopes.
PXD010085	31612616	miR-4510 blocks hepatocellular carcinoma development through RAF1 targeting and RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signalling inactivation. 	Proteomic analysis of genes regulated by miR-4510 in hepatocellular carcinoma	Hepatocellular carcinoma, Liver, cancer, label-free quantitative proteome analysis, miR-4510	BACKGROUND: Therapeutic outcomes using the multikinase inhibitors, sorafenib and regorafenib, remain unsatisfactory for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Thus, new drug modalities are needed. We recently reported the remarkable capacity of miR-4510 to impede the growth of HCC and hepatoblastoma through Glypican-3 (GPC3) targeting and Wnt pathway inactivation. METHODS: To identify new targets of miR-4510, we used a label-free proteomic approach and reported down-regulation of RAF proto-oncogene serine/threonine-protein kinase (RAF1) by miR-4510. Because the tumourigenic role of RAF1 in HCC is controversial, we further studied RAF1:miR-4510 interactions using cellular, molecular as well as functional approaches and a chicken chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) xenograft model. RESULTS: We found an increase in RAF1 protein in 59.3% of HCC patients and a specific up-regulation of its transcript in proliferative tumours. We showed that miR-4510 inactivates the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway and reduces the expression of downstream targets (ie c-Fos proto-oncogene [FOS]) through RAF1 direct targeting. At a cellular level, miR-4510 inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration and induced senescence in part by lowering RAF1 messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein expression. Finally, we confirmed the pro-tumoural function of RAF1 protein in HCC cells and its ability to sustain HCC tumour progression in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: In this work, we confirm that RAF1 acts as an oncogene in HCC and further demonstrate that miR-4510 acts as a strong tumour suppressor in the liver by targeting many proto-oncogenes, including GPC3 and RAF1, and subsequently controlling key biological and signalling pathways among which Wnt and RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signals.
PXD014996	31612718	Proteomic Investigations of Transcription Factors Critical in Geniposide-Mediated Suppression of Alcoholic Steatosis and in Overdose-Induced Hepatotoxicity on Liver in Rats. 	Proteomic investigations of transcription factors critical in geniposide-mediated suppression of alcoholic steatosis and in overdose induced hepatotoxicity on liver	Transcription factors critical analysis	Alcoholic steatosis is one of the most prevalent forms of liver disease, and appropriate insight and application of anti-steatosis drugs must be considered. Geniposide, the major active constituent of the Gardenia jasminoides (Ellis) fruit, has been commonly used as a traditional herbal medicine for the treatment of liver diseases. However, its hepatoprotective effect on alcoholic steatosis has not been reported. Moreover, geniposide overdose-induced hepatotoxicity was demonstrated. Hence, its therapeutic effects and overdose-induced hepatotoxicity in rat models along with corresponding targets, especially the targets of transcription factors (TFs), were systematically investigated in this study by using a concatenated tandem array of consensus TF response elements. The results indicate that geniposide can attenuate alcoholic steatosis and liver injury by enhancing the transcriptional activities of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha and hepatocyte nuclear factors 1alpha and 4alpha, while geniposide overdose perturbs other TFs. In addition, therapeutic doses and overdoses of geniposide have differentiated target TFs. This study is the first to provide a systematic insight into the difference of critical transcription factors between the actions of therapeutic doses and overdoses of geniposide, as well as much-needed attention to the important topic of alcoholic liver disease therapy.
PXD015850	31614365	Human and Nonhuman Primate Lineage-Specific Footprints in the Salivary Proteome. 	Human and Nonhuman Primate Lineage-Specific Footprints in the Salivary Proteome	Primates, Saliva	Proteins in saliva are needed for preprocessing food in the mouth, maintenance of tooth mineralization, and protection from microbial pathogens. Novel insights into human lineage-specific functions of salivary proteins and clues to their involvement in human disease can be gained through evolutionary studies, as recently shown for salivary amylase AMY1 and salivary agglutinin DMBT1/gp340. However, the entirety of proteins in saliva, the salivary proteome, has not yet been investigated from an evolutionary perspective. Here, we compared the proteomes of human saliva and the saliva of our closest extant evolutionary relatives, chimpanzees and gorillas, using macaques as an outgroup, with the aim to uncover features in saliva protein composition that are unique to each species. We found that humans produce a waterier saliva, containing less than half total protein than great apes and Old World monkeys. For all major salivary proteins in humans, we could identify counterparts in chimpanzee and gorilla saliva. However, we discovered unique protein profiles in saliva of humans that were distinct from those of nonhuman primates. These findings open up the possibility that dietary differences and pathogenic pressures may have shaped a distinct salivary proteome in the human lineage.
PXD014739	31615119	Different Modes of Action of Genetic and Chemical Downregulation of Histone Deacetylases with Respect to Plant Development and Histone Modifications. 	Proteomic profiling of histone acetylation pattern in Arabidopsis	epigenetics, histone, histone deacetylase inhibitor, post-translational modifications	A high degree of developmental plasticity enables plants to adapt to continuous, often unfavorable and unpredictable changes in their environment. At the molecular level, adaptive advantages for plants are primarily provided by epigenetic machinery including DNA methylation, histone modifications, and the activity of noncoding RNA molecules. Using a mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach, we examined the levels of acetylated histone peptide forms in Arabidopsis plants with a loss of function of histone deacetylase 6 (HDA6), and in plants germinated in the presence of HDA inhibitors trichostatin A (TSA) and sodium butyrate (NaB). Our analyses revealed particular lysine sites at histone sequences targeted by the HDA6 enzyme, and by TSA- and NaB-sensitive HDAs. Compared with plants exposed to drugs, more dramatic changes in the overall profiles of histone post-translational modifications were identified in hda6 mutants. However, loss of HDA6 was not sufficient by itself to induce hyperacetylation to the maximum degree, implying complementary activities of other HDAs. In contrast to hda6 mutants that did not exhibit any obvious phenotypic defects, the phenotypes of seedlings exposed to HDA inhibitors were markedly affected, showing that the effect of these drugs on early plant development is not limited to the modulation of histone acetylation levels.
PXD013401	31615847	Depletion of the FtsH1/3 Proteolytic Complex Suppresses the Nutrient Stress Response in the Cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp strain PCC 6803. 	Functions of the FtsH1/3 complex in the nutrient stress response of Synechocystis	FtsH, Synechocystis, nutrient stress, transcription factors	The membrane-embedded FtsH proteases found in bacteria, chloroplasts, and mitochondria are involved in diverse cellular processes including protein quality control and regulation. The genome of the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp PCC 6803 encodes four FtsH homologs designated FtsH1 to FtsH4. The FtsH3 homolog is present in two hetero-oligomeric complexes: FtsH2/3, which is responsible for photosystem II quality control, and the essential FtsH1/3 complex, which helps maintain Fe homeostasis by regulating the level of the transcription factor Fur. To gain a more comprehensive insight into the physiological roles of FtsH hetero-complexes, we performed genome-wide expression profiling and global proteomic analyses of Synechocystis mutants conditionally depleted of FtsH3 or FtsH1 grown under various nutrient conditions. We show that the lack of FtsH1/3 leads to a drastic reduction in the transcriptional response to nutrient stress of not only Fur but also the Pho, NdhR, and NtcA regulons. In addition, this effect is accompanied by the accumulation of the respective transcription factors. Thus, the FtsH1/3 complex is of critical importance for acclimation to iron, phosphate, carbon, and nitrogen starvation in Synechocystis.plantcell;31/12/2912/FX1F1fx1.
PXD014562	31615849	The Role of Phosphorylation Dynamics of CURVATURE THYLAKOID 1B in Plant Thylakoid Membranes. 	Light-dependent dynamics of phosphorylation of the thylakoid structural protein CURT1B	CURT1, LHCII, Thylakoids, grana margins	Thylakoid membranes in land plant chloroplasts are organized into appressed and nonappressed membranes, which contribute to the control of energy distribution between the two photosystems (PSI and PSII) from the associated light-harvesting complexes (LHCs). Under fluctuating light conditions, fast reversible phosphorylation of the N-terminal thylakoid protein domains and changes in electrostatic forces induce modifications in thylakoid organization. To gain insight into the role and dynamics of thylakoid protein phosphorylation, we used targeted proteomics to quantify amounts of the structural proteins CURVATURE THYLAKOID1 (CURT1), including the levels of CURT1B N terminus phosphorylation and acetylation, after short-term fluctuating light treatments of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The CURT1B protein was localized to a specific curvature domain separated from the margin domain, and specifically depleted of chlorophyll-binding protein complexes. The acetylation and phosphorylation of the CURT1B N terminus were mutually exclusive. The level of CURT1B phosphorylation, but not of acetylation, increased upon light shifts that also led to an increase in PSII core protein phosphorylation. These dynamics were largely absent in the knockout mutant of PSII core protein kinase SER/THR PROTEIN KINASE8 (STN8). Moreover, in mutants impaired in interaction between phosphorylated LHCII and PSI, the phosphorylation dynamics of CURT1B and the amount of the other CURT1 proteins were misregulated, indicating a functional interaction between CURT1B and PSI-LHCII complexes in grana margins. The complex relationships between phosphorylation of PSII, LHCII, and CURT1B support the dynamics of thylakoid protein complexes that are crucial in the optimization of photosynthesis under fluctuating light intensities.
PXD013729	31615958	Bacterial Longevity Requires Protein Synthesis and a Stringent Response. 	Proteomic analysis of Rhodopsedomonas palustris longevity	Rhodopsedomonas palustris, longevity, ribosome	Gram-negative bacteria in infections, biofilms, and industrial settings often stop growing due to nutrient depletion, immune responses, or environmental stresses. Bacteria in this state tend to be tolerant to antibiotics and are often referred to as dormant. Rhodopseudomonas palustris, a phototrophic alphaproteobacterium, can remain fully viable for more than 4 months when its growth is arrested. Here, we show that protein synthesis, specific proteins involved in translation, and a stringent response are required for this remarkable longevity. Because it can generate ATP from light during growth arrest, R. palustris is an extreme example of a bacterial species that will stay alive for long periods of time as a relatively homogeneous population of cells and it is thus an excellent model organism for studies of bacterial longevity. There is evidence that other Gram-negative species also continue to synthesize proteins during growth arrest and that a stringent response is required for their longevity as well. Our observations challenge the notion that growth-arrested cells are necessarily dormant and metabolically inactive and suggest that such bacteria may have a level of metabolic activity that is higher than many would have assumed. Our results also expand our mechanistic understanding of a crucial but understudied phase of the bacterial life cycle.IMPORTANCE We are surrounded by bacteria, but they do not completely dominate our planet despite the ability of many to grow extremely rapidly in the laboratory. This has been interpreted to mean that bacteria in nature are often in a dormant state. We investigated life in growth arrest of Rhodopseudomonas palustris, a proteobacterium that stays alive for months when it is not growing. We found that cells were metabolically active, and they continued to synthesize proteins and mounted a stringent response, both of which were required for their longevity. Our results suggest that long-lived bacteria are not necessarily inactive but have an active metabolism that is well adjusted to life without growth.
PXD014240	31615963	Combination of Proteogenomics with Peptide De Novo Sequencing Identifies New Genes and Hidden Posttranscriptional Modifications. 	Combination of proteogenomics with peptide de novo sequencing identifies new genes and hidden posttranscriptional modifications	Proteogenomics, RNA Editing, Sordaria macrospora, de novo peptide sequencing	Proteogenomics combines proteomics, genomics, and transcriptomics and has considerably improved genome annotation in poorly investigated phylogenetic groups for which homology information is lacking. Furthermore, it can be advantageous when reinvestigating well-annotated genomes. Here, we applied an advanced proteogenomics approach, combining standard proteogenomics with peptide de novo sequencing, to refine annotation of the well-studied model fungus Sordaria macrospora We investigated samples from different developmental and physiological conditions, resulting in the detection of 104 so-far hidden proteins and annotation changes in 575 genes, including 389 splice site refinements. Significantly, our approach provides peptide-level evidence for 113 single-amino-acid variations and 15 C-terminal protein elongations originating from A-to-I RNA editing, a phenomenon recently detected in fungi. Coexpression and phylostratigraphic analysis of the refined proteome suggest that new functions in evolutionarily young genes correlate with distinct developmental stages. In conclusion, our advanced proteogenomics approach supports and promotes functional studies of fungal model systems.IMPORTANCE Next-generation sequencing techniques have considerably increased the number of completely sequenced eukaryotic genomes. These genomes are mostly automatically annotated, and ab initio gene prediction is commonly combined with homology-based search approaches and often supported by transcriptomic data. The latter in particular improve the prediction of intron splice sites and untranslated regions. However, correct prediction of translation initiation sites (TIS), alternative splice junctions, and protein-coding potential remains challenging. Here, we present an advanced proteogenomics approach, namely, the combination of proteogenomics and de novo peptide sequencing analysis, in conjunction with Blast2GO and phylostratigraphy. Using the model fungus Sordaria macrospora as an example, we provide a comprehensive view of the proteome that not only increases the functional understanding of this multicellular organism at different developmental stages but also immensely enhances the genome annotation quality.
PXD013162	31617665	Proteomics Identification and Validation of Desmocollin-1 and Catechol-O-Methyltransferase as Proteins Associated with Breast Cancer Cell Migration and Metastasis. 	Proteomics identification and validation of desmocollin-1 and catechol-O-methyltransferase as proteins associated with breast cancer cell migration and metastasis	Breast cancer, SILAC, metastasis, transmembrane protein	Biological treatment of many cancers currently targets membrane bound receptors located on a cell surface. To identify novel membrane proteins associated with migration and metastasis of breast cancer cells, a more migrating subpopulation of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line is selected and characterized. A high-resolution quantitative mass spectrometry with SILAC labeling is applied to analyze their surfaceome and it is compared with that of parental MDA-MB-231 cells. Among 824 identified proteins (FDR < 0.01), 128 differentially abundant cell surface proteins with at least one transmembrane domain are found. Of these, i) desmocollin-1 (DSC1) is validated as a protein connected with lymph node status of luminal A breast cancer, tumor grade, and Her-2 status by immunohistochemistry in the set of 96 primary breast tumors, and ii) catechol-O-methyltransferase is successfully verified as a protein associated with lymph node metastasis of triple negative breast cancer as well as with tumor grade by targeted data extraction from the SWATH-MS data of the same set of tissues. The findings indicate importance of both proteins for breast cancer development and metastasis and highlight the potential of biomarker validation strategy via targeted data extraction from SWATH-MS datasets.
PXD015278	31619517	The RNA-binding protein SART3 promotes miR-34a biogenesis and G1 cell cycle arrest in lung cancer cells. 	Identification of SART3 as a pre-miR-34a-binding protein	RBPs, SART3, miR34, miRNA	MicroRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) are small, noncoding RNAs that are implicated in the regulation of most biological processes. Global miRNA biogenesis is altered in many cancers, and RNA-binding proteins play a role in miRNA biogenesis, presenting a promising avenue for targeting miRNA dysregulation in diseases. miR-34a exhibits tumor-suppressive activities by targeting cell cycle regulators CDK4/6 and anti-apoptotic factor BCL-2, among other regulatory pathways such as Wnt, TGF-beta, and Notch signaling. Many cancers exhibit down-regulation or loss of miR-34a, and synthetic miR-34a supplementation has been shown to inhibit tumor growth in vivo However, the post-transcriptional mechanisms that cause miR-34a loss in cancer are not entirely understood. Here, using a proteomics-mediated approach in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells, we identified squamous cell carcinoma antigen recognized by T-cells 3 (SART3) as a putative pre-miR-34a-binding protein. SART3 is a spliceosome recycling factor and nuclear RNA-binding protein with no previously reported role in miRNA regulation. We found that SART3 binds pre-miR-34a with higher specificity than pre-let-7d (used as a negative control) and elucidated a new functional role for SART3 in NSCLC cells. SART3 overexpression increased miR-34a levels, down-regulated the miR-34a target genes CDK4/6, and caused a cell cycle arrest in the G1 phase. In vitro binding experiments revealed that the RNA-recognition motifs within the SART3 sequence are responsible for selective pre-miR-34a binding. Our results provide evidence for a significant role of SART3 in miR-34a biogenesis and cell cycle progression in NSCLC cells.
PXD013332	31620119	Interactome of the Autoimmune Risk Protein ANKRD55. 	Interactome of the autoimmune risk gene product ANKRD55	ANKRD55, ankyrin repeat, autoimmune, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis	The ankyrin repeat domain-55 (ANKRD55) gene contains intronic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with risk to contract multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis or other autoimmune disorders. Risk alleles of these SNPs are associated with higher levels of ANKRD55 in CD4(+) T cells. The biological function of ANKRD55 is unknown, but given that ankyrin repeat domains constitute one of the most common protein-protein interaction platforms in nature, it is likely to function in complex with other proteins. Thus, identification of its protein interactomes may provide clues. We identified ANKRD55 interactomes via recombinant overexpression in HEK293 or HeLa cells and mass spectrometry. One hundred forty-eight specifically interacting proteins were found in total protein extracts and 22 in extracts of sucrose gradient-purified nuclei. Bioinformatic analysis suggested that the ANKRD55-protein partners from total protein extracts were related to nucleotide and ATP binding, enriched in nuclear transport terms and associated with cell cycle and RNA, lipid and amino acid metabolism. The enrichment analysis of the ANKRD55-protein partners from nuclear extracts is related to sumoylation, RNA binding, processes associated with cell cycle, RNA transport, nucleotide and ATP binding. The interaction between overexpressed ANKRD55 isoform 001 and endogenous RPS3, the cohesins SMC1A and SMC3, CLTC, PRKDC, VIM, beta-tubulin isoforms, and 14-3-3 isoforms were validated by western blot, reverse immunoprecipitaton and/or confocal microscopy. We also identified three phosphorylation sites in ANKRD55, with S436 exhibiting the highest score as likely 14-3-3 binding phosphosite. Our study suggests that ANKRD55 may exert function(s) in the formation or architecture of multiple protein complexes, and is regulated by (de)phosphorylation reactions. Based on interactome and subcellular localization analysis, ANKRD55 is likely transported into the nucleus by the classical nuclear import pathway and is involved in mitosis, probably via effects associated with mitotic spindle dynamics.
PXD014298	31620147	The C-Terminal Domains SnRK2 Box and ABA Box Have a Role in Sugarcane SnRK2s Auto-Activation and Activity. 	The C-terminal domains SnRK2-box and ABA-box have a role in sugarcane SnRK2s auto-activation and activity	Abscisic Acid, Crop plant, SnRK2, abiotic stress, kinase regulation, sugarcane	Resistance to drought stress is fundamental to plant survival and development. Abscisic acid (ABA) is one of the major hormones involved in different types of abiotic and biotic stress responses. ABA intracellular signaling has been extensively explored in Arabidopsis thaliana and occurs via a phosphorylation cascade mediated by three related protein kinases, denominated SnRK2s (SNF1-related protein kinases). However, the role of ABA signaling and the biochemistry of SnRK2 in crop plants remains underexplored. Considering the importance of the ABA hormone in abiotic stress tolerance, here we investigated the regulatory mechanism of sugarcane SnRK2s-known as stress/ABA-activated protein kinases (SAPKs). The crystal structure of ScSAPK10 revealed the characteristic SnRK2 family architecture, in which the regulatory SnRK2 box interacts with the kinase domain alphaC helix. To study sugarcane SnRK2 regulation, we produced a series of mutants for the protein regulatory domains SnRK2 box and ABA box. Mutations in ScSAPK8 SnRK2 box aimed at perturbing its interaction with the protein kinase domain reduced protein kinase activity in vitro. On the other hand, mutations to ScSAPK ABA box did not impact protein kinase activity but did alter the protein autophosphorylation pattern. Taken together, our results demonstrate that both SnRK2 and ABA boxes might play a role in sugarcane SnRK2 function.
PXD015132	31621333	Global Secretome Characterization of the Pathogenic Yeast Candida glabrata. 	Secretome analysis of Candida glabrata aspartyl protease-deficient strains	Candida glabrata, Mucin Msb2, cell wall proteins, secretome of yeasts, secretory proteins	Secretory proteins are key modulators of host-pathogen interaction. The human opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida glabrata lacks secreted proteolytic activity but possesses 11 glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored aspartyl proteases, also referred to as Yapsins (CgYps1-11), that are essential for its virulence. To delineate the role of CgYapsins in interaction with host cells, we have profiled, through liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approach, the total secretome of wild-type and Cgyps1-11Delta mutant. The wild-type secretome consisted of 119 proteins which were primarily involved in cell wall organization, carbohydrate metabolism, proteolysis, and translation processes. Of eight CgYapsins identified in the secretome, the release of two major CgYapsins, CgYps1 and CgYps7, to the medium was confirmed by Western analysis. Further, comparative analysis revealed 20 common proteins, probably signifying the core fungal secretome, among C. glabrata, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Candida albicans secretomes. Strikingly, the Cgyps1-11Delta secretome was 4.6-fold larger, and contained 65 differentially abundant proteins, as revealed by label-free quantitative profiling, with 49 and 16 being high- and low-abundant proteins, respectively, compared to the wild-type secretome. Importantly, the CgMsb2 mucin, a putative CgYapsins' substrate, was six-fold underrepresented in the mutant secretome. Altogether, we demonstrate for the first time that CgYapsins are both bona fide constituents and key modulators of the C. glabrata secretome.
PXD014616	31623233	The Interaction between Phagocytes and Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) Mediated by the Activated Complement System is the Key to GBS Inducing Acute Bacterial Meningitis of Tilapia. 	The liver,spleen,brain,intestine and kidney tissue of the Oreochromis niloticus which infected with Streptococcus agalactiae LC-MSMS	Oreochromis niloticus, S.agalactiae, brain, intestine, kidney, liver, spleen	Streptococcus agalactiae is an important pathogen for tilapia meningitis. Most of the infected tilapia die rapidly in production, when the way to study the pathogenic mechanism of bacteria on host through chronic infection in laboratory is not comprehensive and accurate enough to elucidate the real pathogenic mechanism. The objective of this study was to investigate the mechanism of acute bacterial meningitis of tilapia caused by Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS), and provide a theoretical basis for its prevention and treatment. Duel RNA-seq, proteome analysis, histopathological analysis, plasma biochemical indexes, and blood routine examination were performed on tilapias infected with fish-derived GBS attenuated strain YM001 and its parental virulent strain HN016. The results showed that the contents of white blood cell (WBC), monocytes (MON), and neutrophil (NEU) were significantly lower in the HN016 group compared to that in the YM001 group (p < 0.05). Histopathological examination showed that there were partially lesions in the examined tissues of tilapia infected by HN016, while no obvious histopathological changes occurred in the YM001 group. The differential expressed genes (DEGs) and differential expressed proteins (DEPs) between YM001 and HN016 were mainly enriched in the beta-lactam resistance pathway (oppA1, oppA2, oppB, oppC, oppD, oppF, and mrcA). The DEGs DEPs between YM001-brain and HN016-brain were mainly enriched in the complement and coagulation cascades signaling pathway (C2a, c4b, c3b, c7, CD59, ITGB2, and ITGAX). The present study indicates that the interaction between phagocytes and GBS mediated by the activated complement system is the key to GBS inducing tilapia acute bacterial meningitis. The low survival ability caused by reduced beta-lactam antibiotics resistance is one of the important reasons for why YM001 lost its pathogenicity to tilapia.
PXD015946	31624233	Hippocampal proteomic changes of susceptibility and resilience to depression or anxiety in a rat model of chronic mild stress. 	Hippocampal proteomics of CMS-treated rats	Hippocampus, chronic mild stress (CMS), rat	Chronic stressful occurrences are documented as a vital cause of both depression and anxiety disorders. However, the stress-induced molecular mechanisms underlying the common and distinct pathophysiology of these disorders remains largely unclear. We utilized a chronic mild stress (CMS) rat model to differentiate and subgroup depression-susceptible, anxiety-susceptible, and insusceptible rats. The hippocampus was analyzed for differential proteomes by combining mass spectrometry and the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) labeling technique. Out of 2593 quantified proteins, 367 were aberrantly expressed. These hippocampal protein candidates might be associated with susceptibility to stress-induced depression or anxiety and stress resilience. They provide the potential protein systems involved in various metabolic pathways as novel investigative protein targets. Further, independent immunoblot analysis identified changes in Por, Idh2 and Esd; Glo1, G6pdx, Aldh2, and Dld; Dlat, Ogdhl, Anxal, Tpp2, and Sdha that were specifically associated to depression-susceptible, anxiety-susceptible, or insusceptible groups respectively, suggesting that identical CMS differently impacted the mitochondrial and metabolic processes in the hippocampus. Collectively, the observed alterations to protein abundance profiles of the hippocampus provided significant and novel insights into the stress regulation mechanism in a CMS rat model. This might serve as the molecular basis for further studies that would contributed to a better understanding of the similarities and differences in pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying stress-induced depression or anxiety, and stress resiliency.
PXD013857	31624792	Alternative trafficking of Weibel-Palade body proteins in CRISPR/Cas9-engineered von Willebrand factor-deficient blood outgrowth endothelial cells. 	A CRISPR/Cas9 engineered Von Willebrand factor deficient endothelial cell model shows alternative trafficking of Weibel-Palade body proteins	Endothelial Cells, Gene Knockout Techniques, Protein Transport, Secretory Vesicles, von Willebrand Factor	BACKGROUND: Synthesis of the hemostatic protein von Willebrand factor (VWF) drives formation of endothelial storage organelles called Weibel-Palade bodies (WPBs). In the absence of VWF, angiogenic and inflammatory mediators that are costored in WPBs are subject to alternative trafficking routes. In patients with von Willebrand disease (VWD), partial or complete absence of VWF/WPBs may lead to additional bleeding complications, such as angiodysplasia. Studies addressing the role of VWF using VWD patient-derived blood outgrowth endothelial cells (BOECs) have reported conflicting results due to the intrinsic heterogeneity of patient-derived BOECs. OBJECTIVE: To generate a VWF-deficient endothelial cell model using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) genome engineering of blood outgrowth endothelial cells. METHODS: We used CRISPR/CRISPR-associated protein 9 editing in single-donor cord blood-derived BOECs (cbBOECs) to generate clonal VWF (-/-) cbBOECs. Clones were selected using high-throughput screening, VWF mutations were validated by sequencing, and cells were phenotypically characterized. RESULTS: Two VWF (-/-) BOEC clones were obtained and were entirely devoid of WPBs, while their overall cell morphology was unaltered. Several WPB proteins, including CD63, syntaxin-3 and the cargo proteins angiopoietin (Ang)-2, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-8 showed alternative trafficking and secretion in the absence of VWF. Interestingly, Ang-2 was relocated to the cell periphery and colocalized with Tie-2. CONCLUSIONS: CRISPR editing of VWF provides a robust method to create VWF- deficient BOECs that can be directly compared to their wild-type counterparts. Results obtained with our model system confirmed alternative trafficking of several WPB proteins in the absence of VWF and support the theory that increased Ang-2/Tie-2 interaction contributes to angiogenic abnormalities in VWD patients.
PXD010264	31626733	Stochastic Protein Alkylation by Antimalarial Peroxides. 	Comparison of the proteome-wide alkylation signatures of antimalarial peroxides: ozonides vs. artemisinin	Malaria, label-free quantification, peroxides	Antimalarial peroxides such as the phytochemical artemisinin or the synthetic ozonides arterolane and artefenomel undergo reductive cleavage of the pharmacophoric peroxide bond by ferrous heme, released by parasite hemoglobin digestion. The generated carbon-centered radicals alkylate heme in an intramolecular reaction and proteins in an intermolecular reaction. Here, we determine the proteinaceous alkylation signatures of artemisinin and synthetic ozonides in Plasmodium falciparum using alkyne click chemistry probes to identify target proteins by affinity purification and mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Using stringent controls and purification procedures, we identified 25 P. falciparum proteins that were alkylated by the antimalarial peroxides in a peroxide-dependent manner, but the alkylation patterns were more random than we had anticipated. Moreover, there was little overlap in the alkylation signatures identified in this work and those disclosed in previous studies. Our findings suggest that alkylation of parasite proteins by antimalarial peroxides is likely to be a nonspecific, stochastic process.
PXD014442	31626997	Analysis of 5000 year-old human teeth using optimized large-scale and targeted proteomics approaches for detection of sex-specific peptides. 	Analysis of 5000 year-old human teeth using optimized large-scale and targeted proteomics approaches for detection of sex-specific peptides	Amelogenin, Data dependent acquisition, Paleoproteomics, Parallel reaction monitoring, Sex determination, Tooth	The study demonstrates the high potential of MS-based proteomics coupled to an iterative database search strategy for the in-depth investigation of ancient proteomes. An efficient targeted PRM MS-based approach, although limited to the detection of a single pair of sex-specific amelogenin peptides, allowed confirming the sex of individuals in ancient dental remains, an essential information for paleoanthropologists facing the issue of sex determination and dimorphism.
PXD015892	31626998	pSILAC method coupled with two complementary digestion approaches reveals PRPF39 as a new E7070-dependent DCAF15 substrate. 	pSILAC method coupled with two complementary digestion approaches reveals PRPF39 as a new E7070-dependent DCAF15 substrate	DCAF15, E7070, PRPF39, degradation, pSILAC	Targeting specific ubiquitin E3 ligase for degradation of disease-driven protein has recently been an important concept for cancer therapy, as exemplified by the case of thalidomide for the treatment of multiple myeloma. E7070, an aryl sulfonamide drug, exhibited anticancer activity by targeting the E3 ligase receptor DCAF15, with RBM39 as the only known substrate. Exploration of additional substrates of E7070 would facilitate elucidation of its mechanism of actions. To this end, we used a strategy combing pSILAC method with two complementary digestion approaches (LysC-Trypsin and LysN-LysArgiNase) to accurately monitor the protein turnover and increase the depth of proteome profiling. Systematically, we showed that E7070 treatment changed turnover rates of 868 proteins (1.5 fold change and p-value <.05). Several proteins displayed accelerated turnover indicating they were potential new substrates of E7070, among which, pre-mRNA splicing factor 39 (PRPF39) had been reported to be overexpressed in certain cancers. We further demonstrated that PRPF39 was ubiquitinated and degraded by E7070 in a DCAF15-dependent manner, and represented a new bona fide substrate of E7070. The degradation of PRPF39 might also be contributed to the anticancer activity of E7070. SIGNIFICANCE: Identification of degraded substrates is difficult because protein abundance is a comprehensive result regulated by protein production and degradation at the same time. Pulsed SILAC (pSILAC), a method to measure protein turnover, would provide higher sensitivity than total protein quantification. In addition, some peptide sequences are not amenable to MS analysis after LysC-Trypsin digestion. LysN-LysargiNase, as a mirror protease combination of LysC-Trypsin, can be complementary for peptide identification with LysC-Trypsin. By combining pSILAC with two complementary digestion approaches (LysC-Trypsin and LysN-LysArgiNase), we systematically investigated E7070-dependent protein degradation. As a result, we found several potential degradation substrates of E7070 including PRPF39. Further, by exploiting a series of biological assays, we demonstrated that E7070 can lead to the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of PRPF39 by promoting the recruitment of PRPF39 to the CUL4-DCAF15 E3 ubiquitin ligase.
PXD015389	31628314	Sialic acid mediated mechanical activation of beta2 adrenergic receptors by bacterial pili. 	Sialic acid-mediated mechanical activation of beta2 adrenergic receptors by bacterial pili	Blood-Brain Barrier, N-Glycan, Proline effect, Q-exactive, human beta-adrenergic receptor, internal fragments, pilin	Meningococcus utilizes beta-arrestin selective activation of endothelial cell beta2 adrenergic receptor (beta2AR) to cause meningitis in humans. Molecular mechanisms of receptor activation by the pathogen and of its species selectivity remained elusive. We report that beta2AR activation requires two asparagine-branched glycan chains with terminally exposed N-acetyl-neuraminic acid (sialic acid, Neu5Ac) residues located at a specific distance in its N-terminus, while being independent of surrounding amino-acid residues. Meningococcus triggers receptor signaling by exerting direct and hemodynamic-promoted traction forces on beta2AR glycans. Similar activation is recapitulated with beads coated with Neu5Ac-binding lectins, submitted to mechanical stimulation. This previously unknown glycan-dependent mode of allosteric mechanical activation of a G protein-coupled receptor contributes to meningococcal species selectivity, since Neu5Ac is only abundant in humans due to the loss of CMAH, the enzyme converting Neu5Ac into N-glycolyl-neuraminic acid in other mammals. It represents an additional mechanism of evolutionary adaptation of a pathogen to its host.
PXD014449	31629055	Qualitative proteomic comparison of metabolic and CM-like protein fractions in old and modern wheat Italian genotypes by a shotgun approach. 	Qualitative proteomic comparison of metabolic and CM-like protein fractions in old and modern wheat Italian genotypes by a shotgun approach	allergies, diet and health, high resolution mass spectrometry, old and modern wheat genotypes, proteins, proteome analysis	The close relationship between diet and health is generally recognized and the growing wellness and consciousness, especially in developed countries, have led to increasing interest for old wheat genotypes, based on perceived health benefits. Although nutritional comparison between old and modern wheat varieties is still controversial, it is generally accepted that old wheat genotypes remained unchanged over the last hundred years. By contrast, modern wheat genotypes are derived by modification of old wheats during the so-called "Green-Revolution" in the second half of the 20th century focusing on obtaining properties in terms of higher grain yield. The present work reports the first comprehensive proteomic profiling and qualitative comparison at the molecular level of metabolic and Chloroform-Methanol (CM)-like protein fractions extracted from mature kernels of two old Sicilian durum wheat landraces, Russello and Timilia Reste Bianche, and Simeto, an improved durum wheat variety widespread in Italy and other Mediterranean countries and chosen as representative of the most widely commercial cultivars. The results obtained reveal that metabolic and CM-like protein fractions of old and modern genotypes present remarkably high similarity with only minor differences. This leads to the conclusion that from a food and nutritional perspective there is a substantial equivalence of the protein composition of the old and modern cultivars. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014449. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: In recent years consumers have shown growing interest in the old wheat genotypes, which are generally perceived more "natural" and healthier than modern ones. However, comparison of nutritional value for modern and old wheat varieties is still controversial suggesting further studies. In particular proteome analysis of old and modern wheat genotypes is currently ongoing with particular focus on gluten proteins, whereas the metabolic protein fraction has not yet been investigated. In the present study, we conducted a comprehensive proteomic profile and qualitative comparison at the molecular level of metabolic and Chloroform-Methanol (CM)-like protein fractions of the old Sicilian landraces Russello and Timilia Reste Bianche and the modern cultivar Simeto by applying a shotgun approach. The results reveal that the metabolic and CM-like protein fractions of old and modern genotypes are remarkably similar with only minor differences, leading to the conclusion that from a food and nutritional perspective there is a substantial equivalence of these cultivars. These results may contribute to improved understanding of the relationship between protein profiles of old wheat genotypes and their potential benefits for human consumption.
PXD012296	31629960	Evaluation of N-terminal labeling mass spectrometry for characterization of partially hydrolyzed gluten proteins. 	Validation of N-terminal Labeling Mass Spectrometry for Characterization of Partially Hydrolyzed Gluten Proteins	Hydrolyzed gluten, N-terminal Labeling, TAILS, gluten	Gluten, a group of proteins found in wheat, barley, and rye, is the trigger of celiac disease, an immune disorder that affects about 1% of people worldwide. The toxicity of partially hydrolyzed gluten (PHG) in fermented products is less well understood due to the significant analytical challenges in PHG characterization. In this project, an N-terminal labeling mass spectrometry method, terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS), was optimized for the in-depth analysis of PHG and validated using a test protease (trypsin) with known cleavage specificity. Gluten N-termini in test and control groups were labeled with heavy and light formaldehyde, respectively. Trypsin-generated neo N-termini were identified by exhibiting an MS1 Log2 H:L peak area ratio with a significant difference (p < .01) from zero and native N-termini with no significant difference from zero (p > .01). Using this strategy, all abundant, theoretical, test protease-generated peptides in exemplar alpha/beta gliadins and gamma gliadins were identified. SIGNIFICANCE: This study is the first study that modified and evaluated TAILS analysis for the analysis of partially hydrolyzed gluten proteins. The evaluation indicated that the TAILS analysis could be modified and expanded to the identification of multiple protease cleavage sites in gluten proteins and is worth further evaluation as a novel strategy for the analysis of natural hydrolysis of gluten in food processes. This strategy also may be further applied to characterize a broader range of partially hydrolyzed allergens in foods and provide reference for their safety assessment to both industry and regulatory authorities.
PXD016756	31634432	LysargiNase and Chemical Derivatization Based Strategy for Facilitating In-Depth Profiling of C-Terminome. 	LysargiNase and Chemical Derivatization Based Strategy for 2 Facilitating In-Depth Profiling of CTerminome	C-terminomics, LysargiNase, human C-terminome, processed C-terminus	Global identification of protein C-termini is highly challenging due to their low abundance in conventional shotgun proteomics. Several enrichment strategies have been developed to facilitate the detection of C-terminal peptides. One major issue of previous approaches is the limited C-terminome coverage. Herein, we integrated LysargiNase digestion, chemical acetylation on neo-N-terminus, and a-ion-aided peptide matching into poly(allylamine)-based C-terminomics (termed as LAACTer). In this strategy, we leveraged LysargiNase, a protease with cleavage specificity N-terminal to Lys and Arg residues, to cover previously unidentifiable C-terminome and employed chemical acetylation and a-ion-aided peptide matching to efficiently boost peptide identifications. Triplicates of LAACTer identified a total of 834 C-termini from proteome of 293T cell, which expanded the coverage by 164% (643 more unique C-termini) compared with the parallel experiments using the original workflow. Compared with the largest human C-terminome data sets (containing 800-900 C-termini), LAACTer not only achieved comparable profiling depth but also yielded 465 previously unidentified C-termini. In a SILAC (stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture)-based quantitative study for identification of GluC-cleaved products, LAACTer quantified 300% more C-terminal peptides than the original workflow. Using LAACTer and the original workflow, we performed global analysis for the C-terminal sequences of 293T cell. The original and processed C-termini displayed distinct sequence patterns, implying the "C-end rules" that regulates protein stability could be more complex than just amino acid motifs. In conclusion, we reason LAACTer could be a powerful proteomic tool for in-depth C-terminomics and would benefit better functional understanding of protein C-termini.
PXD014138	31636180	Invariable stoichiometry of ribosomal proteins in mouse brain tissues with aging. 	Age-dependent dynamics of ribosomal proteins in mouse brain	age-dependent changes, mouse brain tissues, ribosomal proteins, translation	Across phyla, the ribosomes-the central molecular machines for translation of genetic information-exhibit an overall preserved architecture and a conserved functional core. The natural heterogeneity of the ribosome periodically phases a debate on their functional specialization and the tissue-specific variations of the ribosomal protein (RP) pool. Using sensitive differential proteomics, we performed a thorough quantitative inventory of the protein composition of ribosomes from 3 different mouse brain tissues, i.e., hippocampus, cortex, and cerebellum, across various ages, i.e., juvenile, adult, and middle-aged mouse groups. In all 3 brain tissues, in both monosomal and polysomal ribosome fractions, we detected an invariant set of 72 of 79 core RPs, RACK1 and 2 of the 8 RP paralogs, the stoichiometry of which remained constant across different ages. The amount of a few RPs punctually varied in either one tissue or one age group, but these fluctuations were within the tight bounds of the measurement noise. Further comparison with the ribosomes from a high-metabolic-rate organ, e.g., the liver, revealed protein composition identical to that of the ribosomes from the 3 brain tissues. Together, our data show an invariant protein composition of ribosomes from 4 tissues across different ages of mice and support the idea that functional heterogeneity may arise from factors other than simply ribosomal protein stoichiometry.
PXD014639	31636417	ER-shaping atlastin proteins act as central hubs to promote flavivirus replication and virion assembly. 	ER-shaping Atlastin proteins differentially contribute to flavivirus replication and assembly	AP-LC-MS/MS, ATL-2, ATL-3, Atlastin	Flaviviruses, including dengue virus and Zika virus, extensively remodel the cellular endomembrane network to generate replication organelles that promote viral genome replication and virus production. However, it remains unclear how these membranes and associated cellular proteins act during the virus cycle. Here, we show that atlastins (ATLs), a subset of ER resident proteins involved in neurodegenerative diseases, have dichotomous effects on flaviviruses-with ATL2 depletion leading to replication organelle defects, and ATL3 depletion to changes in virus production pathways. We characterized non-conserved functional domains in ATL paralogues and show that the ATL interactome is profoundly reprogrammed following dengue virus infection. Screen analysis confirmed non-redundant ATL functions and identified a specific role for ATL3, and its interactor ARF4, in vesicle trafficking and virion maturation. Our data identify ATLs as central hubs targeted by flaviviruses to establish their replication organelle and to achieve efficient virion maturation and secretion.
PXD013552	31636606	Glucocorticoid Treatment Leads to Aberrant Ion and Macromolecular Transport in Regenerating Zebrafish Fins. 	Glucocorticoid treatment leads to aberrant ion and macromolecular transport mechanisms in regenerating zebrafish fins.	LFQ, Q Exactive HF, Zebrafish, fin regeneration, glucocorticoid, lable free quantification, prednisolone	Long-term glucocorticoid administration in patients undergoing immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory treatment is accompanied by impaired bone formation and increased fracture risk. Furthermore, glucocorticoid treatment can lead to impaired wound healing and altered cell metabolism. Recently, we showed that exposure of zebrafish to the glucocorticoid prednisolone during fin regeneration impacts negatively on the length, bone formation, and osteoblast function of the regenerate. The underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms of impairment, however, remain incompletely understood. In order to further elucidate the anti-regenerative effects of continued glucocorticoid exposure on fin tissues, we performed proteome profiling of fin regenerates undergoing prednisolone treatment, in addition to profiling of homeostatic fin tissue and fins undergoing undisturbed regeneration. By using LC-MS (liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry) we identified more than 6,000 proteins across all tissue samples. In agreement with previous reports, fin amputation induces changes in chromatin structure and extracellular matrix (ECM) composition within the tissue. Notably, prednisolone treatment leads to impaired expression of selected ECM components in the fin regenerate. Moreover, the function of ion transporting ATPases and other proteins involved in macromolecule and vesicular transport mechanisms of the cell appears to be altered by prednisolone treatment. In particular, acidification of membrane-enclosed organelles such as lysosomes is inhibited. Taken together, our data indicate that continued synthetic glucocorticoid exposure in zebrafish deteriorates cellular trafficking processes in the regenerating fin, which interferes with appropriate tissue restoration upon injury.
PXD014658	31638822	Mapping of Transglutaminase-2 Sites of Human Salivary Small Basic Proline-Rich Proteins by HPLC-High-Resolution ESI-MS/MS. 	Mapping of transglutaminase 2 active sites of human salivary small basic proline-rich	Transglutaminase 2, bPRPs, saliva	Because of the distinctive features of the oral cavity, the determination of the proteins involved in the formation of the "oral protein pellicle" is demanding. The present study investigated the susceptibility of several human basic proline-rich peptides, named P-H, P-D, P-F, P-J, and II-2, as substrates of transglutaminase-2. The reactivity of the P-C peptide and statherin was also investigated. Peptides purified from human whole saliva were incubated with the enzyme in the presence or in the absence of monodansyl-cadaverine. Mass spectrometry analyses of the reaction products highlighted that P-H and P-D (P32 and A32 variants) were active substrates, II-2 was less reactive, and P-F and P-J showed very low reactivity. P-C and statherin were highly reactive. All of the peptides formed cyclo derivatives, and only specific glutamine residues were involved in the cycle formation and reacted with monodansyl-cadaverine: Q29 of P-H, Q37 of P-D, Q21 of II-2, Q41 of P-C, and Q37 of statherin were the principal reactive residues. One or two secondary glutamine residues of only P-H, P-D P32, P-C, and statherin were hierarchically susceptible to the reaction with monodansyl-cadaverine. MS and MS/MS data were deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium ( http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride ) via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD014658.
PXD010388	31640547	Proteomic analysis showing the signaling pathways involved in the rhizome enlargement process in Nelumbo nucifera. 	Lotus rhizome LC-MSMS -  Proteomic analysis showing the signaling pathways involved in the rhizome enlargement process in Nelumbo nucifera	Lotus, rhizome	BACKGROUND: Rhizome is the storage underground stem of lotus (Nelumbo nucifera), which is enlarged before winter season and could be used for asexual propagation. In addition, the enlarged rhizome is a nutritional vegetable with abundant starch, proteins, and vitamins. Enlargement of lotus rhizome is not only significance for itself to survive from the cold winter, but also important for its economic value. RESULTS: To explore the mechanism underlying its enlargement, integrative analyses of morphology, physiology and proteomics were conducted on the rhizome at stolon, middle, and enlarged stages. Morphological observation and physiological analyses showed that rhizomes were gradually enlarged during this process, in which the starch accumulation was also initiated. Quantitative proteomic analysis on the rhizomes at these three stages identified 302 stage-specific proteins (SSPs) and 172 differently expressed proteins (DEPs), based on which GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were conducted. The results indicated that light and auxin signal might be transduced through secondary messenger Ca(2+), and play important roles in lotus rhizome enlargement. CONCLUSION: These results will provide new insights into understanding the mechanism of lotus rhizome enlargement. Meanwhile, some candidate genes might be useful for further studies on this process, as well as breeding of rhizome lotus.
PXD011772	31640799	The RNA-binding ubiquitin ligase MKRN1 functions in ribosome-associated quality control of poly(A) translation. 	The RNA-binding ubiquitin ligase MKRN1 acts as a sensor for ribosome-associated quality control of poly(A)-translation	MKRN1, RNA binding, iCLIP, poly(A), ribosome-associated quality control, ubiquitin remnant profiling, ubiquitylation	BACKGROUND: Cells have evolved quality control mechanisms to ensure protein homeostasis by detecting and degrading aberrant mRNAs and proteins. A common source of aberrant mRNAs is premature polyadenylation, which can result in non-functional protein products. Translating ribosomes that encounter poly(A) sequences are terminally stalled, followed by ribosome recycling and decay of the truncated nascent polypeptide via ribosome-associated quality control. RESULTS: Here, we demonstrate that the conserved RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase Makorin Ring Finger Protein 1 (MKRN1) promotes ribosome stalling at poly(A) sequences during ribosome-associated quality control. We show that MKRN1 directly binds to the cytoplasmic poly(A)-binding protein (PABPC1) and associates with polysomes. MKRN1 is positioned upstream of poly(A) tails in mRNAs in a PABPC1-dependent manner. Ubiquitin remnant profiling and in vitro ubiquitylation assays uncover PABPC1 and ribosomal protein RPS10 as direct ubiquitylation substrates of MKRN1. CONCLUSIONS: We propose that MKRN1 mediates the recognition of poly(A) tails to prevent the production of erroneous proteins from prematurely polyadenylated transcripts, thereby maintaining proteome integrity.
PXD012320	31641084	Clustering as a Means To Control Nitrate Respiration Efficiency and Toxicity in Escherichia coli. 	Interactome of the Escherichia coli nitrate reductase respiratory complex, NarGHI, under various metabolic conditions	Escherichia coli, NarGHI, interactome, label-free, nitrate respiration	Respiration is a fundamental process that has to optimally respond to metabolic demand and environmental changes. We previously showed that nitrate respiration, crucial for gut colonization by enterobacteria, is controlled by polar clustering of the nitrate reductase increasing the electron flux through the complex. Here, we show that the formate dehydrogenase electron-donating complex, FdnGHI, also clusters at the cell poles under nitrate-respiring conditions. Its proximity to the nitrate reductase complex was confirmed by its identification in the interactome of the latter, which appears to be specific to the nitrate-respiring condition. Interestingly, we have identified a multiprotein complex dedicated to handle nitric oxide resulting from the enhanced activity of the electron transport chain terminated by nitrate reductase. We demonstrated that the cytoplasmic NADH-dependent nitrite reductase NirBD and the hybrid cluster protein Hcp are key contributors to regulation of the nitric oxide level during nitrate respiration. Thus, gathering of actors involved in respiration and NO homeostasis seems to be critical to balancing maximization of electron flux and the resulting toxicity.IMPORTANCE Most bacteria rely on the redox activity of respiratory complexes embedded in the cytoplasmic membrane to gain energy in the form of ATP and of an electrochemical gradient established across the membrane. Nevertheless, production of harmful and toxic nitric oxide by actively growing bacteria as either an intermediate or side-product of nitrate respiration challenges how homeostasis control is exerted. Here, we show that components of the nitrate electron transport chain are clustered, likely influencing the kinetics of the process. Nitric oxide production from this respiratory chain is controlled and handled through a multiprotein complex, including detoxifying systems. These findings point to an essential role of compartmentalization of respiratory components in bacterial cell growth.
PXD015447	31642128	Expression of a dominant-negative AtNEET-H89C protein disrupts iron-sulfur metabolism and iron homeostasis in Arabidopsis. 	FeS protein levels in Arabidopsis plants expressing a mutated NEET protein	Fe-S, NEET	Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters play an essential role in plants as protein cofactors mediating diverse electron transfer reactions. Because they can react with oxygen to form reactive oxygen species (ROS) and inflict cellular damage, the biogenesis of Fe-S clusters is highly regulated. A recently discovered group of 2Fe-2S proteins, termed NEET proteins, was proposed to coordinate Fe-S, Fe and ROS homeostasis in mammalian cells. Here we report that disrupting the function of AtNEET, the sole member of the NEET protein family in Arabidopsis thaliana, triggers leaf-associated Fe-S- and Fe-deficiency responses, elevated Fe content in chloroplasts (1.2-1.5-fold), chlorosis, structural damage to chloroplasts and a high seedling mortality rate. Our findings suggest that disrupting AtNEET function disrupts the transfer of 2Fe-2S clusters from the chloroplastic 2Fe-2S biogenesis pathway to different cytosolic and chloroplastic Fe-S proteins, as well as to the cytosolic Fe-S biogenesis system, and that uncoupling this process triggers leaf-associated Fe-S- and Fe-deficiency responses that result in Fe over-accumulation in chloroplasts and enhanced ROS accumulation. We further show that AtNEET transfers its 2Fe-2S clusters to DRE2, a key protein of the cytosolic Fe-S biogenesis system, and propose that the availability of 2Fe-2S clusters in the chloroplast and cytosol is linked to Fe homeostasis in plants.
PXD013176	31645615	Tracking genome-editing and associated molecular perturbations by SWATH mass spectrometry. 	Tracking genome-editing and associated molecular perturbations by SWATH mass spectrometry	CRISPR, SWATH, gene editing	Advances in gene editing now allow reverse genetics to be applied to a broad range of biological systems. Ultimately, any modification to coding sequences requires confirmation at the protein level, although immunoblotting is often hampered by antibody quality or availability especially in non-model species. Sequential Window Acquisition of All Theoretical Spectra (SWATH), a mass spectrometry (MS) technology with exceptional quantitative reproducibility and accuracy, offers an ideal alternative for protein-based confirmation. Here, using genome edits in mouse, zebrafish and Bicyclus anynana butterflies produced using either homologous recombination or targeted nucleases, we demonstrate absence of the targeted proteins using SWATH, thus confirming successful editing. We show that SWATH is a robust antibody-independent alternative for monitoring gene editing at the protein level and broadly applicable across diverse organisms and targeted genome manipulation techniques. Moreover, SWATH concomitantly defines the global proteome response in the edited organism, which may provide pertinent biological insights.
PXD014870	31645732	Metabolic regulation of gene expression by histone lactylation. 	Histone Kla is regulated by cellular glycolysis	Human MCF-7 cells SILAC	The Warburg effect, which originally described increased production of lactate in cancer, is associated with diverse cellular processes such as angiogenesis, hypoxia, polarization of macrophages and activation of T cells. This phenomenon is intimately linked to several diseases including neoplasia, sepsis and autoimmune diseases(1,2). Lactate, which is converted from pyruvate in tumour cells, is widely known as an energy source and metabolic by-product. However, its non-metabolic functions in physiology and disease remain unknown. Here we show that lactate-derived lactylation of histone lysine residues serves as an epigenetic modification that directly stimulates gene transcription from chromatin. We identify 28 lactylation sites on core histones in human and mouse cells. Hypoxia and bacterial challenges induce the production of lactate by glycolysis, and this acts as a precursor that stimulates histone lactylation. Using M1 macrophages that have been exposed to bacteria as a model system, we show that histone lactylation has different temporal dynamics from acetylation. In the late phase of M1 macrophage polarization, increased histone lactylation induces homeostatic genes that are involved in wound healing, including Arg1. Collectively, our results suggest that an endogenous 'lactate clock' in bacterially challenged M1 macrophages turns on gene expression to promote homeostasis. Histone lactylation thus represents an opportunity to improve our understanding of the functions of lactate and its role in diverse pathophysiological conditions, including infection and cancer.
PXD010174	31645764	Chimeric peptidomimetic antibiotics against Gram-negative bacteria. 	An Outer Membrane Protein-Targeting Antibiotic Against Resistant Gram-Negative Bacterial Pathogens	Bam complex, DDA, E.coli, Lpt complex, OMPTA (outer membrane-targeting antibiotics), Ther, macrocyclic peptidomimetic antibiotics, novel molecular mode of action, photoaffinity labeling	There is an urgent need for new antibiotics against Gram-negative pathogens that are resistant to carbapenem and third-generation cephalosporins, against which antibiotics of last resort have lost most of their efficacy. Here we describe a class of synthetic antibiotics inspired by scaffolds derived from natural products. These chimeric antibiotics contain a beta-hairpin peptide macrocycle linked to the macrocycle found in the polymyxin and colistin family of natural products. They are bactericidal and have a mechanism of action that involves binding to both lipopolysaccharide and the main component (BamA) of the beta-barrel folding complex (BAM) that is required for the folding and insertion of beta-barrel proteins into the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria. Extensively optimized derivatives show potent activity against multidrug-resistant pathogens, including all of the Gram-negative members of the ESKAPE pathogens(1). These derivatives also show favourable drug properties and overcome colistin resistance, both in vitro and in vivo. The lead candidate is currently in preclinical toxicology studies that-if successful-will allow progress into clinical studies that have the potential to address life-threatening infections by the Gram-negative pathogens, and thus to resolve a considerable unmet medical need.
PXD015888	31647243	Analysis of the N-Glycoforms and Immunoactivity of Chinese Yam (Dioscorea opposita Thunb.) Glycoprotein 30CYGP. 	Analysis of the N-Glycoforms of a Chinese Yam (Dioscorea opposita Thunb.) Glycoprotein 30CYGPAnalysis of the N-Glycoforms of a Chinese Yam (Dioscorea opposita Thunb.) Glycoprotein 30CYGP	Dioscorea opposita Thunb., N-glycans, glycoprotein	The major protein in Chinese yam (Dioscorea opposita Thunb.) glycoprotein, 30CYGP, exhibits strong immunomodulatory activities. Research has identified the sequence and structure of 30CYGP; however, 30CYGP N-glycoform composition and immunoactivity remain unknown. We isolated and purified 30CYGP from Chinese yam and used that material to release the N-glycans contained within. The N-glycans were labeled with 1-phenyl-3-methyl-5-pyrazolone and analyzed via ESI-MS and online LC-MS. Additionally, the immunoactivities of 30CYGP and de-glycosylated 30CYGP in the RAW264.7 cell line were investigated. Six 30CYGP N-glycans were observed in total, in which three were modified with xylose (XM: 40%) and three with xylose and fucose (XFM: 60%). Furthermore, de-glycosylated 30CYGP had significantly weaker immunoactivity than 30CYGP. This study demonstrated that novel N-glycoforms may enhance 30CYGP immunoactivity. Further research on the role of varied glycosylation patterns in immunoactivity is needed.
PXD012530	31648060	Genetical and O-glycoproteomic analyses reveal the roles of three protein O-mannosyltransferases in phytopathogen Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cucumerinum. 	Comparative O-glycoproteomics of Fusarium oxysporum	Fusarium oxysporum, O-mannosylation, PMT, glycoproteomics	Protein O-mannosyltransferases (PMTs) have been identified in fungi but not in plants and nematodes, which makes PMTs become attractive targets for developing a new strategy against phytopathogens. Three PMTs have been identified in Fusarium oxysporum, a fungal pathogen that causes vascular wilt in a broad range of economical crops. By deletion or suppression of the pmt genes, we showed that all mutants displayed retarded growth, reduced conidiation, cell wall defects, ER stress and attenuated virulence in F. oxysporum f.sp. cucumerinum. In addition, the Deltapmt1 exhibited reduced thermotolerance, while the Deltapmt4 and the pmt2 conditional mutant exhibited abnormal polarized growth. Comparative glycoproteome analysis of these pmt mutants revealed that PMTs preferentially modified random coils with flanking regions rich in Ser, Thr, Ala, Glu, Asp and Lys at the stem region of membrane proteins, the N-terminal region close to signal peptide of secreted proteins, or surface of soluble proteins. PMT1 specifically acted on nuclear proteins and proteins that are responsible for protein folding, which might contribute to thermotolerance. PMT4 specifically acted on the membrane and soluble proteins in secretory pathways, especially the GPI anchoring pathway, which might contribute to synthesis and transportation of GPI anchored proteins and thus polarized growth. PMT2 was responsible for modification of proteins that are required for protein folding and cell wall synthesis, which might make PMT2 essential. Our results gave an insight to understanding of the roles of each O-mannosyltransferase in F. oxysporum f.sp. cucumerinum and provide a new perspective to prevent Fusarium wilt.
PXD015078	31648387	GUN1 influences the accumulation of NEP-dependent transcripts and chloroplast protein import in Arabidopsis cotyledons upon perturbation of chloroplast protein homeostasis. 	GUN1 controls the accumulation of NEP-dependent transcripts in Arabidopsis cotyledons	GUN1 protein, Q-exactive HF, chloroplast transit peptide (cTP), cotyledons, nuclear-encoded chloroplast-targeted, single column	Correct chloroplast development and function require co-ordinated expression of chloroplast and nuclear genes. This is achieved through chloroplast signals that modulate nuclear gene expression in accordance with the chloroplast's needs. Genetic evidence indicates that GUN1, a chloroplast-localized pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein with a C-terminal Small MutS-Related (SMR) domain, is involved in integrating multiple developmental and stress-related signals in both young seedlings and adult leaves. Recently, GUN1 was found to interact physically with factors involved in chloroplast protein homeostasis, and with enzymes of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis in adult leaves that function in various retrograde signalling pathways. Here we show that following perturbation of chloroplast protein homeostasis: (i) by growth in lincomycin-containing medium; or (ii) in mutants defective in either the FtsH protease complex (ftsh), plastid ribosome activity (prps21-1 and prpl11-1) or plastid protein import and folding (cphsc70-1), GUN1 influences NEP-dependent transcript accumulation during cotyledon greening and also intervenes in chloroplast protein import.
PXD013362	31649062	PACAP and Other Neuropeptide Targets Link Chronic Migraine and Opioid-induced Hyperalgesia in Mouse Models. 	PACAP and other neuropeptide targets link chronic migraine and opioid-induced hyperalgesia in mouse models	LC-MS, label-free, peptidomics	Chronic use of opioids can produce opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH), and when used to treat migraine, these drugs can result in increased pain and headache chronicity. We hypothesized that overlapping mechanisms between OIH and chronic migraine occur through neuropeptide dysregulation. Using label-free, non-biased liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to identify and measure changes in more than 1500 neuropeptides under these two conditions, we observed only 16 neuropeptides that were altered between the two conditions. The known pro-migraine molecule, calcitonin-gene related peptide, was among seven peptides associated with chronic migraine, with several pain-processing neuropeptides among the nine other peptides affected in OIH. Further, composite peptide complements Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and Secretogranin (SCG) showed significant changes in both chronic migraine and OIH. In a follow-up pharmacological study, we confirmed the role of PACAP in models of these two disorders, validating the effectiveness of our peptidomic approach, and identifying PACAP as a mechanistic link between chronic migraine and OIH. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013362.
PXD013099	31649110	Glycogen Metabolism Supports Photosynthesis Start through the Oxidative Pentose Phosphate Pathway in Cyanobacteria. 	Glycogen synthesis jump-starts photosynthesis through the G6P shunt in cyanobacteria	G6P shunt, Glycogen synthesis, Photosynthesis, cyanobacteria, oxidative pentose phosphate pathway	Cyanobacteria experience drastic changes in their carbon metabolism under daily light/dark cycles. During the day, the Calvin-Benson cycle fixes CO2 and diverts excess carbon into glycogen storage. At night, glycogen is degraded to support cellular respiration. The dark/light transition represents a universal environmental stress for cyanobacteria and other photosynthetic lifeforms. Recent studies revealed the essential genetic background necessary for the fitness of cyanobacteria during diurnal growth. However, the metabolic processes underlying the dark/light transition are not well understood. In this study, we observed that glycogen metabolism supports photosynthesis in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 when photosynthesis reactions start upon light exposure. Compared with the wild type, the glycogen mutant incrementglgC showed a reduced photosynthetic efficiency and a slower P700(+) rereduction rate when photosynthesis starts. Proteomic analyses indicated that glycogen is degraded through the oxidative pentose phosphate (OPP) pathway during the dark/light transition. We confirmed that the OPP pathway is essential for the initiation of photosynthesis and further showed that glycogen degradation through the OPP pathway contributes to the activation of key Calvin-Benson cycle enzymes by modulating NADPH levels. This strategy stimulates photosynthesis in cyanobacteria following dark respiration and stabilizes the Calvin-Benson cycle under fluctuating environmental conditions, thereby offering evolutionary advantages for photosynthetic organisms using the Calvin-Benson cycle for carbon fixation.
PXD013761	31649314	The Interactome analysis of the Respiratory Syncytial Virus protein M2-1 suggests a new role in viral mRNA metabolism post-transcription. 	The Interactome analysis of the Respiratory Syncytial Virus protein M2-1 suggests a new role in viral mRNA metabolism post-transcription	AP-MS, M2-1, PABPC1, RSV, virus	Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a globally prevalent negative-stranded RNA virus, which can cause life-threatening respiratory infections in young children, elderly people and immunocompromised patients. Its transcription termination factor M2-1 plays an essential role in viral transcription, but the mechanisms underpinning its function are still unclear. We investigated the cellular interactome of M2-1 using green fluorescent protein (GFP)-trap immunoprecipitation on RSV infected cells coupled with mass spectrometry analysis. We identified 137 potential cellular partners of M2-1, among which many proteins associated with mRNA metabolism, and particularly mRNA maturation, translation and stabilization. Among these, the cytoplasmic polyA-binding protein 1 (PABPC1), a candidate with a major role in both translation and mRNA stabilization, was confirmed to interact with M2-1 using protein complementation assay and specific immunoprecipitation. PABPC1 was also shown to colocalize with M2-1 from its accumulation in inclusion bodies associated granules (IBAGs) to its liberation in the cytoplasm. Altogether, these results strongly suggest that M2-1 interacts with viral mRNA and mRNA metabolism factors from transcription to translation, and imply that M2-1 may have an additional role in the fate of viral mRNA downstream of transcription.
PXD015358	31649498	Proteomic Profiling of Extracellular Vesicles Isolated From Cerebrospinal Fluid of Former National Football League Players at Risk for Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. 	Human Cerebrospinal fluid LC-MSMS	LC-MSMSMS, TMT label, cerebrospinal fluid, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, extracellular vesicles	Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) is a tauopathy that affects individuals with a history of repetitive mild traumatic brain injury, such as American football players. Initial neuropathologic changes in CTE include perivascular deposition of phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau (p-tau) neurofibrillary tangles and other aggregates in neurons, astrocytes and cell processes in an irregular pattern often at the depths of the cortical sulci. In later stages, the p-tau depositions become widespread and is associated with neurodegeneration. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are known to carry neuropathogenic molecules, most notably p-tau. We therefore examined the protein composition of EVs isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of former National Football League (NFL) players with cognitive and neuropsychiatric dysfunction, and an age-matched control group (CTRL) with no history of contact sports or traumatic brain injury. EVs were isolated from the CSF samples using an affinity purification kit. Total tau (t-tau) and tau phosphorylated on threonine181 (p-tau181) in CSF-derived EVs from former NFL players and CTRL participants were measured by ultrasensitive immunoassay. The t-tau and p-tau181 levels of CSF-derived EV were positively correlated with the t-tau and p-tau181 levels of total CSF in former NFL players, respectively, but not in the CTRL group. 429 unique proteins were identified from CSF-derived EVs and quantified by TMT-10 plex method. The identified protein molecules were significantly enriched for the extracellular exosome molecules, Alzheimer's disease pathway and Age/Telomere Length ontology as determined by DAVID Gene Ontology analysis. Ingenuity pathway analysis of the differentially expressed EV proteins revealed enrichment of canonical liver/retinoid X receptor activation pathway. Upstream effect analysis predicted MAPT (tau) as an upstream regulator in former NFL players. These data will be useful for understanding the EV-mediated disease spread and development of novel EV biomarkers for CTE and related disorders.
PXD013074	31649645	Francisella tularensis subsp. holarctica Releases Differentially Loaded Outer Membrane Vesicles Under Various Stress Conditions. 	Proteomic characterization and label-free comparison of outer membrane vesicles from Francisella tularensis subsp. holarctica strain FSC200 isolated from different cultivation conditions	FSC200, Francisella tularensis, outer membrane vesicles, stress response	Francisella tularensis is a Gram-negative, facultative intracellular bacterium, causing a severe disease called tularemia. It secretes unusually shaped nanotubular outer membrane vesicles (OMV) loaded with a number of virulence factors and immunoreactive proteins. In the present study, the vesicles were purified from a clinical isolate of subsp. holarctica strain FSC200. We here provide a comprehensive proteomic characterization of OMV using a novel approach in which a comparison of OMV and membrane fraction is performed in order to find proteins selectively enriched in OMV vs. membrane. Only these proteins were further considered to be really involved in the OMV function and/or their exceptional structure. OMV were also isolated from bacteria cultured under various cultivation conditions simulating the diverse environments of F. tularensis life cycle. These included conditions mimicking the milieu inside the mammalian host during inflammation: oxidative stress, low pH, and high temperature (42degreesC); and in contrast, low temperature (25degreesC). We observed several-fold increase in vesiculation rate and significant protein cargo changes for high temperature and low pH. Further proteomic characterization of stress-derived OMV gave us an insight how the bacterium responds to the hostile environment of a mammalian host through the release of differentially loaded OMV. Among the proteins preferentially and selectively packed into OMV during stressful cultivations, the previously described virulence factors connected to the unique intracellular trafficking of Francisella were detected. Considerable changes were also observed in a number of proteins involved in the biosynthesis and metabolism of the bacterial envelope components like O-antigen, lipid A, phospholipids, and fatty acids. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013074.
PXD014299	31650837	Discovery of a Celecoxib Binding Site on Prostaglandin E Synthase (PTGES) with a Cleavable Chelation-Assisted Biotin Probe. 	A cleavable chelation-assisted biotin probe enables the discovery of a celecoxib binding site on prostaglandin E synthase		The coxibs are a subset of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that primarily target cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) to inhibit prostaglandin signaling and reduce inflammation. However, mechanisms to inhibit other members of the prostaglandin signaling pathway may improve selectivity and reduce off-target toxicity. Here, we report a novel binding site for celecoxib on prostaglandin E synthase (PTGES), which is an enzyme downstream of COX-2 in the prostaglandin signaling pathway, using a cleavable chelation-assisted biotin probe 6. Evaluation of the multifunctional probe 6 revealed significantly improved tagging efficiencies attributable to the embedded picolyl functional group. Application of the probe 6 within the small molecule interactome mapping by photoaffinity labeling (SIM-PAL) platform using photo-celecoxib as a reporter for celecoxib identified PTGES and other membrane proteins in the top eight enriched proteins from A549 cells. Four binding sites to photo-celecoxib were mapped by the probe 6, including a binding site with PTGES. The binding interaction with PTGES was validated by competitive displacement with celecoxib and licofelone, which is a known PTGES inhibitor, and was used to generate a structural model of the interaction. The identification of photo-celecoxib interactions with membrane proteins, including the direct binding site on the membrane protein PTGES, will inform further functional followup and the design of new selective inhibitors of the prostaglandin signaling pathway.
PXD011909	31652310	Kinome Profiling Reveals Abnormal Activity of Kinases in Skeletal Muscle From Adults With Obesity and Insulin Resistance. 	Active kinome in human skeletal muscle insulin resistance	Active kinome, Human skeletal muscle, Insulin resistance, Protein kinase, Quantitative proteomics	CONTEXT: Obesity-related insulin resistance (OIR) is one of the main contributors to type 2 diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Protein kinases are implicated in insulin signaling and glucose metabolism. Molecular mechanisms underlying OIR involving global kinase activities remain incompletely understood. OBJECTIVE: To investigate abnormal kinase activity associated with OIR in human skeletal muscle. DESIGN: Utilization of stable isotopic labeling-based quantitative proteomics combined with affinity-based active enzyme probes to profile in vivo kinase activity in skeletal muscle from lean control (Lean) and OIR participants. PARTICIPANTS: A total of 16 nondiabetic adults, 8 Lean and 8 with OIR, underwent hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp with muscle biopsy. RESULTS: We identified the first active kinome, comprising 54 active protein kinases, in human skeletal muscle. The activities of 23 kinases were different in OIR muscle compared with Lean muscle (11 hyper- and 12 hypo-active), while their protein abundance was the same between the 2 groups. The activities of multiple kinases involved in adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and p38 signaling were lower in OIR compared with Lean. On the contrary, multiple kinases in the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway exhibited higher activity in OIR vs Lean. The kinase-substrate-prediction based on experimental data further confirmed a potential downregulation of insulin signaling (eg, inhibited phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 and AKT1/2). CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide a global view of the kinome activity in OIR and Lean muscle, pinpoint novel specific impairment in kinase activities in signaling pathways important for skeletal muscle insulin resistance, and may provide potential drug targets (ie, abnormal kinase activities) to prevent and/or reverse skeletal muscle insulin resistance in humans.
PXD013609	31652983	Protein Carbonylation in Patients with Myelodysplastic Syndrome: An Opportunity for Deferasirox Therapy. 	Oxidative stress in myelodysplastic syndromes	Myelodysplastic syndromes, carbonylation, deferasirox, oxidative stress	Control of oxidative stress in the bone marrow (BM) is key for maintaining the interplay between self-renewal, proliferation, and differentiation of hematopoietic cells. Breakdown of this regulation can lead to diseases characterized by BM failure such as the myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). To better understand the role of oxidative stress in MDS development, we compared protein carbonylation as an indicator of oxidative stress in the BM of patients with MDS and control subjects, and also patients with MDS under treatment with the iron chelator deferasirox (DFX). As expected, differences in the pattern of protein carbonylation were observed in BM samples between MDS patients and controls, with an increase in protein carbonylation in the former. Strikingly, patients under DFX treatment had lower levels of protein carbonylation in BM with respect to untreated patients. Proteomic analysis identified four proteins with high carbonylation levels in MDS BM cells. Finally, as oxidative stress-related signaling pathways can modulate the cell cycle through p53, we analyzed the expression of the p53 target gene p21 in BM cells, finding that it was significantly upregulated in patients with MDS and was significantly downregulated after DFX treatment. Overall, our results suggest that the fine-tuning of oxidative stress levels in the BM of patients with MDS might control malignant progression.
PXD015352	31653698	Protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type R (PTPRR) antagonizes the Wnt signaling pathway in ovarian cancer by dephosphorylating and inactivating beta-catenin. 	PTPRR interactome detection using PUP-IT (pupylation-based interaction tagging) Mass Spectrometry	lc-ms, ptprr	Despite a lack of mutations, accumulating evidence supports an important role for the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in ovarian tumorigenesis. However, the molecular mechanism that contributes to the aberrant activation of the Wnt signaling cascade in ovarian cancer has not been fully elucidated. Here, we found that protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type R (PTPRR) suppressed the activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in ovarian cancer. We performed an shRNA-based biochemical screen, which identified PTPRR as being responsible for tyrosine dephosphorylation of beta-catenin on Tyr-142, a key site controlling the transcriptional activity of beta-catenin. Of note, PTPRR was down-regulated in ovarian cancers, and ectopic PTPRR re-expression delayed ovarian cancer cell growth both in vitro and in vivo Using a proximity-based tagging system and RNA-Seq analysis, we identified a signaling nexus that includes PTPRR, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, E-cadherin, and AT-rich interaction domain 3C (ARID3C) in ovarian cancer. Immunohistochemistry staining of human samples further suggested that PTPRR expression is inversely correlated with disease prognosis. Collectively, our findings indicate that PTPRR functions as a tumor suppressor in ovarian cancer by dephosphorylating and inactivating beta-catenin. These results suggest that PTPRR expression might have utility as a prognostic marker for predicting overall survival.
PXD013501	31653714	An RNA guanine quadruplex regulated pathway to TRAIL-sensitization by DDX21. 	Human HEK293T Label-free proteomics	HEK293T, QExactive	DDX21 is a newly discovered RNA G-quadruplex (rG4) binding protein with no known biological rG4 targets. In this study we used label-free proteomic MS/MS to identify 26 proteins that are expressed at significantly different levels in cells expressing an rG4-binding deficient DDX21 (M4). MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013501. From this list we validate MAGED2 as a protein that is regulated by DDX21 through rG4 in its 5'-UTR. MAGED2 protein levels, but not mRNA levels, are reduced by half in cells expressing DDX21 M4. MAGED2 has a repressive effect on TRAIL-R2 expression that is relieved under these conditions, resulting in elevated TRAIL-R2 mRNA and protein in MCF-7 cells, rendering them sensitive to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. Our work identifies the role of DDX21 in regulation at the translational level through biologically relevant rG4 and shows that MAGED2 protein levels are regulated, at least in part, by the potential to form rG4 in their 5'-UTRs.
PXD015182	31653849	YTHDF1 links hypoxia adaptation and non-small cell lung cancer progression. 	YTHDF1 links hypoxia adaptation and non-small cell lung cancer progression	LC-MS/MS  TMT10plex	Hypoxia occurs naturally at high-altitudes and pathologically in hypoxic solid tumors. Here, we report that genes involved in various human cancers evolved rapidly in Tibetans and six Tibetan domestic mammals compared to reciprocal lowlanders. Furthermore, m(6)A modified mRNA binding protein YTHDF1, one of evolutionary positively selected genes for high-altitude adaptation is amplified in various cancers, including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We show that YTHDF1 deficiency inhibits NSCLC cell proliferation and xenograft tumor formation through regulating the translational efficiency of CDK2, CDK4, and cyclin D1, and that YTHDF1 depletion restrains de novo lung adenocarcinomas (ADC) progression. However, we observe that YTHDF1 high expression correlates with better clinical outcome, with its depletion rendering cancerous cells resistant to cisplatin (DDP) treatment. Mechanistic studies identified the Keap1-Nrf2-AKR1C1 axis as the downstream mediator of YTHDF1. Together, these findings highlight the critical role of YTHDF1 in both hypoxia adaptation and pathogenesis of NSCLC.
PXD014890	31653868	Regulation of the ER stress response by a mitochondrial microprotein. 	Regulation of the ER stress response by a mitochondrial microprotein	ER stress response, microprotein, mitochondrial, smORFs	Cellular homeostasis relies on having dedicated and coordinated responses to a variety of stresses. The accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a common stress that triggers a conserved pathway called the unfolded protein response (UPR) that mitigates damage, and dysregulation of UPR underlies several debilitating diseases. Here, we discover that a previously uncharacterized 54-amino acid microprotein PIGBOS regulates UPR. PIGBOS localizes to the mitochondrial outer membrane where it interacts with the ER protein CLCC1 at ER-mitochondria contact sites. Functional studies reveal that the loss of PIGBOS leads to heightened UPR and increased cell death. The characterization of PIGBOS reveals an undiscovered role for a mitochondrial protein, in this case a microprotein, in the regulation of UPR originating in the ER. This study demonstrates microproteins to be an unappreciated class of genes that are critical for inter-organelle communication, homeostasis, and cell survival.
PXD015508	31655121	Top-down mass spectrometry of histone modifications in sorghum reveals potential epigenetic markers for drought acclimation. 	Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Histone Modifications in Sorghum during Drought Acclimation	epigenetics, histone clipping, plant, post-translational modifications	Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] is an important cereal crop noted for its ability to survive water-limiting conditions. Herein, we present an analytical workflow to explore the changes in histone modifications through plant developmental stages and two drought stresses in two sorghum genotypes that differ in their response to drought. Top-down mass spectrometry (MS) is an ideal method to profile histone modifications and distinguish closely related histone proteoforms. We analyzed leaves of 48 plants and identified 26 unique histone proteins and 677 unique histone proteoforms (124 full-length and 553 truncated proteoforms). We detected trimethylation on nearly all H2B N-termini where acetylation is commonly expected. In addition, an unexpected modification on H2A histones was assigned to N-pyruvic acid 2-iminylation based on its unique neutral loss of CO2. Interestingly, some of the truncated histones, in particular H4 and H3.2, showed significant changes that correlated with the growth and water conditions. The histone proteoforms could serve as targets in search of chromatin modifiers and ultimately have important ramifications in future attempts of studying plant epigenetic reprogramming under stress.
PXD013113	31655292	H-Ras activation and fibroblast-induced TGF-beta signaling promote laminin-332 accumulation and invasion in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of 3D cultures of fibroblasts and Ras-transformed HaCaT keratinocytes	HRAS, HaCat, fibroblast keratinocyte	Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is the most common metastatic skin cancer, with increasing incidence worldwide. The molecular basis of cSCC progression to invasive and metastatic disease is still incompletely understood. Here, we show that fibroblasts and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling promote laminin-332 synthesis in cancer cells in an activated H-Ras-dependent manner, which in turn promotes cancer cell invasion. Immunohistochemical analysis of sporadic UV-induced invasive human cSCCs (n = 208) revealed prominent cSCC cell specific immunostaining for laminin-332 gamma2 chain, located in the majority of cases (90%, n = 173) in the invasive edge of the tumors. To mimic the progression of cSCC we established 3D spheroid cocultures using primary skin fibroblasts and HaCaT/ras-HaCaT human keratinocytes. Our results indicate that in 3D spheroids, unlike in monolayer cultures, TGF-beta upregulates laminin-332 production, but only in cells that harbour oncogenic H-Ras. Accumulation of laminin-332 was prevented by both H-Ras knock down and inhibition of TGF-beta signaling by SB431542 or RAdKD-ALK5 kinase-defective adenovirus. Furthermore, fibroblasts accelerated the invasion of ras-HaCaT cells through collagen I gels in a Ras/TGF-beta signaling dependent manner. In conclusion, we demonstrate the presence of laminin-332 in the invasive front of cSCC tumors and report a new Ras/TGF-beta-dependent mechanism that promotes laminin-332 accumulation and cancer cell invasion.
PXD015383	31655326	Quantitative proteomics analysis of membrane glucocorticoid receptor activation in rainbow trout skeletal muscle. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of Membrane Glucocorticoid Receptor Activation in Rainbow Trout Skeletal Muscle	Rainbow trout, membrane glucocorticoid receptor, skeletal muscle	Cortisol modulates energy metabolism promoting the mobilization of glucose and increasing proteolysis to overcome stressful situations in teleost. The cortisol metabolic effects are attributed to genomic mechanisms that involve the interaction of cortisol with its glucocorticoid intracellular receptor. Furthermore, cortisol can also interact with plasma membrane glucocorticoid receptors activating a rapid nongenomic signaling; however, its contribution during the early acute phase stress response in fish is unknown. In the present work, we evaluated the effects of membrane-initiated cortisol actions in vivo in the proteome of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) skeletal muscle. Quantitative iTRAQ analyses were performed to examine proteomic changes in rainbow trout stimulated with physiological concentrations of cortisol and cortisol-BSA, a membrane-impermeable cortisol conjugate. A total of 873 proteins were identified, among which 61 and 47 proteins were differentially expressed under cortisol and cortisol-BSA treatments, respectively. Functional clustering analysis revealed an upregulation of proteins associated with mitochondria and oxidative phosphorylation. These results were validated by Western blot analysis. Additionally, using rainbow trout myotubes, the participation of membrane glucocorticoid receptors in gene expression was evaluated. The results obtained suggest that cortisol acts through a membrane canonical glucocorticoid receptor and mediates the expression of proteins associated with mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation.
PXD014708	31657576	Proteomic Analysis of an Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell Model Reveals Strategies to Treat Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia. 	Proteomic analysis of an induced pluripotent stem cell model reveals strategies to treat Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukaemia	CBL0137, JMML, JQ1, Noonan syndrome, PTPN11	Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is an aggressive myeloproliferative neoplasm of early childhood with a poor survival rate, thus there is a requirement for improved treatment strategies. Induced pluripotent stem cells offer the ability to model disease and develop new treatment strategies. JMML is frequently associated with mutations in PTPN11. Children with Noonan syndrome, a development disorder, have an increased incidence of JMML associated with specific germline mutations in PTPN11. We undertook a proteomic assessment of myeloid cells derived from induced pluripotent stem cells obtained from Noonan syndrome patients with PTPN11 mutations, either associated or not associated with an increased incidence of JMML. We report that the proteomic perturbations induced by the leukemia-associated PTPN11 mutations are associated with TP53 and NF-Kkappab signaling. We have previously shown that MYC is involved in the differential gene expression observed in Noonan syndrome patients associated with an increased incidence of JMML. Thus, we employed drugs to target these pathways and demonstrate differential effects on clonogenic hematopoietic cells derived from Noonan syndrome patients, who develop JMML and those who do not. Further, we demonstrated these small molecular inhibitors, JQ1 and CBL0137, preferentially extinguish primitive hematopoietic cells from sporadic JMML patients as opposed to cells from healthy individuals.
PXD015196	31658409	The Cytotoxic Natural Product Vioprolide A Targets Nucleolar Protein 14, Which Is Essential for Ribosome Biogenesis. 	The cytotoxic natural product vioprolide A targets nucleolar protein 14 essential for ribosome biogenesis	AfBPP, LC-MS, Target identification, Thermal proteome profiling, co-IP, natural product	Novel targets are needed for treatment of devastating diseases such as cancer. For decades, natural products have guided innovative therapies by addressing diverse pathways. Inspired by the potent cytotoxic bioactivity of myxobacterial vioprolides A-D, we performed in-depth studies on their mode of action. Based on its prominent potency against human acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells, we conducted thermal proteome profiling (TPP) and deciphered the target proteins of the most active derivative vioprolide A (VioA) in Jurkat cells. Nucleolar protein 14 (NOP14), which is essential in ribosome biogenesis, was confirmed as a specific target of VioA by a suite of proteomic and biological follow-up experiments. Given its activity against ALL cells compared to healthy lymphocytes, VioA exhibits unique therapeutic potential for anticancer therapy through a novel mode of action.
PXD020432	31659120	Deletion of the middle region of the transcription factor ClrB in Penicillium oxalicum enables cellulase production in the presence of glucose. 	Identification of fungal secreted proteins	fungi	Enzymes that degrade lignocellulose to simple sugars are of great interest in research and for biotechnology because of their role in converting plant biomass to fuels and chemicals. The synthesis of cellulolytic enzymes in filamentous fungi is tightly regulated at the transcriptional level, with the transcriptional activator ClrB/CLR-2 playing a critical role in many species. In Penicillium oxalicum, clrB overexpression could not relieve the dependence of cellulase expression on cellulose as an inducer, suggesting that clrB is controlled post-transcriptionally. In this study, using a reporter gene system in yeast, we identified the C-terminal region of ClrB/CLR-2 as a transcriptional activation domain. Expression of clrB(ID) , encoding a ClrB derivative in which the DNA-binding and transcriptional activation domains are fused together to remove the middle region, led to cellulase production in the absence of cellulose in P. oxalicum Strikingly, the clrB(ID) -expressing strain produced cellulase on carbon sources that normally repress cellulase expression, including glucose and glycerol. Results from deletion of the carbon catabolite repressor gene creA in the clrB(ID) -expressing strain suggested that the effect of clrB(ID) is independent of CreA's repressive function. A similar modification of clrB in Aspergillus niger resulted in the production of a mannanase in glucose medium. Taken together, these results indicate that ClrB suppression under noninducing conditions involves its middle region, suggesting a potential strategy to engineer fungal strains for improved cellulase production on commonly used carbon sources.
PXD013504	31659149	Tunneling nanotube-mediated intercellular vesicle and protein transfer in the stroma-provided imatinib resistance in chronic myeloid leukemia cells. 	Tunneling nanotubes contribute to the stroma-mediated imatinib resistance of leukemic cells DID	LC-MS, QExatoive, bone marrow	Intercellular communication within the bone marrow niche significantly promotes leukemogenesis and provides protection of leukemic cells from therapy. Secreted factors, intercellular transfer of mitochondria and the receptor-ligand interactions have been shown as mediators of this protection. Here we report that tunneling nanotubes (TNTs)-long, thin membranous structures, which have been identified as a novel mode of intercellular cross-talk-are formed in the presence of stroma and mediate transfer of cellular vesicles from stroma to leukemic cells. Importantly, transmission of vesicles via TNTs from stromal cells increases resistance of leukemic cells to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, imatinib. Using correlative light-electron microscopy and electron tomography we show that stromal TNTs contain vesicles, provide membrane continuity with the cell bodies and can be open-ended. Moreover, trans-SILAC studies to reveal the non-autonomous proteome showed that specific sets of proteins are transferred together with cellular vesicles from stromal to leukemic cells, with a potential role in survival and adaptation. Altogether, our findings provide evidence for the biological role of the TNT-mediated vesicle exchange between stromal and leukemic cells, implicating the direct vesicle and protein transfer in the stroma-provided protection of leukemic cells.
PXD014475	31659197	Proteins and microRNAs are differentially expressed in tear fluid from patients with Alzheimer's disease. 	Proteins present in tears from control, MCI and Alzheimer disease patients	Tears	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a progressive loss of neurons and cognitive functions. Therefore, early diagnosis of AD is critical. The development of practical and non-invasive diagnostic tests for AD remains, however, an unmet need. In the present proof-of-concept study we investigated tear fluid as a novel source of disease-specific protein and microRNA-based biomarkers for AD development using samples from patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD. Tear protein content was evaluated via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and microRNA content was profiled using a genome-wide high-throughput PCR-based platform. These complementary approaches identified enrichment of specific proteins and microRNAs in tear fluid of AD patients. In particular, we identified elongation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) as a unique protein present only in AD samples. Total microRNA abundance was found to be higher in tears from AD patients. Among individual microRNAs, microRNA-200b-5p was identified as a potential biomarker for AD with elevated levels present in AD tear fluid samples compared to controls. Our study suggests that tears may be a useful novel source of biomarkers for AD and that the identification and verification of biomarkers within tears may allow for the development of a non-invasive and cost-effective diagnostic test for AD.
PXD015104	31659311	Expedited mapping of the ligandable proteome using fully functionalized enantiomeric probe pairs. 	Expedited mapping of the ligandable proteome using fully functionalized enantiomeric probe pairs	HEK293T, PBMCs	A fundamental challenge in chemical biology and medicine is to understand and expand the fraction of the human proteome that can be targeted by small molecules. We recently described a strategy that integrates fragment-based ligand discovery with chemical proteomics to furnish global portraits of reversible small-molecule/protein interactions in human cells. Excavating clear structure-activity relationships from these 'ligandability' maps, however, was confounded by the distinct physicochemical properties and corresponding overall protein-binding potential of individual fragments. Here, we describe a compelling solution to this problem by introducing a next-generation set of fully functionalized fragments differing only in absolute stereochemistry. Using these enantiomeric probe pairs, or 'enantioprobes', we identify numerous stereoselective protein-fragment interactions in cells and show that these interactions occur at functional sites on proteins from diverse classes. Our findings thus indicate that incorporating chirality into fully functionalized fragment libraries provides a robust and streamlined method to discover ligandable proteins in cells.
PXD014838	31659317	Uncoupling of PARP1 trapping and inhibition using selective PARP1 degradation. 	Uncoupling of PARP1 Trapping and Inhibition Using Selective PARP1 Degradation	PARP1 degradation, Primary Neonatal Rat Cardiomyocyte, iRucaparib, iRucaparib-TP5	PARP1 inhibitors (PARPi) are known to kill tumor cells via two mechanisms (PARP1 catalytic inhibition and PARP1 trapping). The relative contribution of these two pathways in mediating the cytotoxicity of PARPi, however, is not well understood. Here we designed a series of small molecule PARP degraders. Treatment with one such compound iRucaparib-AP6 results in highly efficient and specific PARP1 degradation. iRucaparib-AP6 blocks the enzymatic activity of PARP1 in vitro, and PARP1-mediated poly-ADP-ribosylation signaling in intact cells. This strategy mimics PARP1 genetic depletion, which enables the pharmacological decoupling of PARP1 inhibition from PARP1 trapping. Finally, by depleting PARP1, iRucaparib-AP6 protects muscle cells and primary cardiomyocytes from DNA-damage-induced energy crisis and cell death. In summary, these compounds represent 'non-trapping' PARP1 degraders that block both the catalytic activity and scaffolding effects of PARP1, providing an ideal approach for the amelioration of the various pathological conditions caused by PARP1 hyperactivation.
PXD010335	31659326	Biological plasticity rescues target activity in CRISPR knock outs. 	Biological Plasticity Rescues Target Activity in CRISPR Knock Outs	CRISPR-Cas9, HAP1	Gene knock outs (KOs) are efficiently engineered through CRISPR-Cas9-induced frameshift mutations. While the efficiency of DNA editing is readily verified by DNA sequencing, a systematic understanding of the efficiency of protein elimination has been lacking. Here we devised an experimental strategy combining RNA sequencing and triple-stage mass spectrometry to characterize 193 genetically verified deletions targeting 136 distinct genes generated by CRISPR-induced frameshifts in HAP1 cells. We observed residual protein expression for about one third of the quantified targets, at variable levels from low to original, and identified two causal mechanisms, translation reinitiation leading to N-terminally truncated target proteins or skipping of the edited exon leading to protein isoforms with internal sequence deletions. Detailed analysis of three truncated targets, BRD4, DNMT1 and NGLY1, revealed partial preservation of protein function. Our results imply that systematic characterization of residual protein expression or function in CRISPR-Cas9-generated KO lines is necessary for phenotype interpretation.
PXD014310	31660720	Egg White as a Quality Control in Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MALDI-MSI). 	Egg White as a quality control in MALDI Mass Spectrometry Imaging	Egg White, FFPE, Imaging, MALDI	The strength of MALDI-MSI is to analyze and visualize spatial intensities of molecular features from an intact tissue. The distribution of the intensities can then be visualized within a single tissue section or compared in between sections, acquired consecutively. This method can be reliably used to reveal physiological structures and has the potential to identify molecular details, which correlate with biological outcomes. MALDI-MSI implementation in clinical laboratories requires the ability to ensure method quality and validation to meet diagnostic expectations. To be able to get consistent qualitative and quantitative results, standardized sample preparation and data acquisition are of highest priority. We have previously shown that the deposition of internal standards onto the tissue section during sample preparation can be used to improve the mass accuracy of monitored m/z features across the sample. Here, we present the use of external and internal controls for the quality check of sample preparation and data acquisition, which is particularly relevant when either many spectra are acquired during a single MALDI-MSI experiment or data from independent experiments are processed together. To monitor detector performance and sample preparation, we use egg white as an external control for peptide and N-glycan MALDI-MSI throughout the experiment. We have also identified endogenous peptides from cytoskeletal proteins, which can be reliably monitored in gynecological tissue samples. Lastly, we summarize our standard quality control workflow designed to produce reliable and comparable MALDI-MSI data from single sections and tissue microarrays (TMAs).
PXD014187	31662437	The ribosome assembly factor Nop53 controls association of the RNA exosome with pre-60S particles in yeast. 	Effect of Nop53 depletion on the exosome interactome	Nop53, RNA exosome, Ribosome biogenesis, rRNA processing	Eukaryotic ribosomal biogenesis is a high-energy-demanding and complex process that requires hundreds of trans-acting factors to dynamically build the highly-organized 40S and 60S subunits. Each ribonucleoprotein complex comprises specific rRNAs and ribosomal proteins that are organized into functional domains. The RNA exosome complex plays a crucial role as one of the pre-60S-processing factors, because it is the RNase responsible for processing the 7S pre-rRNA to the mature 5.8S rRNA. The yeast pre-60S assembly factor Nop53 has previously been shown to associate with the nucleoplasmic pre-60S in a region containing the "foot" structure assembled around the 3' end of the 7S pre-rRNA. Nop53 interacts with 25S rRNA and with several 60S assembly factors, including the RNA exosome, specifically, with its catalytic subunit Rrp6 and with the exosome-associated RNA helicase Mtr4. Nop53 is therefore considered the adaptor responsible for recruiting the exosome complex for 7S processing. Here, using proteomics-based approaches in budding yeast to analyze the effects of Nop53 on the exosome interactome, we found that the exosome binds pre-ribosomal complexes early during the ribosome maturation pathway. We also identified interactions through which Nop53 modulates exosome activity in the context of 60S maturation and provide evidence that in addition to recruiting the exosome, Nop53 may also be important for positioning the exosome during 7S processing. On the basis of these findings, we propose that the exosome is recruited much earlier during ribosome assembly than previously thought, suggesting the existence of additional interactions that remain to be described.
PXD010082	31662455	Bacterial Pathogens Hijack the Innate Immune Response by Activation of the Reverse Transsulfuration Pathway. 	Macrophage Responses to Helicobacter pylori	Helicobacter pylori, immune response, macrophages	The reverse transsulfuration pathway is the major route for the metabolism of sulfur-containing amino acids. The role of this metabolic pathway in macrophage response and function is unknown. We show that the enzyme cystathionine gamma-lyase (CTH) is induced in macrophages infected with pathogenic bacteria through signaling involving phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/MTOR and the transcription factor SP1. This results in the synthesis of cystathionine, which facilitates the survival of pathogens within myeloid cells. Our data demonstrate that the expression of CTH leads to defective macrophage activation by (i) dysregulation of polyamine metabolism by depletion of S-adenosylmethionine, resulting in immunosuppressive putrescine accumulation and inhibition of spermidine and spermine synthesis, and (ii) increased histone H3K9, H3K27, and H3K36 di/trimethylation, which is associated with gene expression silencing. Thus, CTH is a pivotal enzyme of the innate immune response that disrupts host defense. The induction of the reverse transsulfuration pathway by bacterial pathogens can be considered an unrecognized mechanism for immune escape.IMPORTANCE Macrophages are professional immune cells that ingest and kill microbes. In this study, we show that different pathogenic bacteria induce the expression of cystathionine gamma-lyase (CTH) in macrophages. This enzyme is involved in a metabolic pathway called the reverse transsulfuration pathway, which leads to the production of numerous metabolites, including cystathionine. Phagocytized bacteria use cystathionine to better survive in macrophages. In addition, the induction of CTH results in dysregulation of the metabolism of polyamines, which in turn dampens the proinflammatory response of macrophages. In conclusion, pathogenic bacteria can evade the host immune response by inducing CTH in macrophages.
PXD014008	31662474	A MYC2/MYC3/MYC4-dependent transcription factor network regulates water spray-responsive gene expression and jasmonate levels. 	A MYC2, MYC3, MYC4-dependent transcription factor network regulates touch responses in plants	MYC2, touch respose	Mechanical stimuli, such as wind, rain, and touch affect plant development, growth, pest resistance, and ultimately reproductive success. Using water spray to simulate rain, we demonstrate that jasmonic acid (JA) signaling plays a key role in early gene-expression changes, well before it leads to developmental changes in flowering and plant architecture. The JA-activated transcription factors MYC2/MYC3/MYC4 modulate transiently induced expression of 266 genes, most of which peak within 30 min, and control 52% of genes induced >100-fold. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing analysis indicates that MYC2 dynamically binds >1,300 promoters and trans-activation assays show that MYC2 activates these promoters. By mining our multiomic datasets, we identified a core MYC2/MYC3/MYC4-dependent "regulon" of 82 genes containing many previously unknown MYC2 targets, including transcription factors bHLH19 and ERF109 bHLH19 can in turn directly activate the ORA47 promoter, indicating that MYC2/MYC3/MYC4 initiate a hierarchical network of downstream transcription factors. Finally, we also reveal that rapid water spray-induced accumulation of JA and JA-isoleucine is directly controlled by MYC2/MYC3/MYC4 through a positive amplification loop that regulates JA-biosynthesis genes.
PXD044574	31663850	Kv2.1 mediates spatial and functional coupling of L-type calcium channels and ryanodine receptors in mammalian neurons. 	Kv2.1 IP dataset On_BeadMK8_2018	brain, crosslinked, immunopurified	The voltage-gated K(+) channel Kv2.1 serves a major structural role in the soma and proximal dendrites of mammalian brain neurons, tethering the plasma membrane (PM) to endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Although Kv2.1 clustering at neuronal ER-PM junctions (EPJs) is tightly regulated and highly conserved, its function remains unclear. By identifying and evaluating proteins in close spatial proximity to Kv2.1-containing EPJs, we discovered that a significant role of Kv2.1 at EPJs is to promote the clustering and functional coupling of PM L-type Ca(2+) channels (LTCCs) to ryanodine receptor (RyR) ER Ca(2+) release channels. Kv2.1 clustering also unexpectedly enhanced LTCC opening at polarized membrane potentials. This enabled Kv2.1-LTCC-RyR triads to generate localized Ca(2+) release events (i.e., Ca(2+) sparks) independently of action potentials. Together, these findings uncover a novel mode of LTCC regulation and establish a unique mechanism whereby Kv2.1-associated EPJs provide a molecular platform for localized somatodendritic Ca(2+) signals in mammalian brain neurons.
PXD014561	31665227	Phosphoproteomics reveals that the hVPS34 regulated SGK3 kinase specifically phosphorylates endosomal proteins including Syntaxin-7, Syntaxin-12, RFIP4 and WDR44. 	Identification of Syntaxin 7 and 12 as the first selective substrates for SGK3	Phosphoprpteomis, SGK3, STX7 and STX12	The serum- and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase (SGK) isoforms contribute resistance to cancer therapies targeting the PI3K pathway. SGKs are homologous to Akt and these kinases display overlapping specificity and phosphorylate several substrates at the same residues, such as TSC2 to promote tumor growth by switching on the mTORC1 pathway. The SGK3 isoform is up-regulated in breast cancer cells treated with PI3K or Akt inhibitors and recruited and activated at endosomes, through its phox homology domain binding to PtdIns(3)P. We undertook genetic and pharmacological phosphoproteomic screens to uncover novel SGK3 substrates. We identified 40 potential novel SGK3 substrates, including four endosomal proteins STX7 (Ser126) and STX12 (Ser139), RFIP4 (Ser527) and WDR44 (Ser346) that were efficiently phosphorylated in vitro by SGK3 at the sites identified in vivo, but poorly by Akt. We demonstrate that these substrates are inefficiently phosphorylated by Akt as they possess an n + 1 residue from the phosphorylation site that is unfavorable for Akt phosphorylation. Phos-tag analysis revealed that stimulation of HEK293 cells with IGF1 to activate SGK3, promoted phosphorylation of a significant fraction of endogenous STX7 and STX12, in a manner that was blocked by knock-out of SGK3 or treatment with a pan SGK inhibitor (14H). SGK3 phosphorylation of STX12 enhanced interaction with the VAMP4/VTI1A/STX6 containing the SNARE complex and promoted plasma membrane localization. Our data reveal novel substrates for SGK3 and suggest a mechanism by which STX7 and STX12 SNARE complexes are regulated by SGK3. They reveal new biomarkers for monitoring SGK3 pathway activity.
PXD013748	31665510	Molecular Diversification of the Seminal Fluid Proteome in a Recently Diverged Passerine Species Pair. 	Sparrow seminal fluid diversification -MS/MS	bird, seminal fluid, sparrow	Seminal fluid proteins (SFPs) mediate an array of postmating reproductive processes that influence fertilization and fertility. As such, it is widely held that SFPs may contribute to postmating, prezygotic reproductive barriers between closely related taxa. We investigated seminal fluid (SF) diversification in a recently diverged passerine species pair (Passer domesticus and Passer hispaniolensis) using a combination of proteomic and comparative evolutionary genomic approaches. First, we characterized and compared the SF proteome of the two species, revealing consistencies with known aspects of SFP biology and function in other taxa, including the presence and diversification of proteins involved in immunity and sperm maturation. Second, using whole-genome resequencing data, we assessed patterns of genomic differentiation between house and Spanish sparrows. These analyses detected divergent selection on immunity-related SF genes and positive selective sweeps in regions containing a number of SF genes that also exhibited protein abundance diversification between species. Finally, we analyzed the molecular evolution of SFPs across 11 passerine species and found a significantly higher rate of positive selection in SFPs compared with the rest of the genome, as well as significant enrichments for functional pathways related to immunity in the set of positively selected SF genes. Our results suggest that selection on immunity pathways is an important determinant of passerine SF composition and evolution. Assessing the role of immunity genes in speciation in other recently diverged taxa should be prioritized given the potential role for immunity-related proteins in reproductive incompatibilities in Passer sparrows.
PXD004193	31665645	Systematic Discovery of Endogenous Human Ribonucleoprotein Complexes. 	A compendium of RNA-binding proteins that regulate microRNA biogenesis	RNA-protein interaction, microRNA	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play essential roles in biology and are frequently associated with human disease. Although recent studies have systematically identified individual RNA-binding proteins, their higher-order assembly into ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes has not been systematically investigated. Here, we describe a proteomics method for systematic identification of RNP complexes in human cells. We identify 1,428 protein complexes that associate with RNA, indicating that more than 20% of known human protein complexes contain RNA. To explore the role of RNA in the assembly of each complex, we identify complexes that dissociate, change composition, or form stable protein-only complexes in the absence of RNA. We use our method to systematically identify cell-type-specific RNA-associated proteins in mouse embryonic stem cells and finally, distribute our resource, rna.MAP, in an easy-to-use online interface (rna.proteincomplexes.org). Our system thus provides a methodology for explorations across human tissues, disease states, and throughout all domains of life.
PXD014833	31666027	The olfactory secretome varies according to season in female sheep and goat. 	The olfactory secretome varies according to season in female sheep and goat	olfactory secretome, reproduction, seasonality, ungulates	BACKGROUND: Small ungulates (sheep and goat) display a seasonal breeding, characterised by two successive periods, sexual activity (SA) and sexual rest (SR). Odours emitted by a sexually active male can reactivate the ovulatory cycle of anoestrus females. The plasticity of the olfactory system under these hormonal changes has never been explored at the peripheral level of odours reception. As it was shown in pig that the olfactory secretome (proteins secreted in the nasal mucus) could be modified under hormonal control, we monitored its composition in females of both species through several reproductive seasons, thanks to a non-invasive sampling of olfactory mucus. For this purpose, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2D-E), western-blot with specific antibodies, MALDI-TOF and high-resolution (nano-LC-MS/MS) mass spectrometry, RACE-PCR and molecular modelling were used. RESULTS: In both species the olfactory secretome is composed of isoforms of OBP-like proteins, generated by post-translational modifications, as phosphorylation, N-glycosylation and O-GlcNAcylation. Important changes were observed in the olfactory secretome between the sexual rest and the sexual activity periods, characterised in ewe by the specific expression of SAL-like proteins and the emergence of OBPs O-GlcNAcylation. In goat, the differences between SA and SR did not come from new proteins expression, but from different post-translational modifications, the main difference between the SA and SR secretome being the number of isoforms of each protein. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014833. CONCLUSION: Despite common behaviour, seasonal breeding, and genetic resources, the two species seem to adapt their olfactory equipment in SA by different modalities: the variation of olfactory secretome in ewe could correspond to a specialization to detect male odours only in SA, whereas in goat the stability of the olfactory secretome could indicate a constant capacity of odours detection suggesting that the hallmark of SA in goat might be the emission of specific odours by the sexually active male. In both species, the olfactory secretome is a phenotype reflecting the physiological status of females, and could be used by breeders to monitor their receptivity to the male effect.
PXD013706	31666358	The Mitochondrial Acyl-carrier Protein Interaction Network Highlights Important Roles for LYRM Family Members in Complex I and Mitoribosome Assembly. 	The mitochondrial acyl-carrier protein interaction network highlights important roles for LYRM family members in complex I and mitoribosome assembly	AP-MS, LC-MS, LYR motif, NDUFAB1, mitochondria, mitoribosome, respirastory chain, topographical heatmap	NDUFAB1 is the mitochondrial acyl carrier protein (ACP) essential for cell viability. Through its pantetheine-4'-phosphate post-translational modification, NDUFAB1 interacts with members of the leucine-tyrosine-arginine motif (LYRM) protein family. Although several LYRM proteins have been described to participate in a variety of defined processes, the functions of others remain either partially or entirely unknown. We profiled the interaction network of NDUFAB1 to reveal associations with 9 known LYRM proteins as well as more than 20 other proteins involved in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex and mitochondrial ribosome assembly. Subsequent knockout and interaction network studies in human cells revealed the LYRM member AltMiD51 to be important for optimal assembly of the large mitoribosome subunit, consistent with recent structural studies. In addition, we used proteomics coupled with topographical heat-mapping to reveal that knockout of LYRM2 impairs assembly of the NADH-dehydrogenase module of complex I, leading to defects in cellular respiration. Together, this work adds to the catalogue of functions executed by LYRM family of proteins in building mitochondrial complexes and emphasizes the common and essential role of NDUFAB1 as a protagonist in mitochondrial metabolism.
PXD014282	31666700	Structure of the Fanconi anaemia monoubiquitin ligase complex. 	Structure of the Fanconi anaemia monoubiquitin ligase complex	CLMS, EM, Electron microscopy, Fanconi anemia monoubiquitin ligase, crosslinking MS	The Fanconi anaemia (FA) pathway repairs DNA damage caused by endogenous and chemotherapy-induced DNA crosslinks, and responds to replication stress(1,2). Genetic inactivation of this pathway by mutation of genes encoding FA complementation group (FANC) proteins impairs development, prevents blood production and promotes cancer(1,3). The key molecular step in the FA pathway is the monoubiquitination of a pseudosymmetric heterodimer of FANCD2-FANCI(4,5) by the FA core complex-a megadalton multiprotein E3 ubiquitin ligase(6,7). Monoubiquitinated FANCD2 then recruits additional protein factors to remove the DNA crosslink or to stabilize the stalled replication fork. A molecular structure of the FA core complex would explain how it acts to maintain genome stability. Here we reconstituted an active, recombinant FA core complex, and used cryo-electron microscopy and mass spectrometry to determine its structure. The FA core complex comprises two central dimers of the FANCB and FA-associated protein of 100 kDa (FAAP100) subunits, flanked by two copies of the RING finger subunit, FANCL. These two heterotrimers act as a scaffold to assemble the remaining five subunits, resulting in an extended asymmetric structure. Destabilization of the scaffold would disrupt the entire complex, resulting in a non-functional FA pathway. Thus, the structure provides a mechanistic basis for the low numbers of patients with mutations in FANCB, FANCL and FAAP100. Despite a lack of sequence homology, FANCB and FAAP100 adopt similar structures. The two FANCL subunits are in different conformations at opposite ends of the complex, suggesting that each FANCL has a distinct role. This structural and functional asymmetry of dimeric RING finger domains may be a general feature of E3 ligases. The cryo-electron microscopy structure of the FA core complex provides a foundation for a detailed understanding of its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and DNA interstrand crosslink repair.
PXD014087	31666928	ERO1alpha promotes hypoxic tumor progression and is associated with poor prognosis in pancreatic cancer. 	Proteomics analysis of pancreatic cancer cell line (MiaPaCa-2)	pancreatic cell line	Pancreatic cancer is a leading cause of mortality worldwide due to the difficulty of detecting early-stage disease and our poor understanding of the mediators that drive progression of hypoxic solid tumors. We therefore used a heavy isotope 'pulse/trace' proteomic approach to determine how hypoxia (Hx) alters pancreatic tumor expression of proteins that confer treatment resistance, promote metastasis, and suppress host immunity. Using this method, we identified that hypoxia stress stimulates pancreatic cancer cells to rapidly translate proteins that enhance metastasis (NOTCH2, NCS1, CD151, NUSAP1), treatment resistance (ABCB6), immune suppression (NFIL3, WDR4), angiogenesis (ANGPT4, ERO1alpha, FOS), alter cell metabolic activity (HK2, ENO2), and mediate growth-promoting cytokine responses (CLK3, ANGPTL4). Database mining confirmed that elevated gene expression of these hypoxia-induced mediators is significantly associated with poor patient survival in various stages of pancreatic cancer. Among these proteins, the oxidoreductase enzyme ERO1alpha was highly sensitive to induction by hypoxia stress across a range of different pancreatic cancer cell lines and was associated with particularly poor prognosis in human patients. Consistent with these data, genetic deletion of ERO1alpha substantially reduced growth rates and colony formation by pancreatic cancer cells when assessed in a series of functional assays in vitro. Accordingly, when transferred into a mouse xenograft model, ERO1alpha-deficient tumor cells exhibited severe growth restriction and negligible disease progression in vivo. Together, these data indicate that ERO1alpha is potential prognostic biomarker and novel drug target for pancreatic cancer therapy.
PXD014090	31666961	New insights into the heat responses of grape leaves via combined phosphoproteomic and acetylproteomic analyses. 	New Insights into Heat Responses in Grape Leaves through Combined Phosphoproteomic and Acetylproteomic Analyses	acetylproteome, grape, heat, phosphoproteome	Heat stress is a serious and widespread threat to the quality and yield of many crop species, including grape (Vitis vinifera L.), which is cultivated worldwide. Here, we conducted phosphoproteomic and acetylproteomic analyses of leaves of grape plants cultivated under four distinct temperature regimes. The phosphorylation or acetylation of a total of 1011 phosphoproteins with 1828 phosphosites and 96 acetyl proteins with 148 acetyl sites changed when plants were grown at 35 degreesC, 40 degreesC, and 45 degreesC in comparison with the proteome profiles of plants grown at 25 degreesC. The greatest number of changes was observed at the relatively high temperatures. Functional classification and enrichment analysis indicated that phosphorylation, rather than acetylation, of serine/arginine-rich splicing factors was involved in the response to high temperatures. This finding is congruent with previous observations by which alternative splicing events occurred more frequently in grapevine under high temperature. Changes in acetylation patterns were more common than changes in phosphorylation patterns in photosynthesis-related proteins at high temperatures, while heat-shock proteins were associated more with modifications involving phosphorylation than with those involving acetylation. Nineteen proteins were identified with changes associated with both phosphorylation and acetylation, which is consistent with crosstalk between these posttranslational modification types.
PXD014918	31667593	Predominant cleavage of proteins N-terminal to serines and threonines using scandium(III) triflate. 	ScandiumIII                   .	Endoproteinase, Lewis acid, Scandium(III) triflate, protein cleavage	Proteolytic digestion prior to LC-MS analysis is a key step for the identification of proteins. Digestion of proteins is typically performed with trypsin, but certain proteins or important protein sequence regions might be missed using this endoproteinase. Only few alternative endoproteinases are available and chemical cleavage of proteins is rarely used. Recently, it has been reported that some metal complexes can act as artificial proteases. In particular, the Lewis acid scandium(III) triflate has been shown to catalyze the cleavage of peptide bonds to serine and threonine residues. Therefore, we investigated if this compound can also be used for the cleavage of proteins. For this purpose, several single proteins, the 20S immune-proteasome (17 proteins), and the Universal Proteomics Standard UPS1 (48 proteins) were analyzed by MALDI-MS and/or LC-MS. A high cleavage specificity N-terminal to serine and threonine residues was observed, but also additional peptides with deviating cleavage specificity were found. Scandium(III) triflate can be a useful tool in protein analysis as no other reagent has been reported yet which showed cleavage specificity within proteins to serines and threonines.
PXD014019	31667643	Cancer-associated fibroblast-derived WNT2 increases tumor angiogenesis in colon cancer. 	Cancer associated fibroblast-derived WNT2 increases tumor angiogenesis in colon cancer	Angiogenesis, Colon cancer, HUVEC, Tumor stroma, WNT2, cancer associated fibroblasts	WNT2 acts as a pro-angiogenic factor in placental vascularization and increases angiogenesis in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (ECs) and other ECs. Increased WNT2 expression is detectable in many carcinomas and participates in tumor progression. In human colorectal cancer (CRC), WNT2 is selectively elevated in cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), leading to increased invasion and metastasis. However, if there is a role for WNT2 in colon cancer, angiogenesis was not addressed so far. We demonstrate that WNT2 enhances EC migration/invasion, while it induces canonical WNT signaling in a small subset of cells. Knockdown of WNT2 in CAFs significantly reduced angiogenesis in a physiologically relevant assay, which allows precise assessment of key angiogenic properties. In line with these results, expression of WNT2 in otherwise WNT2-devoid skin fibroblasts led to increased angiogenesis. In CRC xenografts, WNT2 overexpression resulted in enhanced vessel density and tumor volume. Moreover, WNT2 expression correlates with vessel markers in human CRC. Secretome profiling of CAFs by mass spectrometry and cytokine arrays revealed that proteins associated with pro-angiogenic functions are elevated by WNT2. These included extracellular matrix molecules, ANG-2, IL-6, G-CSF, and PGF. The latter three increased angiogenesis. Thus, stromal-derived WNT2 elevates angiogenesis in CRC by shifting the balance towards pro-angiogenic signals.
PXD012531	31668496	The NADH Dehydrogenase Nde1 Executes Cell Death after Integrating Signals from Metabolism and Proteostasis on the Mitochondrial Surface. 	The yeast AIF homolog Nde1 integrates metabolic and proteostatic signals on the mitochondrial surface and executes cell death	Apoptosis, Mitochondria, Nde1, Protein Turnover	The proteolytic turnover of mitochondrial proteins is poorly understood. Here, we used a combination of dynamic isotope labeling and mass spectrometry to gain a global overview of mitochondrial protein turnover in yeast cells. Intriguingly, we found an exceptionally high turnover of the NADH dehydrogenase, Nde1. This homolog of the mammalian apoptosis inducing factor, AIF, forms two distinct topomers in mitochondria, one residing in the intermembrane space while the other spans the outer membrane and is exposed to the cytosol. The surface-exposed topomer triggers cell death in response to pro-apoptotic stimuli. The surface-exposed topomer is degraded by the cytosolic proteasome/Cdc48 system and the mitochondrial protease Yme1; however, it is strongly enriched in respiratory-deficient cells. Our data suggest that in addition to their role in electron transfer, mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenases such as Nde1 or AIF integrate signals from energy metabolism and cytosolic proteostasis to eliminate compromised cells from growing populations.
PXD014506	31668663	N-WASP Control of LPAR1 Trafficking Establishes Response to Self-Generated LPA Gradients to Promote Pancreatic Cancer Cell Metastasis. 	Chemotaxis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma metastasis: An unexpected role of N-WASP in response of cells to self-generated gradients and LPA receptor trafficking	Pancreatic cancer metastasis, cancer cell signalling, cancer invasion, cell migration, chemotaxis, receptor trafficking	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is one of the most invasive and metastatic cancers and has a dismal 5-year survival rate. We show that N-WASP drives pancreatic cancer metastasis, with roles in both chemotaxis and matrix remodeling. lysophosphatidic acid, a signaling lipid abundant in blood and ascites fluid, is both a mitogen and chemoattractant for cancer cells. Pancreatic cancer cells break lysophosphatidic acid down as they respond to it, setting up a self-generated gradient driving tumor egress. N-WASP-depleted cells do not recognize lysophosphatidic acid gradients, leading to altered RhoA activation, decreased contractility and traction forces, and reduced metastasis. We describe a signaling loop whereby N-WASP and the endocytic adapter SNX18 promote lysophosphatidic acid-induced RhoA-mediated contractility and force generation by controlling lysophosphatidic acid receptor recycling and preventing degradation. This chemotactic loop drives collagen remodeling, tumor invasion, and metastasis and could be an important target against pancreatic cancer spread.
PXD015245	31669255	Time-resolved phosphoproteomic analysis elucidates hepatic 11,12-Epoxyeicosatrienoic acid signaling pathways. 	Time-resolved Phosphoproteomic Analysis Elucidates Hepatic 11,12-Epoxyeicosatrienoic Acid Signaling Pathways	AKT/mTOR/p70S6K pathway, Eicosanoids, Lipid Signaling, TiO2	Epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) are potent lipid mediators with well-established effects in vascular tissues. Recent studies indicated an emerging role of these eicosanoids in metabolic diseases and the EET signaling pathway was shown to be involved in hepatic insulin sensitivity. However, compared to vascular tissues, there is only limited knowledge about the underlying signaling pathways in the liver. Therefore, we employed an LC-MS/MS-based time-resolved phosphoproteomics approach to characterize 11,12-EET-mediated signaling events in the liver cell line Hepa 1-6. 11,12-EET treatment resulted in the time-dependent regulation of phosphopeptides involved in processes as yet unknown to be affected by EETs, including RNA processing, splicing and translation regulation. Pathway analysis combined with western blot-based validation revealed enhanced AKT/mTOR/p70S6K signaling as demonstrated by increased acute phosphorylation of AKT (Ser473) and p70S6K (Thr389). In addition, 11,12-EET treatment led to differential regulation of phosphopeptides including important mediators of the DNA damage response and we observed a prolonged induction of the etoposide-induced DNA damage marker gammaH2AX in response to 11,12-EET. In summary, our findings extend current knowledge of 11,12-EET signaling events and emphasize the importance of the AKT/mTOR/p70S6K pathway in hepatic 11,12-EET signaling. Based on the results presented in this study, we furthermore propose a novel role of EET signaling in the regulation of the DNA damage response.
PXD014431	31669357	iTRAQ-based proteomic analyses of the plant-pathogenic bacterium Acidovorax citrulli during entrance into and resuscitation from the viable but nonculturable state. 	iTRAQ-based Proteomic Analyses of the Plant-pathogenic Bacterium Acidovorax citrulli during the Viable but Nonculturable State and Resuscitation Process	Acidovorax citrulli, VBNC, iTRAQ, resuscitation, viable but nonculturable state	Acidovorax citrulli, the causal agent of bacterial fruit blotch (BFB) disease, infects cucurbit crops including watermelon and melon. This bacterium can enter the viable but nonculturable (VBNC) state following exposure to copper sulfate. Moreover, copper-induced VBNC A. citrulli cells can be resuscitated by EDTA. In this study, isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) was used to compare protein profiles of VBNC cells, resuscitated cells at different stages and log-phase cells of the A. citrulli model strain AAC00-1. A total of 2672 proteins were identified, with 60 being differentially abundant in VBNC cells compared with log-phase cells, and 469 being differentially abundant in resuscitated cells compared with VBNC cells. Proteins involved in the arginine and proline metabolism pathway and degradation of aromatic compounds could be important for the VBNC cells. In the early resuscitation process, proteins associated with carbon metabolism, and degradation of naphthalene and aromatic compounds were significantly enriched, while proteins involved in oxidative phosphorylation, bacterial chemotaxis, ABC transporters and quorum sensing were significantly enriched at the late resuscitation stages. This is the first study reporting thorough protein profile analyses of VBNC and resuscitating cells of a plant-pathogenic bacterium. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The VBNC state is a dormant-like condition that was reported to occur in many bacterial species, upon facing a variety of environmental stresses. Acidovorax citrulli is a seed borne pathogenic bacterium that threatens cucurbit production worldwide. Moreover, A. citrulli can enter into the VBNC state after treatment of copper sulfate, thus increasing its survival and dissemination probabilities. This study enriches our understanding of the mechanisms of entrance into and resuscitation from the VBNC state of this important plant-pathogenic bacterium. This knowledge could be exploited in the future to develop novel approaches to interfere with these processes, thus contributing to a more efficient management of this pathogen. In a broader perspective, the knowledge emerging from this study has implications to the general understanding of the VBNC state in bacteria.
PXD002958	31669413	Palmitoyl Acyltransferase Activity of ZDHHC13 Regulates Skin Barrier Development Partly by Controlling PADi3 and TGM1 Protein Stability. 	Mouse Skin LC-MS/MS           .	Mouse Skin tissue, palmitoylation	Deficiency of the palmitoyl-acyl transferase ZDHHC13 compromises skin barrier permeability and renders mice susceptible to environmental bacterial infection and inflammatory dermatitis. It had been unclear how the lack of ZDHHC13 proteins resulted in cutaneous abnormalities. In this study, we first demonstrate that enzymatic palmitoylation activity, rather than protein scaffolding, by ZDHHC13 is essential for skin barrier integrity, showing that knock-in mice bearing an enzymatically dead DQ-to-AA ZDHHC13 mutation lost their hair after weaning cyclically, recapitulating knockout phenotypes of skin inflammation and dermatitis. To establish the ZDHHC13 substrates responsible for skin barrier development, we employed quantitative proteomic approaches to identify protein molecules whose palmitoylation is tightly controlled by ZDHHC13. We identified over 300 candidate proteins that could be classified into four biological categories: immunological disease, skin development and function, dermatological disease, and lipid metabolism. Palmitoylation of three of these candidates-loricrin, peptidyl arginine deiminase type III, and keratin fiber crosslinker transglutaminase 1-by ZDHHC13 was confirmed by biochemical assay. Palmitoylation was critical for in vivo protein stability of the latter two candidates. Our findings reveal the importance of protein palmitoylation in skin barrier development, partly by promoting envelope protein crosslinking and the filaggrin processing pathway.
PXD015031	31671511	Label-Free Quantitative Acetylome Analysis Reveals Toxoplasma gondii Genotype-Specific Acetylomic Signatures. 	Label-free Quantitative Acetylomics Revealed Toxoplasma gondii Genotype-Specific Acetylome Signatures	Acetylation, Genotype, Label-free, Tachyzoite, Toxoplasma gondii	Distinct genotypic and pathogenic differences exist between Toxoplasma gondii genotypes. For example, genotype I is highly virulent, whereas genotype II and genotype III are less virulent. Moreover, Chinese 1 genotype (ToxoDB#9) is also virulent. Here, we compare the acetylomes of genotype 1 (RH strain) and Chinese 1 genotype (ToxoDB#9, PYS strain) of T. gondii. Using mass spectrometry enriched for acetylated peptides, we found a relationship between the levels of protein acetylation and parasite genotype-specific virulence. Notably, lysine acetylation was the largest (458 acetylated proteins) in RH strain, followed by PYS strain (188 acetylated proteins), whereas only 115 acetylated proteins were detected in PRU strain. Our analysis revealed four, three, and four motifs in RH strain, PRU strain and PYS strain, respectively. Three conserved sequences around acetylation sites, namely, xxxxxK(Ac)Hxxxx, xxxxxK(Ac)Fxxxx, and xxxxGK(Ac)Sxxxx, were detected in the acetylome of the three strains. However, xxxxxK(Ac)Nxxxx (asparagine) was found in RH and PYS strains but was absent in PRU strain. Our analysis also identified 15, 3, and 26 differentially expressed acetylated proteins in RH strain vs. PRU strain, PRU strain vs. PYS strain and PYS strain vs. RH strain, respectively. KEGG pathway analysis showed that a large proportion of the acetylated proteins are involved in metabolic processes. Pathways for the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, biosynthesis of antibiotics and microbial metabolism in diverse environments were featured in the top five enriched pathways in all three strains. However, acetylated proteins from the virulent strains (RH and PYS) were more enriched in the pyruvate metabolism pathway compared to acetylated proteins from PRU strain. Increased levels of histone-acetyl-transferase and glycyl-tRNA synthase were detected in RH strain compared to PRU strain and PYS strain. Both enzymes play roles in stress tolerance and proliferation, key features in the parasite virulence. These findings reveal novel insight into the acetylomic profiles of major T. gondii genotypes and provide a new important resource for further investigations of the roles of the acetylated parasite proteins in the modulation of the host cell response to the infection of T. gondii.
PXD022592	31672577	Targeted depletion of monocyte/macrophage suppresses aortic dissection with the spatial regulation of MMP-9 in the aorta. 	Targeted Depletion of Monocyte/Macrophage Suppresses Aortic Dissection with the Spatial Regulation of MMP-9 in the Aorta	MMP-9, aortic dissection, inflammation, macrophages, monocytes	AIM: Aortic dissection (AD) is a devastating disease with rapid progression and high mortality, while the initiation mechanism of AD is far from clear. MAIN METHODS: AD was established by feeding mice with beta-aminopropionitrile in the diet and usage of angiotensin II (AngII) to trigger the rupture of aorta. LysM(iDTR) mice were constructed by crossing of LysM-Cre mice with ROSA26(iDTR) mice and characterized by diphtheria toxin receptor (DTR) expression in monocytes/macrophages specifically. Then, monocyte/macrophage depletion in LysM(iDTR) mice was conducted to evaluate the function of monocyte/macrophage in AD. Finally, the underlying mechanism was elucidated by proteomics, Western blot analysis, immunofluorescence staining and bioinformatics analysis. KEY FINDINGS: First, we detected T lymphocytes, macrophages and neutrophils infiltrated into the aorta simultaneously when AD occurred, and macrophages were the most abundant cell type. Then, targeted depletion of monocyte/macrophage in LysM(iDTR) mice considerably inhibited the occurrence of AD and infiltration of T lymphocytes and neutrophils. Furthermore, monocyte transfusion into LysM(iDTR) mice augmented the rupture of aorta, jointly supporting the key roles of monocytes/macrophages in AD development. Mechanistically, a total of 347 proteins exhibited significant differences in intensity after monocyte/macrophage depletion according to quantitative mass spectrometry. Specifically, increased matrix metalloprotein-9 (MMP-9) level in AD may be of concern due to its functions in vascular remodeling. The infiltration of macrophages considerably up-regulated MMP-9, and MMP-9 co-localized with macrophages at the tearing area of aorta. SIGNIFICANCE: Macrophages infiltrated into the tear sites of the aortic wall, regulated extracellular remodeling pathway, functioned as initiators to switch on the occurrence of AD.
PXD015686	31672986	De novo synthesized Min proteins drive oscillatory liposome deformation and regulate FtsA-FtsZ cytoskeletal patterns. 	Min protein in vitro protein expression kinetics	CFPS, MRM, Min system, SRM, in vitro gene expression	The Min biochemical network regulates bacterial cell division and is a prototypical example of self-organizing molecular systems. Cell-free assays relying on purified proteins have shown that MinE and MinD self-organize into surface waves and oscillatory patterns. In the context of developing a synthetic cell from elementary biological modules, harnessing Min oscillations might allow us to implement higher-order cellular functions. To convey hereditary information, the Min system must be encoded in a DNA molecule that can be copied, transcribed, and translated. Here, the MinD and MinE proteins are synthesized de novo from their genes inside liposomes. Dynamic protein patterns and accompanying liposome shape deformation are observed. When integrated with the cytoskeletal proteins FtsA and FtsZ, the synthetic Min system is able to dynamically regulate FtsZ patterns. By enabling genetic control over Min protein self-organization and membrane remodeling, our methodology offers unique opportunities towards directed evolution of bacterial division processes in vitro.
PXD009727	31673027	Transcriptomics and proteomics reveal two waves of translational repression during the maturation of malaria parasite sporozoites. 	Proteomic analysis of Plasmodium yoelii salivary gland sprozoites	Plasmodium yoelii, salivary gland sprozoite	Plasmodium sporozoites are transmitted from infected mosquitoes to mammals, and must navigate the host skin and vasculature to infect the liver. This journey requires distinct proteomes. Here, we report the dynamic transcriptomes and proteomes of both oocyst sporozoites and salivary gland sporozoites in both rodent-infectious Plasmodium yoelii parasites and human-infectious Plasmodium falciparum parasites. The data robustly define mRNAs and proteins that are upregulated in oocyst sporozoites (UOS) or upregulated in infectious sporozoites (UIS) within the salivary glands, including many that are essential for sporozoite functions in the vector and host. Moreover, we find that malaria parasites use two overlapping, extensive, and independent programs of translational repression across sporozoite maturation to temporally regulate protein expression. Together with gene-specific validation experiments, these data indicate that two waves of translational repression are implemented and relieved at different times during sporozoite maturation, migration and infection, thus promoting their successful development and vector-to-host transition.
PXD009306	31673052	Ageing and amyloidosis underlie the molecular and pathological alterations of tau in a mouse model of familial Alzheimer's disease. 	Tauopathy in the APPswe/PS1E9 mouse model of familial Alzheimer's disease	AD, Tau	Despite compelling evidence that the accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) promotes neocortical MAPT (tau) aggregation in familial and idiopathic Alzheimer's disease (AD), murine models of cerebral amyloidosis are not considered to develop tau-associated pathology. In the present study, we show that tau can accumulate spontaneously in aged transgenic APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mice. Tau pathology is abundant around Abeta deposits, and further characterized by accumulation of Gallyas and thioflavin-S-positive inclusions, which were detected in the APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 brain at 18 months of age. Age-dependent increases in argyrophilia correlated positively with binding levels of the paired helical filament (PHF) tracer [(18)F]Flortaucipir, in all brain areas examined. Sarkosyl-insoluble PHFs were visualized by electron microscopy. Quantitative proteomics identified sequences of hyperphosphorylated and three-repeat tau in transgenic mice, along with signs of RNA missplicing, ribosomal dysregulation and disturbed energy metabolism. Tissue from the frontal gyrus of human subjects was used to validate these findings, revealing primarily quantitative differences between the tau pathology observed in AD patient vs. transgenic mouse tissue. As physiological levels of endogenous, 'wild-type' tau aggregate secondarily to Abeta in APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mice, this study suggests that amyloidosis is both necessary and sufficient to drive tauopathy in experimental models of familial AD.
PXD013584	31675356	CEH-60/PBX regulates vitellogenesis and cuticle permeability through intestinal interaction with UNC-62/MEIS in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	CEH-60/PBX regulates vitellogenesis and cuticle formation through interaction with UNC-62/MEIS in Caenorhabditis elegans	CEH-60, Caenorhabditis elegans, TMT, collagen, cuticle, vitellogenesis, yolk proteins	The onset of sexual maturity involves dramatic changes in physiology and gene expression in many animals. These include abundant yolk protein production in egg-laying species, an energetically costly process under extensive transcriptional control. Here, we used the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans to provide evidence for the spatiotemporally defined interaction of two evolutionarily conserved transcription factors, CEH-60/PBX and UNC-62/MEIS, acting as a gateway to yolk protein production. Via proteomics, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), and biochemical and functional readouts, we show that this interaction occurs in the intestine of animals at the onset of sexual maturity and suffices to support the reproductive program. Our electron micrographs and functional assays provide evidence that intestinal PBX/MEIS cooperation drives another process that depends on lipid mobilization: the formation of an impermeable epicuticle. Without this lipid-rich protective layer, mutant animals are hypersensitive to exogenous oxidative stress and are poor partners for mating. Dedicated communication between the hypodermis and intestine in C. elegans likely supports these physiological outcomes, and we propose a fundamental role for the conserved PBX/MEIS interaction in multicellular signaling networks that rely on lipid homeostasis.
PXD012305	31675375	NPM and NPM-MLF1 interact with chromatin remodeling complexes and influence their recruitment to specific genes. 	NPM and NPM-MLF1 interact with chromatin remodeling complexes and influence their recruitment to specific genes	NPM, NPM-MLF1, chromatin remodeling complexes, epigenetic, leukemia	Nucleophosmin (NPM1) is frequently mutated or subjected to chromosomal translocation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). NPM protein is primarily located in the nucleus, but the recurrent NPMc+ mutation, which creates a nuclear export signal, is characterized by cytoplasmic localization and leukemogenic properties. Similarly, the NPM-MLF1 translocation product favors the partial cytoplasmic retention of NPM. Regardless of their common cellular distribution, NPM-MLF1 malignancies engender different effects on hematopoiesis compared to NPMc+ counterparts, highlighting possible aberrant nuclear function(s) of NPM in NPMc+ and NPM-MLF1 AML. We performed a proteomic analysis and found that NPM and NPM-MLF1 interact with various nuclear proteins including subunits of the chromatin remodeling complexes ISWI, NuRD and P/BAF. Accordingly, NPM and NPM-MLF1 are recruited to transcriptionally active or repressed genes along with NuRD subunits. Although the overall gene expression program in NPM knockdown cells is similar to that resulting from NPMc+, NPM-MLF1 expression differentially altered gene transcription regulated by NPM. The abnormal gene regulation imposed by NPM-MLF1 can be characterized by the enhanced recruitment of NuRD to gene regulatory regions. Thus, different mechanisms would orchestrate the dysregulation of NPM function in NPMc+- versus NPM1-MLF1-associated leukemia.
PXD004992	31675377	Integrative proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of prostate cell lines. 	Phosphoproteome profiles of prostate cancer cell lines	LC-MS, prostate cancer	BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is a major public health issue, mainly because patients relapse after androgen deprivation therapy. Proteomic strategies, aiming to reflect the functional activity of cells, are nowadays among the leading approaches to tackle the challenges not only of better diagnosis, but also of unraveling mechanistic details related to disease etiology and progression. METHODS: We conducted here a large SILAC-based Mass Spectrometry experiment to map the proteomes and phosphoproteomes of four widely used prostate cell lines, namely PNT1A, LNCaP, DU145 and PC3, representative of different cancerous and hormonal status. RESULTS: We identified more than 3000 proteins and phosphosites, from which we quantified more than 1000 proteins and 500 phosphosites after stringent filtering. Extensive exploration of this proteomics and phosphoproteomics dataset allowed characterizing housekeeping as well as cell-line specific proteins, phosphosites and functional features of each cell line. In addition, by comparing the sensitive and resistant cell lines, we identified protein and phosphosites differentially expressed in the resistance context. Further data integration in a molecular network highlighted the differentially expressed pathways, in particular migration and invasion, RNA splicing, DNA damage repair response and transcription regulation. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, this study proposes a valuable resource toward the characterization of proteome and phosphoproteome of four widely used prostate cell lines and reveals candidates to be involved in prostate cancer progression for further experimental validation.
PXD015321	31675489	Environmental pollutant induced cellular injury is reflected in exosomes from placental explants. 	Environmental Pollutant Induced Cellular Injury is Reflected in Exosomes from Placental Explants	Extracellular vesicles, Flame retardants, exosome, inflammation, preterm birth	INTRODUCTION: Exosomes are intercellular signaling vesicles whose cargo reflects the physiological status of the cell of their origin and can regulate gene expression in other tissues. Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and bisphenols (A [BPA], Tetrabromobisphenol A [TBBPA], and 2,4,6-Tribromophenol [TBP]) are common environmental pollutants known to increase the risk for spontaneous preterm birth (PTB). We hypothesized that placental exposure to these environmental pollutants causes exosome cargo changes that reflect exposure associated placental response. METHODS: Full-term, C-section placenta explants were treated with PBDE congeners (47, 100, 153, 209), TBBPA, TBP or BPA for 24 h. Exosomes were isolated from media by sequential ultracentrifugation and purified by size exclusion chromatography. Exosomes were characterized by electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis and Western blot. Proteomics identified differentially expressed exosomal proteins and Ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) determined biological functions and pathways represented by identified proteins. RESULTS: Regardless of treatment, placental expressed exosomes markers (PLAP, CD9, CD63, 81 and ALIX), had a size distribution between 50 and 175 nm and were present in the conditioned medium at 5-8 x 10(11) exosomes/mL. Proteomic analysis identified 2598 proteins which demonstrated that specific pollutants caused differential expression of specific proteins, including alarmin, High Mobility Group Box 1 (HMGB1), MAPK14 (p38 MAPK) and GSK3beta. IPA revealed an inhibition of pathways associated with cell survival, tissue repair and proliferation, as well as activation of cell death pathways (e.g. necrosis). CONCLUSION: Environmental exposure of placental explants did not change the quantity of exosomes or their characteristics. However, exosome cargo composition exposed to some environment pollutants may be involved in placental nuclear and cellular injury and inflammation.
PXD013033	31676584	Proteomics Profiling of Autologous Blood and Semen Exosomes from HIV-infected and Uninfected Individuals Reveals Compositional and Functional Variabilities. 	Proteomics of Human Blood and Semen Exosomes	blood, exosomes, semen	Blood and semen are important body-fluids that carry exosomes for bioinformation transmission. Therefore, characterization of their proteomes is necessary for understanding body-fluid-specific physiologic and pathophysiologic functions. Using systematic multifactorial proteomic profiling, we characterized the proteomes of exosomes and exosome-free fractions from autologous blood and semen from three HIV-uninfected and three HIV-infected participants (total of 24 samples). We identified exosome-based protein signatures specific to blood and semen along with HIV-induced tissue-dependent proteomic perturbations. We validated our findings with samples from 16 additional donors and showed that unlike blood exosomes (BE), semen exosomes (SE) are enriched in clusterin. SE but not BE promote Protein.Nucleic acid binding and increase cell adhesion irrespective of HIV infection. This is the first comparative study of the proteome of autologous BE and SE. The proteins identified may be developed as biomarkers applicable to different fields of medicine, including reproduction and infectious diseases.
PXD013884	31676685	Desumoylation of RNA polymerase III lies at the core of the Sumo stress response in yeast. 	Desumoylation of the RNA polymerase III lies at the core of the Sumo-Stress Response	RNA polymerase III, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, small ubiquitinlike modifier (SUMO), stress response, transcription regulation, transfer RNA (tRNA)	Post-translational modification by small ubiquitin-like modifier (Sumo) regulates many cellular processes, including the adaptive response to various types of stress, referred to as the Sumo stress response (SSR). However, it remains unclear whether the SSR involves a common set of core proteins regardless of the type of stress or whether each particular type of stress induces a stress-specific SSR that targets a unique, largely nonoverlapping set of Sumo substrates. In this study, we used MS and a Gene Ontology approach to identify differentially sumoylated proteins during heat stress, hyperosmotic stress, oxidative stress, nitrogen starvation, and DNA alkylation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. Our results indicate that each stress triggers a specific SSR signature centered on proteins involved in transcription, translation, and chromatin regulation. Strikingly, whereas the various stress-specific SSRs were largely nonoverlapping, all types of stress tested here resulted in desumoylation of subunits of RNA polymerase III, which correlated with a decrease in tRNA synthesis. We conclude that desumoylation and subsequent inhibition of RNA polymerase III constitutes the core of all stress-specific SSRs in yeast.
PXD008778	31681758	Dissecting the Shared and Context-Dependent Pathways Mediated by the p140Cap Adaptor Protein in Cancer and in Neurons. 	p140Cap interactome in breast cancer cells	breast cancer, co-IP, nanoLC-MS/MS, p140Cap	The p140Cap adaptor protein is a scaffold molecule physiologically expressed in few epithelial tissues, such as the mammary gland, and in differentiated neurons. While the role of p140Cap in mammary gland epithelia is not still understood, we already know that a significant subset of breast cancers express p140Cap. In the subgroup of ERBB2-amplified breast cancers, a high p140Cap status predicts a significantly lower probability of developing a distant event and a clear difference in survival. p140Cap is causal in dampening ERBB2-positive tumor cell progression, impairing tumor onset and growth, and counteracting epithelial mesenchymal transition, resulting in decreased metastasis formation. Since only a few p140Cap interacting proteins have been identified in breast cancer and the molecular complexes and pathways underlying the cancer function of p140Cap are largely unknown, we generated a p140Cap interactome from ERBB2-positive breast cancer cells, identifying cancer specific components and those shared with the synaptic interactome. We identified 373 interacting proteins in cancer cells, including those with functions relevant to cell adhesion, protein homeostasis, regulation of cell cycle and apoptosis, which are frequently deregulated in cancer. Within the interactome, we identified 15 communities (clusters) with topology-functional relationships. In neurons, where p140Cap is key in regulating synaptogenesis, synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity, it establishes an extensive interactome with proteins that cluster to sub complexes located in the postsynaptic density. p140Cap interactors converge on key synaptic processes, including synaptic transmission, actin cytoskeleton remodeling and cell-cell junction organization. Comparing the breast cancer to the synaptic interactome, we found 39 overlapping proteins, a relatively small overlap. However, cell adhesion and remodeling of actin cytoskeleton clearly emerge as common terms in the shared subset. Thus, the functional signature of the two interactomes is primarily determined by organ/tissue and functional specificity, while the overlap provides a list of shared functional terms, which might be linked to both cancer and neurological functions.
PXD011408	31681806	Comparative Analysis of Erythrocyte Proteomes of Water Buffalo, Dairy Cattle, and Beef Cattle by Shotgun LC-MS/MS. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of erythrocyte proteins of buffalo, cattle, cow and Babesia orientalis-infected buffalo by shotgun LC-MS/MS approach	Comparative proteomic analysis of erythrocyte proteins of buffalo, cattle, cow and Babesia orientalis-infected buffalo	A number of studies have demonstrated that Babesia orientalis (B. orientalis) can only infect water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) and not dairy cattle (Bos taurus) or beef cattle (Bos taurus), even though all three belong to the tribe Bovini and have close evolutionary relationships. In addition, Babesia species are intracellular protozoans that obligately parasitize in erythrocytes. This may indicate that the infection specificity is due to differences in erythrocyte proteins. Totals of 491, 1,143, and 1,145 proteins were identified from water buffalo, beef cattle, and dairy cattle, respectively, by searching the Uniprot and NCBI databases. The number of proteins identified for water buffalo was far lower than for beef cattle and dairy cattle, particularly in the range from 15 to 25 kDa. Remarkably, 290 identified proteins were unique to water buffalo, of which putative gamma-globin and putative epsilon-globin had a significant possibility of being relevant to the survival of B. orientalis only in water buffalo. A total of 2,222 proteins were annotated in terms of molecular function, biological process, and cellular component according to GO annotation. The number of proteins of water buffalo in oxygen binding was far higher than for beef cattle and dairy cattle. This is the first time that the protein profiles of water buffalo, beef cattle, and dairy cattle have been comparatively analyzed. The uniquely expressed proteins in water buffalo obtained in this study may provide new insights into the mechanism of B. orientalis infection exclusivity in water buffalo and may be a benefit for the development of strategies against B. orientalis.
PXD015981	31682457	Proteomics Analysis of Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded Tissues in the Investigation of Prostate Cancer. 	Proteomics analysis of Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded tissues in the investigation of prostate cancer	FF tissue, FFPE tissue, Orbitrap Elite, Prostate cancer, Thermo Q Exactive	Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the leading causes of death in men worldwide. The molecular features, associated with the onset and progression of the disease, are under vigorous investigation. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues are valuable resources for large-scale studies; however, their application in proteomics is limited due to protein cross-linking. In this study, the adjustment of a protocol for the proteomic analysis of FFPE tissues was performed which was followed by a pilot application on FFPE PCa clinical samples to investigate whether the optimized protocol can provide biologically relevant data for the investigation of PCa. For the optimization, FFPE mouse tissues were processed using seven protein extraction protocols including combinations of homogenization methods (beads, sonication, boiling) and buffers (SDS based and urea-thiourea based). The proteome extraction efficacy was then evaluated based on protein identifications and reproducibility using SDS electrophoresis and high resolution LC-MS/MS analysis. Comparison between the FFPE and matched fresh frozen (FF) tissues, using an optimized protocol involving protein extraction with an SDS-based buffer following beads homogenization and boiling, showed a substantial overlap in protein identifications with a strong correlation in relative abundances (rs = 0.819, p < 0.001). Next, FFPE tissues (3 sections, 15 mum each per sample) from 10 patients with PCa corresponding to tumor (GS = 6 or GS >= 8) and adjacent benign regions were processed with the optimized protocol. Extracted proteins were analyzed by GeLC-MS/MS followed by statistical and bioinformatics analysis. Proteins significantly deregulated between PCa GS >= 8 and PCa GS = 6 represented extracellular matrix organization, gluconeogenesis, and phosphorylation pathways. Proteins deregulated between cancerous and adjacent benign tissues, reflected increased translation, peptide synthesis, and protein metabolism in the former, which is consistent with the literature. In conclusion, the results support the relevance of the proteomic findings in the context of PCa and the reliability of the optimized protocol for proteomics analysis of FFPE material.
PXD016024	31683061	Intact Transition Epitope Mapping - Thermodynamic Weak-force Order (ITEM - TWO). 	Intact Transition Epitope Mapping- Thermodynamic Weak-force Order (ITEM-TWO)	antibody affinity determination, antibody specificity determination	We have developed an electrospray mass spectrometry method which is capable to determine antibody affinity in a gas phase experiment. A solution with the immune complex is electrosprayed and multiply charged ions are translated into the gas phase. Then, the intact immune-complex ions are separated from unbound peptide ions. Increasing the voltage difference in a collision cell results in collision induced dissociation of the immune-complex by which bound peptide ions are released. When analyzing a peptide mixture, measuring the mass of the complex-released peptide ions identifies which of the peptides contains the epitope. A step-wise increase in the collision cell voltage difference changes the intensity ratios of the surviving immune complex ions, the released peptide ions, and the antibody ions. From all the ions' normalized intensity ratios are deduced the thermodynamic quasi equilibrium dissociation constants (KDm0g(#)) from which are calculated the apparent gas phase Gibbs energies of activation over temperature (DeltaGm0g(#)T). The order of the apparent gas phase dissociation constants of four antibody - epitope peptide pairs matched well with those obtained from in-solution measurements. The determined gas phase values for antibody affinities are independent from the source of the investigated peptides and from the applied instrument. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016024. SIGNIFICANCE: ITEM - TWO enables rapid epitope mapping and determination of apparent dissociation energies of immune complexes with minimal in-solution handling. Mixing of antibody and antigen peptide solutions initiates immune complex formation in solution. Epitope binding strengths are determined in the gas phase after electrospraying the antibody / antigen peptide mixtures and mass spectrometric analysis of immune complexes under different collision induced dissociation conditions. Since the order of binding strengths in the gas phase is the same as that in solution, ITEM - TWO characterizes two most important antibody properties, specificity and affinity.
PXD015275	31683063	Ligand-induced disorder-to-order transitions characterized by structural proteomics and molecular dynamics simulations. 	Ligand-induced disorder-to-order transitions characterized by structural proteomics and molecular dynamics simulations	Structural proteomics, conformational change, crosslinking/mass spectrometry, discrete molecular dynamics simulations, hydrogen/deuterium exchange, protein-ligand interaction, quantitative protei, surface modification	For disordered proteins, ligand binding can be a critical event that changes their structural dynamics. The ability to characterize such changes would facilitate the development of drugs designed to stabilize disordered proteins, whose mis-folding is important for a number of pathologies, including neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. In this study, we used hydrogen/deuterium exchange, differential crosslinking, differential surface modification, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to characterize the structural changes in disordered proteins that result from ligand binding. We show here that both an ATP-independent protein chaperone, Spy L32P, and the FK506 binding domain of a prolyl isomerase, FKBP-25 F145A/I223P, are disordered, yet exhibit structures that are distinct from chemically denatured unfolded states in solution, and that they undergo transitions to a more structured state upon ligand binding. These systems may serve as models for the characterization of ligand-induced disorder-to-order transitions in proteins using structural proteomics approaches. SIGNIFICANCE: In this study, we used hydrogen/deuterium exchange, differential crosslinking, differential surface modification, and molecular-dynamics simulations to characterize the structural changes in disordered proteins that result from ligand binding. The protein-ligand systems studied here (the ATP-independent protein chaperone, Spy L32P, and the FK506 binding domain of a prolyl isomerase, FKBP-25 F145A/I223P) may serve as models for understanding ligand-induced disorder-to-order transitions in proteins. Additionally, the structural proteomic techniques demonstrated here are shown to be effective tools for the characterization of disorder-to-order transitions and can be used to facilitate study of other systems in which this class of structural transition can be used for modulating major pathological features of disease, such as the abnormal protein aggregation that occurs with Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.
PXD014387	31684170	Loss of FBXO9 Enhances Proteasome Activity and Promotes Aggressiveness in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	FBXO9 in Murine Inversion 16 AML	FBXO9 AML Inv(16) Spleen	The hematopoietic system is maintained throughout life by stem cells that are capable of differentiating into all hematopoietic lineages. An intimate balance between self-renewal, differentiation, and quiescence is required to maintain hematopoiesis and disruption of this balance can result in malignant transformation. FBXO9, the substrate recognition component from the SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase family, is downregulated in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) compared to healthy bone marrow, and this downregulation is particularly evident in patients with inv(16) AML. To study FBXO9 in malignant hematopoiesis, we generated a conditional knockout mouse model using a novel CRISPR/Cas9 strategy. Deletion of Fbxo9 in the murine hematopoietic system showed no adverse effects on stem and progenitor cell function but in AML lead to markedly accelerated and aggressive leukemia development in mice with inv(16). Not only did Fbxo9 play a role in leukemia initiation but it also functioned to maintain AML activity and promote disease progression. Quantitative mass spectrometry from primary tumors reveals tumors lacking Fbxo9 highly express proteins associated with metastasis and invasion as well as components of the ubiquitin proteasome system. We confirmed that the loss of FBXO9 leads to increased proteasome activity and tumors cells were more sensitive to in vitro proteasome inhibition with bortezomib, suggesting that FBXO9 expression may predict patients' response to bortezomib.
PXD009584	31684873	Quantitative succinyl-proteome profiling of Chinese hickory (Carya cathayensis) during the grafting process. 	Quantitative succinyl-proteome profiling of hickory (Carya cathayensis) during grafting process	grafting, heat shock protein, hickory, post-translational modification, succinylation	BACKGROUND: Chinese hickory (Carya cathayensis) is a popular nut plant having high economic value. Grafting is applied to accelerate the transition from vegetative phase to reproductive phase. Lysine succinylation occurs frequently in the proteins associated with metabolic pathways, which may participate in the regulation of the grafting process. However, the exact regulatory mechanism underlying grafting process in Chinese hickory has not been studied at post-translational modification level. RESULTS: A comprehensive proteome-wide lysine succinylation profiling of Chinese hickory was explored by a newly developed method combining affinity enrichment and high-resolution LC-MS/MS. In total, 259 succinylation sites in 202 proteins were identified, representing the first comprehensive lysine succinylome in Chinese hickory. The succinylation was biased to occur in the cytosolic proteins of Chinese hickory. Moreover, four conserved succinylation motifs were identified in the succinylated peptides. Comparison of two grafting stages of Chinese hickory revealed that the differential expressed succinylated proteins were mainly involved in sugar metabolism, carbon fixation, amino acid metabolism and plant-pathogen interaction. Besides, seven heat shock proteins (HSPs) with 11 succinylation sites were also identified, all of which were observed to be up-regulated during the grafting process. CONCLUSIONS: Succinylation of the proteins involved in amino acid biosynthesis might be required for a successful grafting. Succinylated HSPs might play a role in stress tolerance of the grafted Chinese hickory plants. Our results can be a good resource for functional validation of the succinylated proteins and a starting point for the investigation of molecular mechanisms during lysine succinylation occurring at grafting site.
PXD014756	31685550	Function of the MYND Domain and C-Terminal Region in Regulating the Subcellular Localization and Catalytic Activity of the SMYD Family Lysine Methyltransferase Set5. 	Function of the MYND domain and C-terminal region in regulating the subcellular localization and catalytic activity of the SMYD family lysine methyltransferase Set5	Saccharomyces cerevisiae, methyltransferase	SMYD lysine methyltransferases target histones and nonhistone proteins for methylation and are critical regulators of muscle development and implicated in neoplastic transformation. They are characterized by a split catalytic SET domain and an intervening MYND zinc finger domain, as well as an extended C-terminal domain. Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains two SMYD proteins, Set5 and Set6, which share structural elements with the mammalian SMYD enzymes. Set5 is a histone H4 lysine 5, 8, and 12 methyltransferase, implicated in the regulation of stress responses and genome stability. While the SMYD proteins have diverse roles in cells, there are many gaps in our understanding of how these enzymes are regulated. Here, we performed mutational analysis of Set5, combined with phosphoproteomics, to identify regulatory mechanisms for its enzymatic activity and subcellular localization. Our results indicate that the MYND domain promotes Set5 chromatin association in cells and is required for its role in repressing subtelomeric genes. Phosphoproteomics revealed extensive phosphorylation of Set5, and phosphomimetic mutations enhance Set5 catalytic activity but diminish its ability to interact with chromatin in cells. These studies uncover multiple regions within Set5 that regulate its localization and activity and highlight potential avenues for understanding mechanisms controlling the diverse roles of SMYD enzymes.
PXD016015	31685606	Hsp110 mitigates alpha-synuclein pathology in vivo. 	Hsp110 Mitigates alpha-Synuclein Pathology In Vivo	Parkinson's disease, alpha synuclein, chaperone, disaggregate, synapse	Parkinson's disease is characterized by the aggregation of the presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein and its deposition into pathologic Lewy bodies. While extensive research has been carried out on mediators of alpha-synuclein aggregation, molecular facilitators of alpha-synuclein disaggregation are still generally unknown. We investigated the role of molecular chaperones in both preventing and disaggregating alpha-synuclein oligomers and fibrils, with a focus on the mammalian disaggregase complex. Here, we show that overexpression of the chaperone Hsp110 is sufficient to reduce alpha-synuclein aggregation in a mammalian cell culture model. Additionally, we demonstrate that Hsp110 effectively mitigates alpha-synuclein pathology in vivo through the characterization of transgenic Hsp110 and double-transgenic alpha-synuclein/Hsp110 mouse models. Unbiased analysis of the synaptic proteome of these mice revealed that overexpression of Hsp110 can override the protein changes driven by the alpha-synuclein transgene. Furthermore, overexpression of Hsp110 is sufficient to prevent endogenous alpha-synuclein templating and spread following injection of aggregated alpha-synuclein seeds into brain, supporting a role for Hsp110 in the prevention and/or disaggregation of alpha-synuclein pathology.
PXD015801	31685918	Unraveling oxidative stress response in the cestode parasite Echinococcus granulosus. 	Effect of hydrogen peroxide on Echinococcus granulosus protoescoleces proteome	Echinococcus, hydrogen peroxide	Cystic hydatid disease (CHD) is a worldwide neglected zoonotic disease caused by Echinococcus granulosus. The parasite is well adapted to its host by producing protective molecules that modulate host immune response. An unexplored issue associated with the parasite's persistence in its host is how the organism can survive the oxidative stress resulting from parasite endogenous metabolism and host defenses. Here, we used hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to induce oxidative stress in E. granulosus protoescoleces (PSCs) to identify molecular pathways and antioxidant responses during H2O2 exposure. Using proteomics, we identified 550 unique proteins; including 474 in H2O2-exposed PSCs (H-PSCs) samples and 515 in non-exposed PSCs (C-PSCs) samples. Larger amounts of antioxidant proteins, including GSTs and novel carbonyl detoxifying enzymes, such as aldo-keto reductase and carbonyl reductase, were detected after H2O2 exposure. Increased concentrations of caspase-3 and cathepsin-D proteases and components of the 26S proteasome were also detected in H-PSCs. Reduction of lamin-B and other caspase-substrate, such as filamin, in H-PSCs suggested that molecular events related to early apoptosis were also induced. We present data that describe proteins expressed in response to oxidative stress in a metazoan parasite, including novel antioxidant enzymes and targets with potential application to treatment and prevention of CHD.
PXD015210	31685984	Tumour exosomal CEMIP protein promotes cancer cell colonization in brain metastasis. 	Tumour exosomal CEMIP protein promotes cancer cell colonization in brain metastasis	Tumour exosomal CEMI brain metastasis	The development of effective therapies against brain metastasis is currently hindered by limitations in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms driving it. Here we define the contributions of tumour-secreted exosomes to brain metastatic colonization and demonstrate that pre-conditioning the brain microenvironment with exosomes from brain metastatic cells enhances cancer cell outgrowth. Proteomic analysis identified cell migration-inducing and hyaluronan-binding protein (CEMIP) as elevated in exosomes from brain metastatic but not lung or bone metastatic cells. CEMIP depletion in tumour cells impaired brain metastasis, disrupting invasion and tumour cell association with the brain vasculature, phenotypes rescued by pre-conditioning the brain microenvironment with CEMIP(+) exosomes. Moreover, uptake of CEMIP(+) exosomes by brain endothelial and microglial cells induced endothelial cell branching and inflammation in the perivascular niche by upregulating the pro-inflammatory cytokines encoded by Ptgs2, Tnf and Ccl/Cxcl, known to promote brain vascular remodelling and metastasis. CEMIP was elevated in tumour tissues and exosomes from patients with brain metastasis and predicted brain metastasis progression and patient survival. Collectively, our findings suggest that targeting exosomal CEMIP could constitute a future avenue for the prevention and treatment of brain metastasis.
PXD013196	31685992	PTENalpha and PTENbeta promote carcinogenesis through WDR5 and H3K4 trimethylation. 	PTENa/b paradoxically promote carcinogenesis through WDR5-H3K4me3 axis	Carcinogenesis, FBXW11, PTEN, PTENa, PTENb, USP9X, WDR5, ubiquitination	PTENalpha and PTENbeta are two longer translational variants of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) messenger RNA. Their expressional regulations and functions in carcinogenesis remain largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that, in contrast with the well-established tumour-suppressive role of canonical PTEN, PTENalpha and PTENbeta promote tumourigenesis by directly interacting with the histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) presenter WDR5 to promote H3K4 trimethylation and maintain a tumour-promoting signature. We also show that USP9X and FBXW11 bind to the amino-terminal extensions of PTENalpha/beta, and respectively deubiquitinate and ubiquitinate lysines 235 and 239 in PTENalpha to regulate PTENalpha/beta stability. In accordance, USP9X promotes tumourigenesis and FBXW11 suppresses tumourigenesis through PTENalpha/beta. Taken together, our results indicate that the Pten gene is a double-edged sword for carcinogenesis, and reinterpretation of the importance of the Pten gene in carcinogenesis is warranted.
PXD014250	31687427	Proteomic dataset: Profiling of membrane fraction of Escherichia coli isolated from Crohn's disease patients after adhesion and invasion experiments. 	Profiling of Escherichia coli isolated from Crohn's disease patients after adhesion and invasion in CaCo cell line.	AIEC, Crohn's disease, Escherichia coli	Crohn's disease (CD) is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IDB). The endoscopic picture of Crohn's disease includes thickened submucosa, transmural inflammation, fissuring ulceration, and non-caseating granulomas. Intestinal microbiome dysbiosis has been described systematically in patients with IBD. In recent decades it was detailed that Escherichia coli, especially adherent-invasive E. coli (AIEC) pathotype, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of IBD, including Crohn's disease (Palmela, et al., 2018). In comparison with commensal strains of E. coli, AIEC strains have a large adhesive-invasive potential therefore its surface composition is of great interest. We presented a dataset of the membrane proteins of strains isolated from patients with Crohn's disease. From the set of Escherichia coli isolated from Crohn's disease patients [2] we chose three isolates with strongest AIEC pathotype. We performed proteome-wide LC-MS analysis of membrane fraction of this isolates after invasion or adhesion-invasion to human intestinal CaCo-2 cell line and prior to this (control). The data including LC-MS/MS raw files and exported MaxQuant search results with fasta files were deposited to the PRIDE repository project accession PXD014250.
PXD010722	31689115	Simple Method To Characterize the Ciliary Proteome of Multiciliated Cells. 	Cilia proteome isolated from the multi-ciliated cells of Xenopus laevis embryo epidermis	Cilia proteome, Multiciliated Cells, Xenopus laevis	Motile cilia of multiciliated epithelial cells have important roles in animal development and cell homeostasis. Although several studies have identified and reported proteins localized in this complex organelle and the related immotile primary cilia from various cell types, it is still challenging to isolate high quantities of ciliary proteins for proteomic analysis. In this study, African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis) embryos, which have many multiciliated cells in the epidermis, were treated with a simple ionic buffer to identify 1009 proteins conserved across vertebrates; these proteins were putatively localized in motile cilia. Using two ciliary proteome databases, we confirmed that previously validated cilia-associated proteins are highly enriched in our ciliary proteome. Proteins localized at the transition zone and Ellis-van Creveld zone, which are distinct regions at the base of cilia, near the junction with the apical cell surface, were isolated using our method. Among the newly identified ciliary proteins, we report that KRT17 may have an unrecognized function in motile cilia. Hence, the method developed in this study would be useful for understanding the ciliary proteome.
PXD015742	31689238	Molecular basis of senescence transmitting in the population of human endometrial stromal cells. 	Molecular basis of senescence transmitting in the population of human endometrial stromal cells	PAI-1, SASP, endometrial stromal cells, senescence	Hormone-regulated proliferation and differentiation of endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) determine overall endometrial plasticity and receptivity to embryos. Previously we revealed that ESCs may undergo premature senescence, accompanied by proliferation loss and various intracellular alterations. Here we focused on whether and how senescence may be transmitted within the ESCs population. We revealed that senescent ESCs may induce paracrine senescence in young counterparts via cell contacts, secreted factors and extracellular vesicles. According to secretome-wide profiling we identified plasminogen activator inhibitor -1 (PAI-1) to be the most prominent protein secreted by senescent ESCs (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015742). By applying CRISPR/Cas9 techniques we disclosed that PAI-1 secreted by senescent ESCs may serve as the master-regulator of paracrine senescence progression within the ESCs population. Unraveled molecular basis of senescence transduction in the ESCs population may be further considered in terms of altered endometrial plasticity and sensitivity to invading embryo, thus contributing to the female infertility curing.
PXD015386	31689240	Exosomes from mesenchymal stromal cells reduce murine colonic inflammation via a macrophage-dependent mechanism. 	Exosomes from mesenchymal stromal cells reduce murine colonic inflammation via a macrophage-dependent mechanism	Inflammatory bowel disease, exosomes, macrophages, mesenchymal stromal cells	Conventional treatments for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) have multiple potential side effects. Therefore, alternative treatments are desperately needed. This work demonstrated that systemic administration of exosomes from human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC-Exos) substantially mitigated colitis in various models of IBD. MSC-Exos treatment downregulated inflammatory responses, maintained intestinal barrier integrity, and polarized M2b macrophages but did not favor intestinal fibrosis. Mechanistically, infused MSC-Exos acted mainly on colonic macrophages, and macrophages from colitic colons acquired obvious resistance to inflammatory restimulation when prepared from mice treated with MSC-Exos versus untreated mice. The beneficial effect of MSC-Exos was blocked by macrophage depletion. Also, the induction of IL-10 production from macrophages was partially involved in the beneficial effect of MSC-Exos. MSC-Exos were enriched in proteins involved in regulating multiple biological processes associated with the anticolitic benefit of MSC-Exos. Particularly, metallothionein-2 in MSC-Exos was required for the suppression of inflammatory responses. Taken together, MSC-Exos are critical regulators of inflammatory responses and may be promising candidates for IBD treatment.
PXD013790	31689562	Integrated proteomic and metabolomic profiling the global response of rat glioma model by temozolomide treatment. 	Integrated proteomic and metabolomic profiling the global response of rat glioma model to temozolomide treatment	Biomarker, Glioma, Metabolomics, Quantitative proteomics, Temozolomide	Temozolomide (TMZ) is the first-line chemotherapeutic drug for glioblastoma treatment. It can induce O6-methylguanine DNA lesions, lead to prolonged G2-M arrest and ultimately cell death. However, the molecular response induced by TMZ has not been fully elucidated. In this study, by integrating quantitative proteomics and metabolomics, we identified protein and metabolite markers that correlate with TMZ treatment and discovered the protein-metabolite regulatory network. A total of 1782 proteins and 56 endogenous metabolites were significantly altered in the brain between sham and tumor groups, 38 metabolites markedly altered in plasma. After TMZ treatment, 251 proteins and 9 metabolites significantly changed in the brain, and 14 metabolites did in plasma. 35 proteins significantly altered by TMZ were further validated by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis. The multi-omics analysis revealed differential proteins and metabolites were involved in DNA replication, nucleotides degradation, cysteine biosynthesis, and other pathways. Adenosine, sarcosine and adenosine deaminase involved in multiple metabolic pathways may serve as potential biomarkers for TMZ treatment. This is the first report utilizing multi-omics analysis to investigate the global response of proteins and metabolites in glioma by TMZ treatment, and the data can provide a comprehensive insight to understand the mechanism of TMZ. SIGNIFICANCE: The study focused on integrating quantitative proteomics and endogenous metabolites profiling of the rat glioma brain in response to chemotherapeutic drug temozolomide treatment, which has not yet been reported. The results showed that the effect of temozolomide on glioma is significant, including DNA replication, nucleotides degradation, cysteine biosynthesis, and synaptogenesis signaling pathway. Our study can provide a comprehensive insight to screen potential targets and biomarkers of glioma as well as to elucidate the mechanism of temozolomide inhibiting tumor growth.
PXD015611	31689955	yRACK1/Asc1 proxiOMICs-Towards Illuminating Ships Passing in the Night. 	Quantitative Rps2 BioID to monitor Asc1-dependent rearrangement at the head region of the 40S ribosome	Asc1, BioID, Bre5, Def1, Rps2, Rps3, SILAC, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Sro9, Stm1, Ubp3, Vps30, ribosome, translation	Diverse signals and stress factors regulate the activity and homeostasis of ribosomes in all cells. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein Asc1/yRACK1 occupies an exposed site at the head region of the 40S ribosomal subunit (hr40S) and represents a central hub for signaling pathways. Asc1 strongly affects protein phosphorylation and is involved in quality control pathways induced by translation elongation arrest. Therefore, it is important to understand the dynamics of protein formations in the Asc1 microenvironment at the hr40S. We made use of the in vivo protein-proximity labeling technique Biotin IDentification (BioID). Unbiased proxiOMICs from two adjacent perspectives identified nucleocytoplasmic shuttling mRNA-binding proteins, the deubiquitinase complex Ubp3-Bre5, as well as the ubiquitin E3 ligase Hel2 as neighbors of Asc1. We observed Asc1-dependency of hr40S localization of mRNA-binding proteins and the Ubp3 co-factor Bre5. Hel2 and Ubp3-Bre5 are described to balance the mono-ubiquitination of Rps3 (uS3) during ribosome quality control. Here, we show that the absence of Asc1 resulted in massive exposure and accessibility of the C-terminal tail of its ribosomal neighbor Rps3 (uS3). Asc1 and some of its direct neighbors together might form a ribosomal decision tree that is tightly connected to close-by signaling modules.
PXD014986	31690592	Quantitative Proteome Analysis of Atg5-Deficient Mouse Embryonic Fibroblasts Reveals the Range of the Autophagy-Modulated Basal Cellular Proteome. 	Effect of ATG5 depletion on virus infection	ATG5, Japanese encephalitis virus, Mouse embryonic fibroblasts, autophagy	Basal autophagy is crucial for maintenance of cellular homeostasis. ATG5 is an essential protein for autophagosome formation, and its depletion has been extensively used as a tool to disrupt autophagy. Here, we characterize the impact of Atg5 deficiency on the cellular proteome of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Using a tandem mass tagging (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics analysis, we observe that 14% of identified proteins show dysregulated levels in atg5(-/-) MEFs. These proteins were distributed across diverse biological processes, such as cell adhesion, development, differentiation, transport, metabolism, and immune responses. Several of the upregulated proteins were receptors involved in transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling, JAK-STAT signaling, junction adhesion, and interferon/cytokine-receptor interactions and were validated as autophagy substrates. Nearly equal numbers of proteins, including several lysosomal proteins and enzymes, were downregulated, suggesting a complex role of autophagy/ATG5 in regulating their levels. The atg5(-/-) MEFs had lower levels of key immune sensors and effectors, including Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), IRF7, MLKL, and STAT1/3/5/6, which were restored by reexpression of ATG5. While these cells could efficiently mount a type I interferon response to the double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) mimic poly(I.C), they were compromised in their inflammatory response to the bacterial pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and Pam3CSK4. Transcriptional activation and secretion of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in these cells could be recovered by ATG5 expression, supporting the role of autophagy in the TLR2-induced inflammatory response. This study provides a key resource for understanding the effect of autophagy/ATG5 deficiency on the fibroblast proteome.IMPORTANCE Autophagy performs housekeeping functions for cells and maintains a functional mode by degrading damaged proteins and organelles and providing energy under starvation conditions. The process is tightly regulated by the evolutionarily conserved Atg genes, of which Atg5 is one such crucial mediator. Here, we have done a comprehensive quantitative proteome analysis of mouse embryonic fibroblasts that lack a functional autophagy pathway (Atg5 knockout). We observe that 14% of the identified cellular proteome is remodeled, and several proteins distributed across diverse cellular processes with functions in signaling, cell adhesion, development, and immunity show either higher or lower levels under autophagy-deficient conditions. These cells have lower levels of crucial immune proteins that are required to mount a protective inflammatory response. This study will serve as a valuable resource to determine the role of autophagy in modulating specific protein levels in cells.
PXD015989	31690623	The molecular architecture of photoreceptor phosphodiesterase 6 (PDE6) with activated G protein elucidates the mechanism of visual excitation. 	Molecular architecture of photoreceptor phosphodiesterase (PDE6) with activated G protein elucidates the mechanism of visual excitation	PDE6, chemical cross-linking	Photoreceptor phosphodiesterase 6 (PDE6) is the central effector of the visual excitation pathway in both rod and cone photoreceptors, and PDE6 mutations that alter PDE6 structure or regulation can result in several human retinal diseases. The rod PDE6 holoenzyme consists of two catalytic subunits (Palphabeta) whose activity is suppressed in the dark by binding of two inhibitory gamma-subunits (Pgamma). Upon photoactivation of rhodopsin, the heterotrimeric G protein (transducin) is activated, resulting in binding of the activated transducin alpha-subunit (Gtalpha) to PDE6, displacement of Pgamma from the PDE6 active site, and enzyme activation. Although the biochemistry of this pathway is understood, a lack of detailed structural information about the PDE6 activation mechanism hampers efforts to develop therapeutic interventions for managing PDE6-associated retinal diseases. To address this gap, here we used a cross-linking MS-based approach to create a model of the entire interaction surface of Pgamma with the regulatory and catalytic domains of Palphabeta in its nonactivated state. Following reconstitution of PDE6 and activated Gtalpha with liposomes and identification of cross-links between Gtalpha and PDE6 subunits, we determined that the PDE6-Gtalpha protein complex consists of two Gtalpha-binding sites per holoenzyme. Each Gtalpha interacts with the catalytic domains of both catalytic subunits and induces major changes in the interaction sites of the Pgamma subunit with the catalytic subunits. These results provide the first structural model for the activated state of the transducin-PDE6 complex during visual excitation, enhancing our understanding of the molecular etiology of inherited retinal diseases.
PXD008888	31690884	Co-regulation map of the human proteome enables identification of protein functions. 	Chromatin proteomics experiments for ProteomeHD	ChEP, Chromatin proteomics, NCC, ProteomeHD, SILAC	Assigning functions to the vast array of proteins present in eukaryotic cells remains challenging. To identify relationships between proteins, and thereby enable functional annotation of proteins, we determined changes in abundance of 10,323 human proteins in response to 294 biological perturbations using isotope-labeling mass spectrometry. We applied the machine learning algorithm treeClust to reveal functional associations between co-regulated human proteins from ProteomeHD, a compilation of our own data and datasets from the Proteomics Identifications database. This produced a co-regulation map of the human proteome. Co-regulation was able to capture relationships between proteins that do not physically interact or colocalize. For example, co-regulation of the peroxisomal membrane protein PEX11beta with mitochondrial respiration factors led us to discover an organelle interface between peroxisomes and mitochondria in mammalian cells. We also predicted the functions of microproteins that are difficult to study with traditional methods. The co-regulation map can be explored at www.proteomeHD.net .
PXD012459	31691790	Carbo-loading in Coccidioides spp.: A quantitative analysis of CAZyme abundance and resulting glycan populations. 	Carbo-loading in fungal lung pathogens: a quantitative analysis of CAZyme abundance and resulting glycan populations	CAZymes, Coccidioides, Valley Fever, glycans, glycomics	Coccidioides spp. are important pneumonia-causing pathogens of the American southwest, but little is known about their glycobiology and how their glycosylations differ from other pneumonia-causing fungi. There is mounting preliminary evidence to suggest genus or even species-specific glycosylations in the fungal kingdom due to the presence of unique carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) in fungal genomes (Deshpande et al. 2008, Glycobiology, 18(8), 626-637; Karkowska-Kuleta and Kozik 2015, Acta Biochim Pol., 62(3), 339-351). If Coccidioides spp.-specific glycans can be identified, it may be possible to exploit these differences to develop more specific diagnostic approaches and more effective therapeutics. Herein, we i) mined Coccidioides spp. and other pathogenic fungal genomes to identify CAZymes specific for Coccidioides spp., ii) proteomically determined the Coccidioides spp. "CAZome" produced in vivo and in vitro, and iii) utilized glycomics to differentiate Coccidioides genus-specific N-glycans from other pathogenic fungi. As far as we are aware, this is the first proteomic and glycomic comparison of the N-glycomes and CAZomes of different fungal genera during infection in human hosts.
PXD014519	31692741	Metaproteomic data of maize rhizosphere for deciphering functional diversity. 	Metaproteomic data of maize rhizosphere	LC MSMS, Maize rhizosphere, Metaproteome, Microbiota, soil microbial proteins	Metaproteomics is a powerful tool for obtaining data on all proteins recovered directly from environmental samples at a given time. It provides a direct evidence of functional diversity and structure among microbiota present in niches and significant insights into microbial activity together with metabolomics, which is the study of the intermediate and end-products of cellular processes. Metaproteomics is a comparatively new approach which is facing a number of empirical, technical, computational and experimental design challenges that needs to be addressed. Presently only little efforts have been made to have information on microbial proteins in rhizospheric soil of maize through metagemonics approach but there is no direct evidence on functions of microbial community in this very important niche. Since rhizosphere microbiome plays important role in plant growth and development the present study is conducted to optimize the metaproteomic extraction protocol from maize rhizosphere and analyse functionality of microbial communities. We present metaproteome data from maize rhizospheric soil. Isolation of metaproteome from maize rhizosphere collected from ICAR-IISS, Mau experimental Farm was done with the standardized protocol at our laboratory and metaproteome analysis was done with the standardized pipeline. In total 696 proteins with different functions representing 244 genus and 393 species were identified. The proteome data provides direct evidence on the biological processes in soil ecosystem and is the first reported reference data from maize rhizosphere. The LC MS/MS proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014519.
PXD014076	31693769	Evidence for a role of protein phosphorylation in the maintenance of the cnidarian-algal symbiosis. 	The phosphoproteome of the coral model system Aiptasia	Aiptasia, Cnidarian, Coral-model, DDA, DIA/SWATH-MS, quantification, spectral library	The endosymbiotic relationship between cnidarians and photosynthetic dinoflagellate algae provides the foundation of coral reef ecosystems. This essential interaction is globally threatened by anthropogenic disturbance. As such, it is important to understand the molecular mechanisms underpinning the cnidarian-algal association. Here we investigated phosphorylation-mediated protein signalling as a mechanism of regulation of the cnidarian-algal interaction, and we report on the generation of the first phosphoproteome for the coral model system Aiptasia. Mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics using data-independent acquisition allowed consistent quantification of over 3,000 phosphopeptides totalling more than 1,600 phosphoproteins across aposymbiotic (symbiont-free) and symbiotic anemones. Comparison of the symbiotic states showed distinct phosphoproteomic profiles attributable to the differential phosphorylation of 539 proteins that cover a broad range of functions, from receptors to structural and signal transduction proteins. A subsequent pathway enrichment analysis identified the processes of "protein digestion and absorption," "carbohydrate metabolism," and "protein folding, sorting and degradation," and highlighted differential phosphorylation of the "phospholipase D signalling pathway" and "protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum." Targeted phosphorylation of the phospholipase D signalling pathway suggests control of glutamate vesicle trafficking across symbiotic compartments, and phosphorylation of the endoplasmic reticulum machinery suggests recycling of symbiosome-associated proteins. Our study shows for the first time that changes in the phosphorylation status of proteins between aposymbiotic and symbiotic Aiptasia anemones may play a role in the regulation of the cnidarian-algal symbiosis. This is the first phosphoproteomic study of a cnidarian-algal symbiotic association as well as the first application of quantification by data-independent acquisition in the coral field.
PXD012590	31693783	Profiling Differentially Abundant Proteins by Overexpression of Three Putative Methyltransferases in Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. glycines. 	Profiling proteins regulated by putative methyltransferases in Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. glycines str. 8ra	Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. glycines, label-free shotgun proteomics, methyltransferase	Methyltransferases (MTases) are enzymes that modify specific substrates by adding a methyl group using S-adenosyl-l-methionine. Functions of MTases have been extensively studied in eukaryotic organisms and animal pathogenic bacteria. Despite their importance, mechanisms underlying MTase function in plant pathogenic bacteria have not been studied in depth, as is the case of Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. glycines (Xag) that causes bacterial pustule disease in soybean crops worldwide. Here, the association between Xag proteome alterations and three MTase-overexpressing strains, Xag(XgMT1), Xag(XgMT2), and Xag(XgMT3), compared to Xag carrying an empty vector, Xag(EV) is reported. Using label-free shotgun comparative proteomic analysis, proteins are identified in all three biological replicates of the four strains and ranged from 1004 to 1082. In comparative analyses, 124, 135, and 134 proteins are differentially changed (over twofold) by overexpression of XgMT1, XgMT2, and XgMT3, respectively. These proteins are also categorized using cluster of orthologous group (COG) analyses, allowing postulation of biological mechanisms associated with three MTases in Xag. COGs reveal that the three MTases may play distinct roles, although some functions may overlap. These results are expected to allow new insight into understanding and predicting the biological functions of MTases in plant pathogenic bacteria. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (Identifier PXD012590).
PXD014322	31693893	Phosphoproteomics of Acute Cell Stressors Targeting Exercise Signaling Networks Reveal Drug Interactions Regulating Protein Secretion. 	Phosphoproteomic screening of exercise-like treatments reveals drug interactions regulating protein secretion	exercise, myotubes, phosphoproteomics	Exercise engages signaling networks to control the release of circulating factors beneficial to health. However, the nature of these networks remains undefined. Using high-throughput phosphoproteomics, we quantify 20,249 phosphorylation sites in skeletal muscle-like myotube cells and monitor their responses to a panel of cell stressors targeting aspects of exercise signaling in vivo. Integrating these in-depth phosphoproteomes with the phosphoproteome of acute aerobic exercise in human skeletal muscle suggests that co-administration of beta-adrenergic and calcium agonists would activate complementary signaling relevant to this exercise context. The phosphoproteome of cells treated with this combination reveals a surprising divergence in signaling from the individual treatments. Remarkably, only the combination treatment promotes multisite phosphorylation of SERBP1, a regulator of Serpine1 mRNA stability, a pro-fibrotic secreted protein. Secretome analysis reveals that the combined treatments decrease secretion of SERPINE1 and other deleterious factors. This study provides a framework for dissecting phosphorylation-based signaling relevant to acute exercise.
PXD012077	31693902	Heat-Shock Protein 90 Controls the Expression of Cell-Cycle Genes by Stabilizing Metazoan-Specific Host-Cell Factor HCFC1. 	Heat shock dependent proteome changes in HEK293 chromatin proteome	GeLC-MS, HEK293 cells, Heat shock response, SILAC, chromatin	Molecular chaperones such as heat-shock proteins (HSPs) help in protein folding. Their function in the cytosol has been well studied. Notably, chaperones are also present in the nucleus, a compartment where proteins enter after completing de novo folding in the cytosol, and this raises an important question about chaperone function in the nucleus. We performed a systematic analysis of the nuclear pool of heat-shock protein 90. Three orthogonal and independent analyses led us to the core functional interactome of HSP90. Computational and biochemical analyses identify host cell factor C1 (HCFC1) as a transcriptional regulator that depends on HSP90 for its stability. HSP90 was required to maintain the expression of HCFC1-targeted cell-cycle genes. The regulatory nexus between HSP90 and the HCFC1 module identified in this study sheds light on the relevance of chaperones in the transcription of cell-cycle genes. Our study also suggests a therapeutic avenue of combining chaperone and transcription inhibitors for cancer treatment.
PXD013549	31694916	Primary cilia and the exocyst are linked to urinary extracellular vesicle production and content. 	Cilia and the exocyst are involved in urinary extracellular vesicle production and content	GTPase, ProteomeXchange project tag: Bioinformatics Infrastructure for Life Sciences (BILS) network (Sweden), exocyst, extracellular vesicle, protein trafficking	The recently proposed idea of "urocrine signaling" hypothesizes that small secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) contain proteins that transmit signals to distant cells. However, the role of renal primary cilia in EV production and content is unclear. We previously showed that the exocyst, a highly conserved trafficking complex, is necessary for ciliogenesis; that it is present in human urinary EVs; that knockdown (KD) of exocyst complex component 5 (EXOC5), a central exocyst component, results in very short or absent cilia; and that human EXOC5 overexpression results in longer cilia. Here, we show that compared with control Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, EXOC5 overexpression increases and KD decreases EV numbers. Proteomic analyses of isolated EVs from EXOC5 control, KD, and EXOC5-overexpressing MDCK cells revealed significant alterations in protein composition. Using immunoblotting to specifically examine the expression levels of ADP-ribosylation factor 6 (ARF6) and EPS8-like 2 (EPS8L2) in EVs, we found that EXOC5 KD increases ARF6 levels and decreases EPS8L2 levels, and that EXOC5 overexpression increases EPS8L2. Knockout of intraflagellar transport 88 (IFT88) confirmed that the changes in EV number/content were due to cilia loss: similar to EXOC5, the IFT88 loss resulted in very short or absent cilia, decreased EV numbers, increased EV ARF6 levels, and decreased Eps8L2 levels compared with IFT88-rescued EVs. Compared with control animals, urine from proximal tubule-specific EXOC5-KO mice contained fewer EVs and had increased ARF6 levels. These results indicate that perturbations in exocyst and primary cilia affect EV number and protein content.
PXD008964	31695196	Dynamic lineage priming is driven via direct enhancer regulation by ERK. 	Mouse embryonic stem cell phosphoproteome	ERK, Phosphoproteomics, lineage priming, mSC	Central to understanding cellular behaviour in multi-cellular organisms is the question of how a cell exits one transcriptional state to adopt and eventually become committed to another. Fibroblast growth factor-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (FGF -ERK) signalling drives differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (ES cells) and pre-implantation embryos towards primitive endoderm, and inhibiting ERK supports ES cell self-renewal(1). Paracrine FGF-ERK signalling induces heterogeneity, whereby cells reversibly progress from pluripotency towards primitive endoderm while retaining their capacity to re-enter self-renewal(2). Here we find that ERK reversibly regulates transcription in ES cells by directly affecting enhancer activity without requiring a change in transcription factor binding. ERK triggers the reversible association and disassociation of RNA polymerase II and associated co-factors from genes and enhancers with the mediator component MED24 having an essential role in ERK-dependent transcriptional regulation. Though the binding of mediator components responds directly to signalling, the persistent binding of pluripotency factors to both induced and repressed genes marks them for activation and/or reactivation in response to fluctuations in ERK activity. Among the repressed genes are several core components of the pluripotency network that act to drive their own expression and maintain the ES cell state; if their binding is lost, the ability to reactivate transcription is compromised. Thus, as long as transcription factor occupancy is maintained, so is plasticity, enabling cells to distinguish between transient and sustained signals. If ERK signalling persists, pluripotency transcription factor levels are reduced by protein turnover and irreversible gene silencing and commitment can occur.
PXD014405	31695197	Lipid signalling drives proteolytic rewiring of mitochondria by YME1L. 	Yme1l substrate quantification under Leucine and Glutamine starvation as well as Torin treatment	DIA, MEF cells, YME1L	Reprogramming of mitochondria provides cells with the metabolic flexibility required to adapt to various developmental transitions such as stem cell activation or immune cell reprogramming, and to respond to environmental challenges such as those encountered under hypoxic conditions or during tumorigenesis(1-3). Here we show that the i-AAA protease YME1L rewires the proteome of pre-existing mitochondria in response to hypoxia or nutrient starvation. Inhibition of mTORC1 induces a lipid signalling cascade via the phosphatidic acid phosphatase LIPIN1, which decreases phosphatidylethanolamine levels in mitochondrial membranes and promotes proteolysis. YME1L degrades mitochondrial protein translocases, lipid transfer proteins and metabolic enzymes to acutely limit mitochondrial biogenesis and support cell growth. YME1L-mediated mitochondrial reshaping supports the growth of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells as spheroids or xenografts. Similar changes to the mitochondrial proteome occur in the tumour tissues of patients with PDAC, suggesting that YME1L is relevant to the pathophysiology of these tumours. Our results identify the mTORC1-LIPIN1-YME1L axis as a post-translational regulator of mitochondrial proteostasis at the interface between metabolism and mitochondrial dynamics.
PXD013930	31697861	Widespread presence of bovine proteins in human cell lines. 	Site-specific N-glycosylation of HeLa cell glycoproteins	HeLa, N-glycosylation, nanoUHPLC-MS/MS, site-specific	HPLC-MS/MS analysis of various human cell lines shows the presence of a major amount of bovine protein contaminants. These likely originate from fetal bovine serum (FBS), typically used in cell cultures. If evaluated against a human protein database, on average 10% of the identified human proteins will be misleading (bovine proteins, but indicated as if they were human). Bovine contaminants therefore may cause major bias in proteomic studies of cell cultures, if not considered explicitly.
PXD011551	31698452	Integrated phosphoproteomics and transcriptional classifiers reveal hidden RAS signaling dynamics in multiple myeloma. 	Integrated Phosphoproteomics and Transcriptional Classifiers Reveal Hidden RAS Signaling Dynamics in Multiple Myeloma	KRAS, MAPK, NRAS, RAS, kinase, machine learning, myeloma, phosphoproteomics, signaling	A major driver of multiple myeloma (MM) is thought to be aberrant signaling, yet no kinase inhibitors have proven successful in the clinic. Here, we employed an integrated, systems approach combining phosphoproteomic and transcriptome analysis to dissect cellular signaling in MM to inform precision medicine strategies. Unbiased phosphoproteomics initially revealed differential activation of kinases across MM cell lines and that sensitivity to mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition may be particularly dependent on mTOR kinase baseline activity. We further noted differential activity of immediate downstream effectors of Ras as a function of cell line genotype. We extended these observations to patient transcriptome data in the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation CoMMpass study. A machine-learning-based classifier identified surprisingly divergent transcriptional outputs between NRAS- and KRAS-mutated tumors. Genetic dependency and gene expression analysis revealed mutated Ras as a selective vulnerability, but not other MAPK pathway genes. Transcriptional analysis further suggested that aberrant MAPK pathway activation is only present in a fraction of RAS-mutated vs wild-type RAS patients. These high-MAPK patients, enriched for NRAS Q61 mutations, have inferior outcomes, whereas RAS mutations overall carry no survival impact. We further developed an interactive software tool to relate pharmacologic and genetic kinase dependencies in myeloma. Collectively, these predictive models identify vulnerable signaling signatures and highlight surprising differences in functional signaling patterns between NRAS and KRAS mutants invisible to the genomic landscape. These results will lead to improved stratification of MM patients in precision medicine trials while also revealing unexplored modes of Ras biology in MM.
PXD013796	31699827	AZD4573 Is a Highly Selective CDK9 Inhibitor That Suppresses MCL-1 and Induces Apoptosis in Hematologic Cancer Cells. 	AZD4573 is a highly selective CDK9 inhibitor that suppresses Mcl-1 and induces apoptosis in hematological cancer cells	AZD4573, a selective CDK9 inhibitor, targets Mcl-1	PURPOSE: Cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (CDK9) is a transcriptional regulator and potential therapeutic target for many cancers. Multiple nonselective CDK9 inhibitors have progressed clinically but were limited by a narrow therapeutic window. This work describes a novel, potent, and highly selective CDK9 inhibitor, AZD4573. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The antitumor activity of AZD4573 was determined across broad cancer cell line panels in vitro as well as cell line- and patient-derived xenograft models in vivo. Multiple approaches, including integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, loss-of-function pathway interrogation, and pharmacologic comparisons, were employed to further understand the major mechanism driving AZD4573 activity and to establish an exposure/effect relationship. RESULTS: AZD4573 is a highly selective and potent CDK9 inhibitor. It demonstrated rapid induction of apoptosis and subsequent cell death broadly across hematologic cancer models in vitro, and MCL-1 depletion in a dose- and time-dependent manner was identified as a major mechanism through which AZD4573 induces cell death in tumor cells. This pharmacodynamic (PD) response was also observed in vivo, which led to regressions in both subcutaneous tumor xenografts and disseminated models at tolerated doses both as monotherapy or in combination with venetoclax. This understanding of the mechanism, exposure, and antitumor activity of AZD4573 facilitated development of a robust pharmacokinetic/PD/efficacy model used to inform the clinical trial design. CONCLUSIONS: Selective targeting of CDK9 enables the indirect inhibition of MCL-1, providing a therapeutic option for MCL-1-dependent diseases. Accordingly, AZD4573 is currently being evaluated in a phase I clinical trial for patients with hematologic malignancies (clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT03263637).See related commentary by Alcon et al., p. 761.
PXD015974	31699901	Noncompetitive binding of PpiD and YidC to the SecYEG translocon expands the global view on the SecYEG interactome in Escherichia coli. 	The SecYEG interactome of E. coli: non-competitive binding of PpiD and YidC to the SecYEG translocon	PpiD, SecYEG translocon, YidC, label-free proteomics, protein cross-linking	The SecYEG translocon constitutes the major protein transport channel in bacteria and transfers an enormous variety of different secretory and inner-membrane proteins. The minimal core of the SecYEG translocon consists of three inner-membrane proteins, SecY, SecE, and SecG, which, together with appropriate targeting factors, are sufficient for protein transport in vitro However, in vivo the SecYEG translocon has been shown to associate with multiple partner proteins, likely allowing the SecYEG translocon to process its diverse substrates. To obtain a global view on SecYEG plasticity in Escherichia coli, here we performed a quantitative interaction proteomic analysis, which identified several known SecYEG-interacting proteins, verified the interaction of SecYEG with quality-control proteins, and revealed several previously unknown putative SecYEG-interacting proteins. Surprisingly, we found that the chaperone complex PpiD/YfgM is the most prominent interaction partner of SecYEG. Detailed analyses of the PpiD-SecY interaction by site-directed cross-linking revealed that PpiD and the established SecY partner protein YidC use almost completely-overlapping binding sites on SecY. Both PpiD and YidC contacted the lateral gate, the plug domain, and the periplasmic cavity of SecY. However, quantitative MS and cross-linking analyses revealed that despite having almost identical binding sites, their binding to SecY is noncompetitive. This observation suggests that the SecYEG translocon forms different substrate-independent subassemblies in which SecYEG either associates with YidC or with the PpiD/YfgM complex. In summary, the results of this study indicate that the PpiD/YfgM chaperone complex is a primary interaction partner of the SecYEG translocon.
PXD012987	31699904	Reproducibility, Specificity and Accuracy of Relative Quantification Using Spectral Library-based Data-independent Acquisition. 	Reproducibility, specificity and accuracy of DIA quantification - Spectral Libraries	DIA, data-independent acquisition, label-free quantification, peptide identification, spectral library	Currently data-dependent acquisition (DDA) is the method of choice for mass spectrometry-based proteomics discovery experiments, but data-independent acquisition (DIA) is steadily becoming more important. One of the most important requirements to perform a DIA analysis is the availability of suitable spectral libraries for peptide identification and quantification. Several studies were performed addressing the evaluation of spectral library performance for protein identification in DIA measurements. But so far only few experiments estimate the effect of these libraries on the quantitative level.In this work we created a gold standard spike-in sample set with known contents and ratios of proteins in a complex protein matrix that allowed a detailed comparison of DIA quantification data obtained with different spectral library approaches. We used in-house generated sample-specific spectral libraries created using varying sample preparation approaches and repeated DDA measurement. In addition, two different search engines were tested for protein identification from DDA data and subsequent library generation. In total, eight different spectral libraries were generated, and the quantification results compared with a library free method, as well as a default DDA analysis. Not only the number of identifications on peptide and protein level in the spectral libraries and the corresponding DIA analysis results was inspected, but also the number of expected and identified differentially abundant protein groups and their ratios.We found, that while libraries of prefractionated samples were generally larger, there was no significant increase in DIA identifications compared with repetitive non-fractionated measurements. Furthermore, we show that the accuracy of the quantification is strongly dependent on the applied spectral library and whether the quantification is based on peptide or protein level. Overall, the reproducibility and accuracy of DIA quantification is superior to DDA in all applied approaches.Data has been deposited to the ProteomeXchange repository with identifiers PXD012986, PXD012987, PXD012988 and PXD014956.
PXD014557	31699905	The Proteome of the Dentate Terminal Zone of the Perforant Path Indicates Presynaptic Impairment in Alzheimer Disease. 	Microdissected brain tissue Alzheimer's	Alzheimers, metasynaptic regions	Synaptic dysfunction is an early pathogenic event in Alzheimer disease (AD) that contributes to network disturbances and cognitive decline. Some synapses are more vulnerable than others, including the synapses of the perforant path, which provides the main excitatory input to the hippocampus. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the dysfunction of these synapses, we performed an explorative proteomic study of the dentate terminal zone of the perforant path. The outer two-thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, where the perforant path synapses are located, was microdissected from five subjects with AD and five controls. The microdissected tissues were dissolved and digested by trypsin. Peptides from each sample were labeled with different isobaric tags, pooled together and pre-fractionated into 72 fractions by high-resolution isoelectric focusing. Each fraction was then analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. We quantified the relative expression levels of 7322 proteins, whereof 724 showed significantly altered levels in AD. Our comprehensive data analysis using enrichment and pathway analyses strongly indicated that presynaptic signaling, such as exocytosis and synaptic vesicle cycle processes, is severely disturbed in this area in AD, whereas postsynaptic proteins remained unchanged. Among the significantly altered proteins, we selected three of the most downregulated synaptic proteins; complexin-1, complexin-2 and synaptogyrin-1, for further validation, using a new cohort consisting of six AD and eight control cases. Semi-quantitative analysis of immunohistochemical staining confirmed decreased levels of complexin-1, complexin-2 and synaptogyrin-1 in the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in AD. Our in-depth proteomic analysis provides extensive knowledge on the potential molecular mechanism underlying synaptic dysfunction related to AD and supports that presynaptic alterations are more important than postsynaptic changes in early stages of the disease. The specific synaptic proteins identified could potentially be targeted to halt synaptic dysfunction in AD.
PXD016712	31699991	Protein lysine 43 methylation by EZH1 promotes AML1-ETO transcriptional repression in leukemia. 	Protein Lysine 43 Methylation by EZH1 Promotes AML1-ETO Transcriptional Repression	Protein Lysine 43 Methylation	The oncogenic fusion protein AML1-ETO retains the ability of AML1 to interact with the enhancer core DNA sequences, but blocks AML1-dependent transcription. Previous studies have shown that post-translational modification of AML1-ETO may play a role in its regulation. Here we report that AML1-ETO-positive patients, with high histone lysine methyltransferase Enhancer of zeste homolog 1 (EZH1) expression, show a worse overall survival than those with lower EZH1 expression. EZH1 knockdown impairs survival and proliferation of AML1-ETO-expressing cells in vitro and in vivo. We find that EZH1 WD domain binds to the AML1-ETO NHR1 domain and methylates AML1-ETO at lysine 43 (Lys43). This requires the EZH1 SET domain, which augments AML1-ETO-dependent repression of tumor suppressor genes. Loss of Lys43 methylation by point mutation or domain deletion impairs AML1-ETO-repressive activity. These findings highlight the role of EZH1 in non-histone lysine methylation, indicating that cooperation between AML1-ETO and EZH1 and AML1-ETO site-specific lysine methylation promote AML1-ETO transcriptional repression in leukemia.
PXD015185	31700027	Rapid deacetylation of yeast Hsp70 mediates the cellular response to heat stress. 	Rapid acetylation of yeast Hsp70 mediates the cellular response to heat stress	Acetylation, Heat Stress, PTMs, Q-Exactive, Ssa1	Hsp70 is a highly conserved molecular chaperone critical for the folding of new and denatured proteins. While traditional models state that cells respond to stress by upregulating inducible HSPs, this response is relatively slow and is limited by transcriptional and translational machinery. Recent studies have identified a number of post-translational modifications (PTMs) on Hsp70 that act to fine-tune its function. We utilized mass spectrometry to determine whether yeast Hsp70 (Ssa1) is differentially modified upon heat shock. We uncovered four lysine residues on Ssa1, K86, K185, K354 and K562 that are deacetylated in response to heat shock. Mutation of these sites cause a substantial remodeling of the Hsp70 interaction network of co-chaperone partners and client proteins while preserving essential chaperone function. Acetylation/deacetylation at these residues alter expression of other heat-shock induced chaperones as well as directly influencing Hsf1 activity. Taken together our data suggest that cells may have the ability to respond to heat stress quickly though Hsp70 deacetylation, followed by a slower, more traditional transcriptional response.
PXD010040	31700063	Tau interactome analyses in CRISPR-Cas9 engineered neuronal cells reveal ATPase-dependent binding of wild-type but not P301L Tau to non-muscle myosins. 	Comparative interactome analyses of wild-type and P301L MAPT in two human neuronal cell lines	Alzheimer disease, MAPT, frontotemporal dementia, inducible expression, interactome, neuron, orbitrap, tau, tauopathy	Protein interactions of Tau are of interest in efforts to decipher pathogenesis in Alzheimer's disease, a subset of frontotemporal dementias, and other tauopathies. We CRISPR-Cas9 edited two human cell lines to generate broadly adaptable models for neurodegeneration research. We applied the system to inducibly express balanced levels of 3-repeat and 4-repeat wild-type or P301L mutant Tau. Following 12-h induction, quantitative mass spectrometry revealed the Parkinson's disease-causing protein DJ-1 and non-muscle myosins as Tau interactors whose binding to Tau was profoundly influenced by the presence or absence of the P301L mutation. The presence of wild-type Tau stabilized non-muscle myosins at higher steady-state levels. Strikingly, in human differentiated co-cultures of neuronal and glial cells, the preferential interaction of non-muscle myosins to wild-type Tau depended on myosin ATPase activity. Consistently, transgenic P301L Tau mice exhibited reduced phosphorylation of regulatory myosin light chains known to activate this ATPase. The direct link of Tau to non-muscle myosins corroborates independently proposed roles of Tau in maintaining dendritic spines and mitochondrial fission biology, two subcellular niches affected early in tauopathies.
PXD014857	31701127	Distinct CoREST complexes act in a cell-type-specific manner. 	The Drosophila CoREST interactome	Endogenous dCoREST co-immunoprecipitation, FLAG-tagged dCoREST-L co-immunoprecipitation, FLAG-tagged dCoREST-M co-immunoprecipitation, dCoREST proteome	CoREST has been identified as a subunit of several protein complexes that generate transcriptionally repressive chromatin structures during development. However, a comprehensive analysis of the CoREST interactome has not been carried out. We use proteomic approaches to define the interactomes of two dCoREST isoforms, dCoREST-L and dCoREST-M, in Drosophila. We identify three distinct histone deacetylase complexes built around a common dCoREST/dRPD3 core: A dLSD1/dCoREST complex, the LINT complex and a dG9a/dCoREST complex. The latter two complexes can incorporate both dCoREST isoforms. By contrast, the dLSD1/dCoREST complex exclusively assembles with the dCoREST-L isoform. Genome-wide studies show that the three dCoREST complexes associate with chromatin predominantly at promoters. Transcriptome analyses in S2 cells and testes reveal that different cell lineages utilize distinct dCoREST complexes to maintain cell-type-specific gene expression programmes: In macrophage-like S2 cells, LINT represses germ line-related genes whereas other dCoREST complexes are largely dispensable. By contrast, in testes, the dLSD1/dCoREST complex prevents transcription of germ line-inappropriate genes and is essential for spermatogenesis and fertility, whereas depletion of other dCoREST complexes has no effect. Our study uncovers three distinct dCoREST complexes that function in a lineage-restricted fashion to repress specific sets of genes thereby maintaining cell-type-specific gene expression programmes.
PXD014618	31703166	Characterization of Human Sperm Protamine Proteoforms through a Combination of Top-Down and Bottom-Up Mass Spectrometry Approaches. 	Characterization of human sperm protamine proteoforms through a combination of top-down and bottom-up mass spectrometry approaches	Top-down proteomics, bottom-up proteomics, electron transfer dissociation, male infertility., nonannotated proteins, phosphorylation, post-translational modifications, protamines, proteoforms, sperm	Protamine 1 (P1) and protamine 2 (P2) family are extremely basic, sperm-specific proteins, packing 85-95% of the paternal DNA. P1 is synthesized as a mature form, whereas P2 components (HP2, HP3, and HP4) arise from the proteolysis of the precursor (pre-P2). Due to the particular protamine physical-chemical properties, their identification by standardized bottom-up mass spectrometry (MS) strategies is not straightforward. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify the sperm protamine proteoforms profile, including their post-translational modifications, in normozoospermic individuals using two complementary strategies, a top-down MS approach and a proteinase-K-digestion-based bottom-up MS approach. By top-down MS, described and novel truncated P1 and pre-P2 proteoforms were identified. Intact P1, pre-P2, and P2 mature proteoforms and their phosphorylation pattern were also detected. Additionally, a +61 Da modification in different proteoforms was observed. By the bottom-up MS approach, phosphorylated residues for pre-P2, as well as the new P2 isoform 2, which is not annotated in the UniProtKB database, were revealed. Implementing these strategies in comparative studies of different infertile phenotypes, together with the evaluation of P1/P2 and pre-P2/P2 MS-derived ratios, would permit determining specific alterations in the protamine proteoforms and elucidate the role of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation dynamics in male fertility.
PXD010373	31704028	Trans-Synaptic Signaling through the Glutamate Receptor Delta-1 Mediates Inhibitory Synapse Formation in Cortical Pyramidal Neurons. 	Identification of glutamate receptor delta-1 interactome at synapses.	Grid1, brain, glutamate receptor, neuron, synapse	Fine orchestration of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic development is required for normal brain function, and alterations may cause neurodevelopmental disorders. Using sparse molecular manipulations in intact brain circuits, we show that the glutamate receptor delta-1 (GluD1), a member of ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs), is a postsynaptic organizer of inhibitory synapses in cortical pyramidal neurons. GluD1 is selectively required for the formation of inhibitory synapses and regulates GABAergic synaptic transmission accordingly. At inhibitory synapses, GluD1 interacts with cerebellin-4, an extracellular scaffolding protein secreted by somatostatin-expressing interneurons, which bridges postsynaptic GluD1 and presynaptic neurexins. When binding to its agonist glycine or D-serine, GluD1 elicits non-ionotropic postsynaptic signaling involving the guanine nucleotide exchange factor ARHGEF12 and the regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 1 PPP1R12A. Thus, GluD1 defines a trans-synaptic interaction regulating postsynaptic signaling pathways for the proper establishment of cortical inhibitory connectivity and challenges the dichotomy between iGluRs and inhibitory synaptic molecules.
PXD015722	31706945	Salivary proteins from dysplastic leukoplakia and oral squamous cell carcinoma and their potential for early detection. 	iTRAQ based quantitative proteomic analysis of human saliva to detect differential abundance of candidate proteins for early detection of Oral squamous cell carcinoma	Oral squamous cell carcinoma, early detection of oral cancer, iTRAQ, salivary proteomics, shot-gun proteomics	Dysplastic leukoplakia (LP) of the oral cavity is a potentially malignant condition for oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), early detection of which remains an unmet clinical need. In an effort to develop non-invasive biomarker based method for early detection of the disease, differential proteomic profiling was carried out with the saliva from patients with risk habits and diagnosed with LP and those with lymph node negative and positive OSCC in comparison to healthy controls with risk habits. Ninety three proteins were observed at elevated level (>=1.5 fold), and 30 were prioritized based on a scoring system comprising of confidence of identification, presence in the various specimen groups, functional relevance, and their secretory potential. Verification was carried out in independent patient cohorts for 8 selected, representative, upregulated proteins using ELISA. Three of them CD44, S100A7, and S100P were significantly altered in patients with LP as well as OSCC and can be regarded as a panel of biomarker candidates for early detection of the malignancy. Other members may also be investigated in a targeted manner to expand the portfolio of biomarkers for early detection. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015722. SIGNIFICANCE: There is an unmet clinical need for non-invasive, biomarker based methods for the improved early detection and the subsequent management of oral cancer. The study represents differential proteome profiling of the saliva of patients with oral dysplastic leukoplakia (LP) - a potentially malignant lesion, patients diagnosed with oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), and healthy controls to identify potential markers for the purpose of early detection of malignancy. From among the matched and prioritized proteins with elevated levels in the saliva of patients with LP and those with OSCC, eight were verified. Three of them - CD44, S100A7 and S100P appeared promising candidates as biomarkers for early detection of the neoplastic predisposition and may form the basis of clinical assays for this purpose.
PXD023104	31708494	ER-depletion lowering the 'hypothalamus-uterus-kidney' axis functions by perturbing the renal ERbeta/Ptgds signalling pathway. 	OVX-induced proteomic profile& HPL therapy	HPL, OVX, menopause	Researchers have long assumed that systematic estrogen fading might contribute to the sustained progression of menopausal degenerate syndromes, although definitive evidence has not been presented. Whether such findings represent a causal contribution or are the result of opportunistic messengers sent from the reproductive system to the brain is also a vital question. We constructed a multiscale network of the ovariectomy (OVX) induced estrogen receptors depletion (ER-depletion) model and integrated targeted proteomic, targeted lipidomic, cytochemical, and histopathological data across three tissues from the ovariectomy rodent model. We found that compared to control rats, OVX rats showed increased renal and uterine prostaglandin D2 synthase (Ptgds) expression and decreased hypothalamic Ptgds expression, abnormal Ptgds metabolites, the degenerate renal function profiles and decreased cognitive ability (learning and memory) in Morris water maze test. Importantly, we observed a regulatory relationship among ER (particularly ERbeta), the degree of the pathological phenotype, learning behavior test and the 'hypothalamus-uterus-kidney (HUK) axis functions. Collectively, this study elucidates that ER depletion promoted HUK aging is mostly attributed to a renal ERbeta/Ptgds signalling imbalance.
PXD014582	31708885	Deciphering the Functioning of Microbial Communities: Shedding Light on the Critical Steps in Metaproteomics. 	Impact of protein search database on metaproteomics outcomes	Bioinformatics, Metagenomics, Metaproteomics, Microbial Ecology	Unraveling the complex structure and functioning of microbial communities is essential to accurately predict the impact of perturbations and/or environmental changes. From all molecular tools available today to resolve the dynamics of microbial communities, metaproteomics stands out, allowing the establishment of phenotype-genotype linkages. Despite its rapid development, this technology has faced many technical challenges that still hamper its potential power. How to maximize the number of protein identification, improve quality of protein annotation, and provide reliable ecological interpretation are questions of immediate urgency. In our study, we used a robust metaproteomic workflow combining two protein fractionation approaches (gel-based versus gel-free) and four protein search databases derived from the same metagenome to analyze the same seawater sample. The resulting eight metaproteomes provided different outcomes in terms of (i) total protein numbers, (ii) taxonomic structures, and (iii) protein functions. The characterization and/or representativeness of numerous proteins from ecologically relevant taxa such as Pelagibacterales, Rhodobacterales, and Synechococcales, as well as crucial environmental processes, such as nutrient uptake, nitrogen assimilation, light harvesting, and oxidative stress response, were found to be particularly affected by the methodology. Our results provide clear evidences that the use of different protein search databases significantly alters the biological conclusions in both gel-free and gel-based approaches. Our findings emphasize the importance of diversifying the experimental workflow for a comprehensive metaproteomic study.
PXD005205	31708904	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal Peroxiredoxin Perturbation Upon Persistent Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis Virus Infection in Human Cells. 	Proteins modulated during persistent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection	2D-DIGE, LCMV, arenavirus, host response, peroxiredoxins	Experimental data indicate that during persistent infection, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) may both directly or indirectly modulate regulatory cellular processes and alter cellular functions that are not critical for survival, but are essential for cell homeostasis. In order to shed more light on these processes, two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) and MALDI-TOF tandem mass spectrometry were used to determine the proteome response of the HeLa cell line to persistent LCMV infection. Quantitative analysis revealed 24 differentially abundant proteins. Functional analysis showed that LCMV-responsive proteins were primarily involved in metabolism, stress, and the defense response. Among identified proteins, we discovered significant changes for peroxiredoxins, a family of antioxidant enzymes. Decreased amount of these antioxidant proteins correlated with elevation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in infected cells. Increased levels of ROS were accompanied by changes in the pattern of telomere restriction fragments (TRFs) in infected cells and mediated activation of hypoxia-inducible transcription factor-1 (HIF-1) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathways. Moreover, treatment with antioxidants resulted in reduced levels of viral nucleoprotein, indicating a connection between ROS-dependent signaling and viral replication.
PXD015569	31709285	Dataset for quantitative phospho-proteomics analysis of a serial hepatoma cell lines with increasing invasion and metastasis potential. 	Dataset for quantitative phospho-proteomics analysis of a serial hepatoma cell lines with increasing invasion and metastasis potential	hepatoma, invasion and metastasis, phospho-proteomics	Hepatoma is one of the most common malignant tumor, and most patients have very poor prognosis. Early prediction and intervention of the hepatoma recurrence/metastasis are the most effective way to improve the patients' clinical outcomes. Here, we used isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) based quantitative phospho-proteomics approach to identify biomarkers associated with hepatoma recurrence/metastasis in hepatoma cell lines with increasing metastasis ability. In total, 75 phosphorylated peptides corresponding to 60 phosphoproteins were significantly dysregulated. Bioinformatics analysis (GO, KEGG and IPA) allowed these data to be organized into distinct categories. These data represent the first in-depth proteomics analysis of a serial hepatoma cell lines with increasing invasion and metastasis potential. The data are related to (Xing et al., 2019).
PXD009666	31711240	HDAC inhibition induces expression of scaffolding proteins critical for tumor progression in pediatric glioma: focus on EBP50 and IRSp53. 	Proteomic response of diffuse midline glioma to HDAC inhibition reveals adjuvant anti-EBP50 therapy as novel therapeutic concept.	DMG, EBP50, HDAC inhibition, diffuse midline glioma, ezrin-radixin-moesin binding protein 50, label-free quantitative proteome analysis.	BACKGROUND: Diffuse midline glioma (DMG) is a pediatric malignancy with poor prognosis. Most children die less than one year after diagnosis. Recently, mutations in histone H3 have been identified and are believed to be oncogenic drivers. Targeting this epigenetic abnormality using histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors such as panobinostat (PS) is therefore a novel therapeutic option currently evaluated in clinical trials. METHODS: BH3 profiling revealed engagement in an irreversible apoptotic process of glioma cells exposed to PS confirmed by annexin-V/propidium iodide staining. Using proteomic analysis of 3 DMG cell lines, we identified 2 proteins deregulated after PS treatment. We investigated biological effects of their downregulation by silencing RNA but also combinatory effects with PS treatment in vitro and in vivo using a chick embryo DMG model. Electron microscopy was used to validate protein localization. RESULTS: Scaffolding proteins EBP50 and IRSp53 were upregulated by PS treatment. Reduction of these proteins in DMG cell lines leads to blockade of proliferation and migration, invasion, and an increase of apoptosis. EBP50 was found to be expressed in cytoplasm and nucleus in DMG cells, confirming known oncogenic locations of the protein. Treatment of glioma cells with PS together with genetic or chemical inhibition of EBP50 leads to more effective reduction of cell growth in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSION: Our data reveal a specific relation between HDAC inhibitors and scaffolding protein deregulation which might have a potential for therapeutic intervention for cancer treatment.
PXD014375	31711375	Mechanisms underlying the virulence regulation of new Vibrio alginolyticus ncRNA Vvrr1 with a comparative proteomic analysis. 	Vibrio alginolyticus iTRAQ    .	Vibrio alginolyticus, iTRAQ	The incidence of Vibrio alginolyticus infections has increased in recent years due to the influence of climate change and rising sea temperature. Vibrio virulence regulatory RNA 1 (Vvrr1) is a newly found noncoding RNA (ncRNA) predicted to be closely related to the adhesion ability of V. alginolyticus based on the previous RNA-seq. In this study, the target genes of Vvrr1 were fully screened and verified by constructing Vvrr1-overexpressing strains and using the proteome sequencing technology. Pyruvate kinase I (pykF) gene was predicted to be a chief target gene of Vvrr1 involved in virulence regulation. The adhesion ability, biofilm formation and virulence were significantly reduced in the Vvrr1-overexpressing and the pykF-silenced strain compared with the wild strains. Similar to the overexpression of Vvrr1, the silencing of pykF also reduced the expression level of virulence genes, such as ndk, eno, sdhB, glpF, and cysH. Meanwhile, by constructing the "pykF-GFP" fusion expression plasmid and using the GFP reporter gene analysis in Escherichia coli, the fluorescence intensity of the strain containing Vvrr1 whole ncRNA sequence vector was found to be significantly weakened. These indicated that Vvrr1 participated in the virulence regulation mechanism of V. alginolyticus by interacting with the virulence gene pykF.
PXD014228	31712630	Therapeutic potential of N-acetylcysteine in acrylamide acute neurotoxicity in adult zebrafish. 	Effects of N-acetylcysteine on the neurotoxicity induced by acute exposure to acrylamide	Danio, acetylcysteine, acrylamide, neurotoxicity	Two essential key events in acrylamide (ACR) acute neurotoxicity are the formation of adducts with nucleophilic sulfhydryl groups on cysteine residues of selected proteins in the synaptic terminals and the depletion of the glutathione (GSx) stores in neural tissue. The use of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been recently proposed as a potential antidote against ACR neurotoxicity, as this chemical is not only a well-known precursor of the reduced form of glutathione (GSH), but also is an scavenger of soft electrophiles such as ACR. In this study, the suitability of 0.3 and 0.75 mM NAC to protect against the neurotoxic effect of 0.75 mM ACR has been tested in vivo in adult zebrafish. NAC provided only a mild to negligible protection against the changes induced by ACR in the motor function, behavior, transcriptome and proteome. The permeability of NAC to cross blood-brain barrier (BBB) was assessed, as well as the ACR-scavenging activity and the gamma-glutamyl-cysteine ligase (gamma-GCL) and acylase I activities. The results show that ACR not only depletes GSx levels but also inhibits it synthesis from NAC/cysteine, having a dramatic effect over the glutathione system. Moreover, results indicate a very low NAC uptake to the brain, probably by a combination of low BBB permeability and high deacylation of NAC during the intestinal absorption. These results strongly suggest that the use of NAC is not indicated in ACR acute neurotoxicity treatment.
PXD015234	31712780	Non-reversible tissue fixation retains extracellular vesicles for in situ imaging. 	Non-reversible tissue fixation by EDC carbodiimide allows for imaging extracellular vesicles in situ	imaging extracellular vesicles fixation tissue	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are secreted nanosized particles with many biological functions and pathological associations. The inability to image EVs in fixed tissues has been a major limitation to understanding their role in healthy and diseased tissue microenvironments. Here, we show that crosslinking mammalian tissues with formaldehyde results in significant EV loss, which can be prevented by additional fixation with 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC) for visualization of EVs in a range of normal and cancer tissues.
PXD013705	31721589	Identification of a Collagen Marker in Urine Improves the Detection of Colorectal Liver Metastases. 	Identification of a collagen marker in urine improves the detection of colorectal liver metastases	Collagen, Colon cancer, Colorectal cancer, Colorectal liver metastases, Logistic regression model, Natural occurring peptides, PRM, Urine	Previously, we reported a combination of an urine collagen alpha-1(I) natural occurring peptide (NOP) AGPP(-OH)GEAGKP(-OH)GEQGVP(-OH)GDLGAP(-OH)GP (AGP) and serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) to have the potential to detect colorectal liver metastasis (CRLM). The combined method requires further adaption for better sensitivity and specificity prior to clinical implementation. This mass spectrometry study aimed to identify additional collagen NOPs in urine and determine the most discriminating NOP panel. We improved the combined method on the basis of analysis of urine samples from 100 healthy controls and 100 CRLM patients. Two additional NOPs were identified: GPPGEAGK(-OH)P(-OH)GEQGVP(-OH)GDLGAP(-OH)GP (GPP), collagen alpha-1(I), and GNDGARGSDGQPGPP(-OH)GP(-OH)P(-OH)GTAGFP(-OH)GSP(-OH)GAK(-OH)GEVGP (GND), collagen alpha-1(III). A molecular model combining NOPs (AGP, GPP, and GND) and CEA was generated. Molecules that did not contribute significantly were removed, resulting in a model consisting of GND and CEA. With this model, 88% sensitivity and 88% specificity were reached in the discovery set and 75% sensitivity and 100% specificity in the validation set (control, n = 12; CRLM, n = 10). The AUC of the ROC curve is significantly higher than the current model based on AGP and CEA (p = 3.3 x 10(-4)). The new model performs better than the currently used techniques in the clinic that have a 57-70% sensitivity and a 90-96% specificity.
PXD015864	31721811	Proteomic profiling of the thrombin-activated canine platelet secretome (CAPS). 	Dog platelets proteome by label-free quantiative LC-MS/MS analysis	Dog, LFQ, platelets, shutgun proteomics	Domestic dogs share the same environment as humans, and they represent a valuable animal model to study naturally-occurring human disease. Platelet proteomics holds promise for the discovery of biomarkers that capture the contribution of platelets to the pathophysiology of many disease states, however, canine platelet proteomic studies are lacking. Our study objectives were to establish a protocol for proteomic identification and quantification of the thrombin-activated canine platelet secretome (CAPS), and to compare the CAPS proteins to human and murine platelet proteomic data. Washed platelets were isolated from healthy dogs, and stimulated with saline (control) or gamma-thrombin (releasate). Proteins were separated by SDS-page, trypsin-digested and analyzed by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (MS). CAPS proteins were defined as those with a MS1-abundance ratio of two or more for releasate vs. unstimulated saline control. A total of 1,918 proteins were identified, with 908 proteins common to all dogs and 693 characterized as CAPS proteins. CAPS proteins were similar to human and murine platelet secretomes and were highly represented in hemostatic pathways. Differences unique to CAPS included replacement of platelet factor 4 with other cleavage products of platelet basic protein (e.g. interleukin-8), novel proteins (e.g. C-C motif chemokine 14), and proteins in relatively high (e.g. protease nexin-1) or low (e.g. von Willebrand factor) abundance. This study establishes the first in-depth platelet releasate proteome from healthy dogs with a reference database of 693 CAPS proteins. Similarities between CAPS and the human secretome confirm the utility of dogs as translational models of human disease, but we also identify differences unique to canine platelets. Our findings provide a resource for further investigations into disease-related CAPS profiles, and for comparative pathway analyses of platelet activation among species.
PXD010609	31722399	Transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair is coordinated by ubiquitin and SUMO in response to ultraviolet irradiation. 	Posttranslational modifications regulate cellular responses upon UV-induced DNA damage	CSA, CSB, DNA damage, SUMOylation, post-translational modification	Cockayne Syndrome (CS) is a severe neurodegenerative and premature aging autosomal-recessive disease, caused by inherited defects in the CSA and CSB genes, leading to defects in transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair (TC-NER) and consequently hypersensitivity to ultraviolet (UV) irradiation. TC-NER is initiated by lesion-stalled RNA polymerase II, which stabilizes the interaction with the SNF2/SWI2 ATPase CSB to facilitate recruitment of the CSA E3 Cullin ubiquitin ligase complex. However, the precise biochemical connections between CSA and CSB are unknown. The small ubiquitin-like modifier SUMO is important in the DNA damage response. We found that CSB, among an extensive set of other target proteins, is the most dynamically SUMOylated substrate in response to UV irradiation. Inhibiting SUMOylation reduced the accumulation of CSB at local sites of UV irradiation and reduced recovery of RNA synthesis. Interestingly, CSA is required for the efficient clearance of SUMOylated CSB. However, subsequent proteomic analysis of CSA-dependent ubiquitinated substrates revealed that CSA does not ubiquitinate CSB in a UV-dependent manner. Surprisingly, we found that CSA is required for the ubiquitination of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, RPB1. Combined, our results indicate that the CSA, CSB, RNA polymerase II triad is coordinated by ubiquitin and SUMO in response to UV irradiation. Furthermore, our work provides a resource of SUMO targets regulated in response to UV or ionizing radiation.
PXD013071	31723016	Mitochondrial Oxidative Phosphorylation Complex Regulates NLRP3 Inflammasome Activation and Predicts Patient Survival in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma. 	iTRAQ-based MS analysis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells with inflammasome activation	iTRAQ, inflammasome, mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, nasopharyngeal carcinoma	We previously reported that tumor inflammasomes play a key role in tumor control and act as favorable prognostic markers in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Activated inflammasomes frequently form distinguishable specks and govern the cellular secretion of IL-1beta. However, we know little about the biological and biochemical differences between cells with and without apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase-recruitment domain (ASC) speck formation. In this study, we used proteomic iTRAQ analysis to analyze the proteomes of NPC cells that differ in their ASC speck formation upon cisplatin treatment. We identified proteins that were differentially over-expressed in cells with specks, and found that they fell into two Gene ontology (GO) pathways: mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) and ubiquinone metabolism. We observed up-regulation of various components of the OxPhos machinery (including NDUFB3, NDUFB8 and ATP5B), and subsequently found that these changes lead to mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) production, which promotes the formation and activation of NLRP3 inflammasomes and subsequent pyroptosis. In NPC patients, better local recurrence-free survival was significantly associated with high-level expression of NDUFB8 (p = 0.037) and ATP5B (p = 0.029), as examined using immunohistochemistry. However, there were no significant associations between the expression of NDUFB8 and ATP5B with overall survival of NPC patients. Together, our results demonstrate that up-regulated mitochondrial OxPhos components are strongly associated with NLRP3 inflammasome activation in NPC. Our findings further suggest that high-level expression of OxPhos components could be markers for local recurrence and/or promising therapeutic targets in patients with NPC.
PXD014843	31723267	CDK phosphorylation of TRF2 controls t-loop dynamics during the cell cycle. 	A cell cycle switch in TRF2 controls t-loop dynamics and DNA secondary structure resolution across the genome	CDK, DNA repair, DNA replication, RTEL1, TRF2, cell cycle, genome stability, phosphatases, shelterin, t-loops, telomeres	The protection of telomere ends by the shelterin complex prevents DNA damage signalling and promiscuous repair at chromosome ends. Evidence suggests that the 3' single-stranded telomere end can assemble into a lasso-like t-loop configuration(1,2), which has been proposed to safeguard chromosome ends from being recognized as DNA double-strand breaks(2). Mechanisms must also exist to transiently disassemble t-loops to allow accurate telomere replication and to permit telomerase access to the 3' end to solve the end-replication problem. However, the regulation and physiological importance of t-loops in the protection of telomere ends remains unknown. Here we identify a CDK phosphorylation site in the shelterin subunit at Ser365 of TRF2, whose dephosphorylation in S phase by the PP6R3 phosphatase provides a narrow window during which the RTEL1 helicase can transiently access and unwind t-loops to facilitate telomere replication. Re-phosphorylation of TRF2 at Ser365 outside of S phase is required to release RTEL1 from telomeres, which not only protects t-loops from promiscuous unwinding and inappropriate activation of ATM, but also counteracts replication conflicts at DNA secondary structures that arise within telomeres and across the genome. Hence, a phospho-switch in TRF2 coordinates the assembly and disassembly of t-loops during the cell cycle, which protects telomeres from replication stress and an unscheduled DNA damage response.
PXD013838	31723270	Enamel proteome shows that Gigantopithecus was an early diverging pongine. 	Enamel proteome shows that Gigantopithecus was an early diverging pongine	Gigantopithecus, Pleistocene, enamel	Gigantopithecus blacki was a giant hominid that inhabited densely forested environments of Southeast Asia during the Pleistocene epoch(1). Its evolutionary relationships to other great ape species, and the divergence of these species during the Middle and Late Miocene epoch (16-5.3 million years ago), remain unclear(2,3). Hypotheses regarding the relationships between Gigantopithecus and extinct and extant hominids are wide ranging but difficult to substantiate because of its highly derived dentognathic morphology, the absence of cranial and post-cranial remains(1,3-6), and the lack of independent molecular validation. We retrieved dental enamel proteome sequences from a 1.9-million-year-old G. blacki molar found in Chuifeng Cave, China(7,8). The thermal age of these protein sequences is approximately five times greater than that of any previously published mammalian proteome or genome. We demonstrate that Gigantopithecus is a sister clade to orangutans (genus Pongo) with a common ancestor about 12-10 million years ago, implying that the divergence of Gigantopithecus from Pongo forms part of the Miocene radiation of great apes. In addition, we hypothesize that the expression of alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein, which has not been previously observed in enamel proteomes, had a role in the biomineralization of the thick enamel crowns that characterize the large molars in Gigantopithecus(9,10). The survival of an Early Pleistocene dental enamel proteome in the subtropics further expands the scope of palaeoproteomic analysis into geographical areas and time periods previously considered incompatible with the preservation of substantial amounts of genetic information.
PXD012556	31727681	Deep profiling and custom databases improve detection of proteoforms generated by alternative splicing. 	Deep profiling and custom databases improve detection of proteoforms generated by alternative splicing	Jurkat T cells, RNA-Seq, alternative splicing, nanoLC-MS/MS, proteoforms	Alternative pre-mRNA splicing has long been proposed to contribute greatly to proteome complexity. However, the extent to which mature mRNA isoforms are successfully translated into protein remains controversial. Here, we used high-throughput RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics to better evaluate the translation of alternatively spliced mRNAs. To increase proteome coverage and improve protein quantitation, we optimized cell fractionation and sample processing steps at both the protein and peptide level. Furthermore, we generated a custom peptide database trained on analysis of RNA-seq data with MAJIQ, an algorithm optimized to detect and quantify differential and unannotated splice junction usage. We matched tandem mass spectra acquired by data-dependent acquisition (DDA) against our custom RNA-seq based database, as well as SWISS-PROT and RefSeq databases to improve identification of splicing-derived proteoforms by 28% compared with use of the SWISS-PROT database alone. Altogether, we identified peptide evidence for 554 alternate proteoforms corresponding to 274 genes. Our increased depth and detection of proteins also allowed us to track changes in the transcriptome and proteome induced by T-cell stimulation, as well as fluctuations in protein subcellular localization. In sum, our data here confirm that use of generic databases in proteomic studies underestimates the number of spliced mRNA isoforms that are translated into protein and provides a workflow that improves isoform detection in large-scale proteomic experiments.
PXD012238	31727875	Deep proteome profiling of the hippocampus in the 5XFAD mouse model reveals biological process alterations and a novel biomarker of Alzheimer's disease. 	Deep proteome profiling of hippocampus in 5xFAD mouse model	5xFAD, Hippocampus, Label-free quantification, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, machine learning	Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is the most common type of dementia, is characterized by the deposition of extracellular amyloid plaques. To understand the pathophysiology of the AD brain, the assessment of global proteomic dynamics is required. Since the hippocampus is a major region affected in the AD brain, we performed hippocampal analysis and identified proteins that are differentially expressed between wild-type and 5XFAD model mice via LC-MS methods. To reveal the relationship between proteomic changes and the progression of amyloid plaque deposition in the hippocampus, we analyzed the hippocampal proteome at two ages (5 and 10 months). We identified 9,313 total proteins and 1411 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in 5- and 10-month-old wild-type and 5XFAD mice. We designated a group of proteins showing the same pattern of changes as amyloid beta (Abeta) as the Abeta-responsive proteome. In addition, we examined potential biomarkers by investigating secretory proteins from the Abeta-responsive proteome. Consequently, we identified vitamin K-dependent protein S (PROS1) as a novel microglia-derived biomarker candidate in the hippocampus of 5XFAD mice. Moreover, we confirmed that the PROS1 level in the serum of 5XFAD mice increases as the disease progresses. An increase in PROS1 is also observed in the sera of AD patients and shows a close correlation with AD neuroimaging markers in humans. Therefore, our quantitative proteome data obtained from 5XFAD model mice successfully predicted AD-related biological alterations and suggested a novel protein biomarker for AD.
PXD014437	31727937	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Comparison of 2D and 3D Adipocyte Cell Models Co-cultured with Macrophages Using Online 2D-nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS. 	iTRAQ-Based Quantitative Proteomic Comparison of 2D and 3D Adipocyte Cell Models Co-cultured with Macrophages Using Online 2D-nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS	3D-culture, Proteomic quantification, adipocytes, iTRAQ, macrophages	The demand for novel three-dimensional (3D) cell culture models of adipose tissue has been increasing, and proteomic investigations are important for determining the underlying causes of obesity, type II diabetes, and metabolic disorders. In this study, we performed global quantitative proteomic profiling of three 3D-cultured 3T3-L1 cells (preadipocytes, adipocytes and co-cultured adipocytes with macrophages) and their 2D-cultured counterparts using 2D-nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS with iTRAQ labelling. A total of 2,885 shared proteins from six types of adipose cells were identified and quantified in four replicates. Among them, 48 proteins involved in carbohydrate metabolism (e.g., PDHalpha, MDH1/2, FH) and the mitochondrial fatty acid beta oxidation pathway (e.g., VLCAD, ACADM, ECHDC1, ALDH6A1) were relatively up-regulated in the 3D co-culture model compared to those in 2D and 3D mono-cultured cells. Conversely, 12 proteins implicated in cellular component organisation (e.g., ANXA1, ANXA2) and the cell cycle (e.g., MCM family proteins) were down-regulated. These quantitative assessments showed that the 3D co-culture system of adipocytes and macrophages led to the development of insulin resistance, thereby providing a promising in vitro obesity model that is more equivalent to the in vivo conditions with respect to the mechanisms underpinning metabolic syndromes and the effect of new medical treatments for metabolic disorders.
PXD014511	31729028	Proteome analysis of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded colorectal adenomas reveals the heterogeneous nature of traditional serrated adenomas compared to other colorectal adenomas. 	Proteome analysis of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded colorectal adenomas reveals the heterogeneous nature of Traditional Serrated Adenoma compared to the other colorectal adenomas	Colon adenoma, FFPE, Label free quantification, Orbitrap fusion, Sessile serrated adenoma, Traditional serrated adenoma, formalin-xed parafn-embedded	Traditional serrated adenoma (TSA) remains the least understood of all the colorectal adenomas, although these lesions have been associated with a significant cancer risk, twice that of the conventional adenoma (CAD) and of the sessile serrated adenoma (SSA/P). This study was performed to investigate the proteomic profiles of the different colorectal adenomas to better understand the pathogenesis of TSA. We performed a global quantitative proteome analysis using the label-free quantification (LFQ) method on 44 colorectal adenoma (12 TSAs, 15 CADs, and 17 SSA/Ps) and 17 normal colonic mucosa samples, archived as formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded blocks. Unsupervised consensus hierarchical clustering applied to the whole proteomic profile of the 44 colorectal adenomas identified four subtypes: C1 and C2 were well-individualized clusters composed of all the CADs (15/15) and most of the SSA/Ps (13/17), respectively. This is consistent with the fact that CADs and SSA/Ps are homogeneous and distinct colorectal adenoma entities. In contrast, TSAs were subdivided into C3 and C4 clusters, consistent with the more heterogeneous entity of TSA at the morphologic and molecular levels. Comparison of the proteome expression profile between the adenoma subtypes and normal colonic mucosa further confirmed the heterogeneous nature of TSAs, which overlapped either on CADs or SSA/Ps, whereas CADs and SSAs formed homogeneous and distinct entities. Furthermore, we identified LEFTY1 a new potential marker for TSAs that may be relevant for the pathogenesis of TSA. LEFTY1 is an inhibitor of the Nodal/TGFbeta pathway, which we found to be one of the most overexpressed proteins specifically in TSAs. This finding was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Our study confirms that CADs and SSA/Ps form homogeneous and distinct colorectal adenoma entities, whereas TSAs are a heterogeneous entity and may arise from either SSA/Ps or from normal mucosa evolving through a process related to the CAD pathway. (c) 2019 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
PXD015790	31729379	Prolyl hydroxylase substrate adenylosuccinate lyase is an oncogenic driver in triple negative breast cancer. 	Prolyl Hydroxylase Substrate Adenylosuccinate Lyase Is An 2 Oncogenic Driver In Triple Negative Breast Cancer	Adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL), EglN2 prolyl hydroxylase, Protein hydroxylation	Protein hydroxylation affects protein stability, activity, and interactome, therefore contributing to various diseases including cancers. However, the transiency of the hydroxylation reaction hinders the identification of hydroxylase substrates. By developing an enzyme-substrate trapping strategy coupled with TAP-TAG or orthogonal GST- purification followed by mass spectrometry, we identify adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) as an EglN2 hydroxylase substrate in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). ADSL expression is higher in TNBC than other breast cancer subtypes or normal breast tissues. ADSL knockout impairs TNBC cell proliferation and invasiveness in vitro and in vivo. An integrated transcriptomics and metabolomics analysis reveals that ADSL activates the oncogenic cMYC pathway by regulating cMYC protein level via a mechanism requiring ADSL proline 24 hydroxylation. Hydroxylation-proficient ADSL, by affecting adenosine levels, represses the expression of the long non-coding RNA MIR22HG, thus upregulating cMYC protein level. Our findings highlight the role of ADSL hydroxylation in controlling cMYC and TNBC tumorigenesis.
PXD014899	31729880	Quantitative Proteomics of Enriched Esophageal and Gut Tissues from the Human Blood Fluke Schistosoma mansoni Pinpoints Secreted Proteins for Vaccine Development. 	Absolute Quantification of Schistosoma mansoni Esophageal Gland Products	QconCAT, Schistosoma mansoni, esophageal gland, gastrodermis, microexon genes, quantitative proteomics	Schistosomes are blood-dwelling helminth parasites that cause schistosomiasis, a debilitating disease resulting in inflammation and, in extreme cases, multiple organ damage. Major challenges to control the transmission persist, and the discovery of protective antigens remains of critical importance for vaccine development. Rhesus macaques can self-cure following schistosome infection, generating antibodies that target proteins from the tegument, gut, and esophagus, the last of which is the least investigated. We developed a dissection technique that permitted increased sensitivity in a comparative proteomics profiling of schistosome esophagus and gut. Proteome analysis of the male schistosome esophagus identified 13 proteins encoded by microexon genes (MEGs), 11 of which were uniquely located in the esophageal glands. Based on this and transcriptome information, a QconCAT was designed for the absolute quantification of selected targets. MEGs 12, 4.2, and 4.1 and venom allergen-like protein 7 were the most abundant, spanning over 245 million to 6 million copies per cell, while aspartyl protease, palmitoyl thioesterase, and galactosyl transferase were present at <1 million copies. Antigenic variation by alternative splicing of MEG proteins was confirmed together with a specialized machinery for protein glycosylation/secretion in the esophagus. Moreover, some gastrodermal secretions were highly enriched in the gut, while others were more uniformly distributed throughout the parasite, potentially indicating lysosomal activity. Collectively, our findings provide a more rational, better-oriented selection of schistosome vaccine candidates in the context of a proven model of protective immunity.
PXD013301	31731787	Proteomic Characterization of High-Density Lipoprotein Particles from Non-Diabetic Hemodialysis Patients. 	Proteome of HDL from non-diabetic hemodialysis patients	HDL hemodialysis LFQ-nanoLC-MSMS	Chronic kidney disease is associated with an increased cardiovascular risk, and altered biological properties of high-density lipoproteins (HDL) may play a role in these events. This study aimed to describe the HDL proteome from non-diabetic hemodialysis patients and identify potential pathways affected by the dysregulated expression of HDL proteins. HDL were sampled from nine non-diabetic hemodialysis (HD) and eight control patients. Samples were analyzed using a nano-RSLC coupled with a Q-Orbitrap. Data were processed by database searching using SequestHT against a human Swissprot database and quantified with a label-free quantification approach. Proteins that were in at least five of the eight control and six of the nine HD patients were analyzed. Analysis was based on pairwise ratios and the ANOVA hypothesis test. Among 522 potential proteins, 326 proteins were identified to be in the HDL proteome from HD and control patients, among which 10 were significantly upregulated and nine downregulated in HD patients compared to the control patients (p < 0.05). Up and downregulated proteins were involved in lipid metabolism, hemostasis, wound healing, oxidative stress, and apoptosis pathways. This difference in composition could partly explain HDL dysfunction in the chronic kidney disease (CKD) population and participate in the higher cardiovascular risk observed in this population.
PXD015083	31732549	Assessing Protein Sequence Database Suitability Using De Novo Sequencing. 	Assessing protein sequence database suitability using de novo sequencing	fasta, metaproteomics	The analysis of samples from unsequenced and/or understudied species as well as samples where the proteome is derived from multiple organisms poses two key questions. The first is whether the proteomic data obtained from an unusual sample type even contains peptide tandem mass spectra. The second question is whether an appropriate protein sequence database is available for proteomic searches. We describe the use of automated de novo sequencing for evaluating both the quality of a collection of tandem mass spectra and the suitability of a given protein sequence database for searching that data. Applications of this method include the proteome analysis of closely related species, metaproteomics, and proteomics of extinct organisms.
PXD016016	31732561	Structural insights into a HECT-type E3 ligase AREL1 and its ubiquitination activities in vitro. 	Structural insights into a HECT-type E3 ligase AREL1	HECT domain, apoptosis, apoptosis-resistant E3 ligase 1 (AREL1), autopolyubiquitination, cancer, posttranslational modifica, protein degradation, second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase (SMAC), structural biology, ubiquitination	The HECT E3 ligase family comprises three subfamilies: NEDD4 E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (NEDD4), HECT and RLD domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (HERC), and "other." Most previous studies have focused on the NEDD4 subfamily. Apoptosis-resistant E3 ligase 1 (AREL1) belongs to "other" subfamily HECT that inhibits apoptosis by ubiquitinating and degrading proapoptotic proteins. Here, we report the crystal structure of the extended HECT domain of AREL1 (amino acids (aa) 436-823) at 2.4 Aa resolution and its ubiquitination of the proapoptotic protein second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase (SMAC). We found that the extended HECT domain adopts an inverted, T-shaped, bilobed conformation and harbors an additional loop (aa 567-573) absent in all other HECT members. We also show that the N-terminal extended region (aa 436-482) preceding the HECT domain is indispensable for its stability and activity and that without this region, the HECT domain becomes inactive. AREL1 ubiquitinated SMAC, primarily on Lys(62) and Lys(191) We solved the crystal structure of the tetrameric form of SMAC to 2.8 Aa resolution, revealing the Lys(62) and Lys(191) locations. The AREL1 HECT domain assembled Lys(33)-, Lys(48)-, and Lys(63)-linked polyubiquitin chains. Moreover, E701A substitution in the AREL1 HECT domain substantially increased its autopolyubiquitination and SMAC ubiquitination activity, whereas deletion of the last three amino acids at the C terminus completely abrogated AREL1 autoubiquitination and reduced SMAC ubiquitination. Finally, an AREL1-specific ubiquitin variant inhibited SMAC ubiquitination in vitro Our findings may assist in the development of AREL1 inhibitors that block its anti-apoptotic activity in cancer.
PXD010254	31733993	Lineage-Restricted Regulation of SCD and Fatty Acid Saturation by MITF Controls Melanoma Phenotypic Plasticity. 	Regulation of SCD and fatty acid saturation by MITF controls melanoma phenotypic plasticity	MITF/ATF4/Stearoyl CoA desaturase/Melanoma/Phenotype-switching/Fatty acid saturation	Phenotypic and metabolic heterogeneity within tumors is a major barrier to effective cancer therapy. How metabolism is implicated in specific phenotypes and whether lineage-restricted mechanisms control key metabolic vulnerabilities remain poorly understood. In melanoma, downregulation of the lineage addiction oncogene microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) is a hallmark of the proliferative-to-invasive phenotype switch, although how MITF promotes proliferation and suppresses invasion is poorly defined. Here, we show that MITF is a lineage-restricted activator of the key lipogenic enzyme stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) and that SCD is required for MITF(High) melanoma cell proliferation. By contrast MITF(Low) cells are insensitive to SCD inhibition. Significantly, the MITF-SCD axis suppresses metastasis, inflammatory signaling, and an ATF4-mediated feedback loop that maintains de-differentiation. Our results reveal that MITF is a lineage-specific regulator of metabolic reprogramming, whereby fatty acid composition is a driver of melanoma phenotype switching, and highlight that cell phenotype dictates the response to drugs targeting lipid metabolism.
PXD014017	31735170	Immunopeptidomics of colorectal cancer organoids reveals a sparse HLA class I neoantigen landscape and no increase in neoantigens with interferon or MEK-inhibitor treatment. 	Immunopeptidomics of colorectal cancer organoids	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), colorectal cancer, immunopeptidomics, organoids	BACKGROUND: Patient derived organoids (PDOs) can be established from colorectal cancers (CRCs) as in vitro models to interrogate cancer biology and its clinical relevance. We applied mass spectrometry (MS) immunopeptidomics to investigate neoantigen presentation and whether this can be augmented through interferon gamma (IFNgamma) or MEK-inhibitor treatment. METHODS: Four microsatellite stable PDOs from chemotherapy refractory and one from a treatment naive CRC were expanded to replicates with 100 million cells each, and HLA class I and class II peptide ligands were analyzed by MS. RESULTS: We identified an average of 9936 unique peptides per PDO which compares favorably against published immunopeptidomics studies, suggesting high sensitivity. Loss of heterozygosity of the HLA locus was associated with low peptide diversity in one PDO. Peptides from genes without detectable expression by RNA-sequencing were rarely identified by MS. Only 3 out of 612 non-silent mutations encoded for neoantigens that were detected by MS. In contrast, computational HLA binding prediction estimated that 304 mutations could generate neoantigens. One hundred ninety-six of these were located in expressed genes, still exceeding the number of MS-detected neoantigens 65-fold. Treatment of four PDOs with IFNgamma upregulated HLA class I expression and qualitatively changed the immunopeptidome, with increased presentation of IFNgamma-inducible genes. HLA class II presented peptides increased dramatically with IFNgamma treatment. MEK-inhibitor treatment showed no consistent effect on HLA class I or II expression or the peptidome. Importantly, no additional HLA class I or II presented neoantigens became detectable with any treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Only 3 out of 612 non-silent mutations encoded for neoantigens that were detectable by MS. Although MS has sensitivity limits and biases, and likely underestimated the true neoantigen burden, this established a lower bound of the percentage of non-silent mutations that encode for presented neoantigens, which may be as low as 0.5%. This could be a reason for the poor responses of non-hypermutated CRCs to immune checkpoint inhibitors. MEK-inhibitors recently failed to improve checkpoint-inhibitor efficacy in CRC and the observed lack of HLA upregulation or improved peptide presentation may explain this.
PXD014064	31735293	TMX2 Is a Crucial Regulator of Cellular Redox State, and Its Dysfunction Causes Severe Brain Developmental Abnormalities. 	TMX2 is a key regulator of cellular redox state and its dysfunction causes severe brain developmental abnormalities.	TMX2, brain developmental abnormalities, redox state	The redox state of the neural progenitors regulates physiological processes such as neuronal differentiation and dendritic and axonal growth. The relevance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated oxidoreductases in these processes is largely unexplored. We describe a severe neurological disorder caused by bi-allelic loss-of-function variants in thioredoxin (TRX)-related transmembrane-2 (TMX2); these variants were detected by exome sequencing in 14 affected individuals from ten unrelated families presenting with congenital microcephaly, cortical polymicrogyria, and other migration disorders. TMX2 encodes one of the five TMX proteins of the protein disulfide isomerase family, hitherto not linked to human developmental brain disease. Our mechanistic studies on protein function show that TMX2 localizes to the ER mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs), is involved in posttranslational modification and protein folding, and undergoes physical interaction with the MAM-associated and ER folding chaperone calnexin and ER calcium pump SERCA2. These interactions are functionally relevant because TMX2-deficient fibroblasts show decreased mitochondrial respiratory reserve capacity and compensatory increased glycolytic activity. Intriguingly, under basal conditions TMX2 occurs in both reduced and oxidized monomeric form, while it forms a stable dimer under treatment with hydrogen peroxide, recently recognized as a signaling molecule in neural morphogenesis and axonal pathfinding. Exogenous expression of the pathogenic TMX2 variants or of variants with an in vitro mutagenized TRX domain induces a constitutive TMX2 polymerization, mimicking an increased oxidative state. Altogether these data uncover TMX2 as a sensor in the MAM-regulated redox signaling pathway and identify it as a key adaptive regulator of neuronal proliferation, migration, and organization in the developing brain.
PXD014992	31735627	The Leukemogenic TCF3-HLF Complex Rewires Enhancers Driving Cellular Identity and Self-Renewal Conferring EP300 Vulnerability. 	Interactome of the TCF3-HLF fusion protein	AP-MS, FLAG-tagged fusion protein	The chimeric transcription factor TCF3-HLF defines an incurable acute lymphoblastic leukemia subtype. Here we decipher the regulome of endogenous TCF3-HLF and dissect its essential transcriptional components and targets by functional genomics. We demonstrate that TCF3-HLF recruits HLF binding sites at hematopoietic stem cell/myeloid lineage associated (super-) enhancers to drive lineage identity and self-renewal. Among direct targets, hijacking an HLF binding site in a MYC enhancer cluster by TCF3-HLF activates a conserved MYC-driven transformation program crucial for leukemia propagation in vivo. TCF3-HLF pioneers the cooperation with ERG and recruits histone acetyltransferase p300 (EP300), conferring susceptibility to EP300 inhibition. Our study provides a framework for targeting driving transcriptional dependencies in this fatal leukemia.
PXD015513	31735695	Development and Characterization of a Wee1 Kinase Degrader. 	Development and Characterization of a Wee1 Kinase Degrader	CRBN, PROTAC, Wee1, cancer, crl4, ubiquitin	The G1/S cell cycle checkpoint is frequently dysregulated in cancer, leaving cancer cells reliant on a functional G2/M checkpoint to prevent excessive DNA damage. Wee1 regulates the G2/M checkpoint by phosphorylating CDK1 at Tyr15 to prevent mitotic entry. Previous drug development efforts targeting Wee1 resulted in the clinical-grade inhibitor, AZD1775. However, AZD1775 is burdened by dose-limiting adverse events, and has off-target PLK1 activity. In an attempt to overcome these limitations, we developed Wee1 degraders by conjugating AZD1775 to the cereblon (CRBN)-binding ligand, pomalidomide. The resulting lead compound, ZNL-02-096, degrades Wee1 while sparing PLK1, induces G2/M accumulation at 10-fold lower doses than AZD1775, and synergizes with Olaparib in ovarian cancer cells. We demonstrate that ZNL-02-096 has CRBN-dependent pharmacology that is distinct from AZD1775, which justifies further evaluation of selective Wee1 degraders.
PXD016180	31735910	Life-long epigenetic programming of cortical architecture by maternal 'Western' diet during pregnancy. 	Life-long epigenetic programming of cortical architecture by maternal  Western ' diet during pregnancy	Epigenetic, Fetal Cortex, Maternal Diet, iTRAQ	The evolution of human diets led to preferences toward polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) content with 'Western' diets enriched in omega-6 PUFAs. Mounting evidence points to omega-6 PUFA excess limiting metabolic and cognitive processes that define longevity in humans. When chosen during pregnancy, omega-6 PUFA-enriched 'Western' diets can reprogram maternal bodily metabolism with maternal nutrient supply precipitating the body-wide imprinting of molecular and cellular adaptations at the level of long-range intercellular signaling networks in the unborn fetus. Even though unfavorable neurological outcomes are amongst the most common complications of intrauterine omega-6 PUFA excess, cellular underpinnings of life-long modifications to brain architecture remain unknown. Here, we show that nutritional omega-6 PUFA-derived endocannabinoids desensitize CB1 cannabinoid receptors, thus inducing epigenetic repression of transcriptional regulatory networks controlling neuronal differentiation. We found that cortical neurons lose their positional identity and axonal selectivity when mouse fetuses are exposed to excess omega-6 PUFAs in utero. Conversion of omega-6 PUFAs into endocannabinoids disrupted the temporal precision of signaling at neuronal CB1 cannabinoid receptors, chiefly deregulating Stat3-dependent transcriptional cascades otherwise required to execute neuronal differentiation programs. Global proteomics identified the immunoglobulin family of cell adhesion molecules (IgCAMs) as direct substrates, with DNA methylation and chromatin accessibility profiling uncovering epigenetic reprogramming at >1400 sites in neurons after prolonged cannabinoid exposure. We found anxiety and depression-like behavioral traits to manifest in adult offspring, which is consistent with genetic models of reduced IgCAM expression, to suggest causality for cortical wiring defects. Overall, our data uncover a regulatory mechanism whose disruption by maternal food choices could limit an offspring's brain function for life.
PXD013964	31736884	Broad Substrate-Specific Phosphorylation Events Are Associated With the Initial Stage of Plant Cell Wall Recognition in Neurospora crassa. 	Broad substrate-specific phosphorylation events associated with the initial stage of plant cell wall recognition in Neurospora crassa	degradation, phosphopeptides	Fungal plant cell wall degradation processes are governed by complex regulatory mechanisms, allowing the organisms to adapt their metabolic program with high specificity to the available substrates. While the uptake of representative plant cell wall mono- and disaccharides is known to induce specific transcriptional and translational responses, the processes related to early signal reception and transduction remain largely unknown. A fast and reversible way of signal transmission are post-translational protein modifications, such as phosphorylations, which could initiate rapid adaptations of the fungal metabolism to a new condition. To elucidate how changes in the initial substrate recognition phase of Neurospora crassa affect the global phosphorylation pattern, phospho-proteomics was performed after a short (2 min) induction period with several plant cell wall-related mono- and disaccharides. The MS/MS-based peptide analysis revealed large-scale substrate-specific protein phosphorylation and de-phosphorylations. Using the proteins identified by MS/MS, a protein-protein-interaction (PPI) network was constructed. The variance in phosphorylation of a large number of kinases, phosphatases and transcription factors indicate the participation of many known signaling pathways, including circadian responses, two-component regulatory systems, MAP kinases as well as the cAMP-dependent and heterotrimeric G-protein pathways. Adenylate cyclase, a key component of the cAMP pathway, was identified as a potential hub for carbon source-specific differential protein interactions. In addition, four phosphorylated F-Box proteins were identified, two of which, Fbx-19 and Fbx-22, were found to be involved in carbon catabolite repression responses. Overall, these results provide unprecedented and detailed insights into a so far less well known stage of the fungal response to environmental cues and allow to better elucidate the molecular mechanisms of sensory perception and signal transduction during plant cell wall degradation.
PXD014887	31737616	Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells' Secretome Exerts Neuroprotective Effects in a Parkinson's Disease Rat Model. 	Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells' secretome exerts neuroprotective effects in a Parkinson's disease rat model	Mesenchymal Stem Cells, Neuroprotection, Parkinsons diasese, Secretome, dopamine neurons	Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a selective loss of dopamine (DA) neurons in the human midbrain causing motor dysfunctions. The exact mechanism behind dopaminergic cell death is still not completely understood and, so far, no cure or neuroprotective treatment for PD is available. Recent studies have brought attention to the variety of bioactive molecules produced by mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), generally referred to as the secretome. Herein, we evaluated whether human MSCs-bone marrow derived (hBMSCs) secretome would be beneficial in a PD pre-clinical model, when compared directly with cell transplantation of hBMSCs alone. We used a 6-hydroxydpomanie (6-OHDA) rat PD model, and motor behavior was evaluated at different time points after treatments (1, 4, and 7 weeks). The impact of the treatments in the recovery of DA neurons was estimated by determining TH-positive neuronal densities in the substantia nigra and fibers in the striatum, respectively, at the end of the behavioral characterization. Furthermore, we determined the effect of the hBMSCs secretome on the neuronal survival of human neural progenitors in vitro, and characterized the secretome through proteomic-based approaches. This work demonstrates that the injection of hBMSCs secretome led to the rescue of DA neurons, when compared to transplantation of hBMSCs themselves, which can explain the recovery of secretome-injected animals' behavioral performance in the staircase test. Moreover, we observed that hBMSCs secretome induces higher levels of in vitro neuronal differentiation. Finally, the proteomic analysis revealed that hBMSCs secrete important exosome-related molecules, such as those related with the ubiquitin-proteasome and histone systems. Overall, this work provided important insights on the potential use of hBMSCs secretome as a therapeutic tool for PD, and further confirms the importance of the secreted molecules rather than the transplantation of hBMSCs for the observed positive effects. These could be likely through normalization of defective processes in PD, namely proteostasis or altered gene transcription, which lately can lead to neuroprotective effects.
PXD015010	31737970	Plasma membrane proteome of adhesion-competent endometrial epithelial cells and its modulation by Rab11a. 	Plasma membrane proteome of adhesion-competent endometrial epithelial cells and its modulation by Rab11a	Endometrium, Epithelium, Ishikawa, Plasma membrane	Human endometrial epithelium (EE) is composed of a multitude of proteins, amongst which those localized on the plasma membrane [plasma membrane proteins (PMPs)] are of critical relevance in the early stages of implantation. Evidence supports the key role of few PMPs in implantation. However, many remain unidentified, as efforts have not been made till date to generate the plasma membrane proteome of human EE cells, using a gel-free approach. This study presents a protein catalog of the PMP enriched fraction of Ishikawa cell line; often used as an in vitro model for embryo-adhesive EE. Liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry identified 3,598 proteins. Of these, 1,963 proteins were annotated for their membrane localization. Of 1,963 proteins, 1,321 were found to have a transmembrane domain and 43 proteins had glycophosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. Extensive data mining revealed endometrial expression of 943 proteins reported in humans and/or rodents. Further, quantitative alterations were observed in the plasma membrane proteome on the perturbation of intracellular trafficking. Silencing of Rab11a (known for its role in plasma membrane organization) expression caused alteration in the abundance of 74 proteins. Caveolin-1 and EpCAM levels were reduced whereas Rab4a abundance increased in the PMP extracts of Rab11a deficient cells, compared with control cells. Briefly, the study reports the identity of several novel plasma membrane-localized proteins. A major spin-off of the study is the identification of novel proteins trafficked by Rab11a to the plasma membrane. Targeted analysis of novel PMPs may reveal their specific roles in endometrial receptivity and implantation.
PXD015098	31738065	Systematic Comparison of Strategies for the Enrichment of Lysosomes by Data Independent Acquisition. 	Systematic comparison of strategies for the enrichment of lysosomes by data independent acquisition	Lysosomes, data independent acquisition (DIA), enrichment methods	In mammalian cells, the lysosome is the main organelle for the degradation of macromolecules and the recycling of their building blocks. Correct lysosomal function is essential, and mutations in every known lysosomal hydrolase result in so-called lysosomal storage disorders, a group of rare and often fatal inherited diseases. Furthermore, it is becoming more and more apparent that lysosomes play also decisive roles in other diseases, such as cancer and common neurodegenerative disorders. This leads to an increasing interest in the proteomic analysis of lysosomes for which enrichment is a prerequisite. In this study, we compared the four most common strategies for the enrichment of lysosomes using data-independent acquisition. We performed centrifugation at 20,000 x g to generate an organelle-enriched pellet, two-step sucrose density gradient centrifugation, enrichment by superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs), and immunoprecipitation using a 3xHA tagged version of the lysosomal membrane protein TMEM192. Our results show that SPIONs and TMEM192 immunoprecipitation outperform the other approaches with enrichment factors of up to 118-fold for certain proteins relative to whole cell lysates. Furthermore, we achieved an increase in identified lysosomal proteins and a higher reproducibility in protein intensities for label-free quantification in comparison to the other strategies.
PXD014750	31738517	TMTpro: Design, Synthesis, and Initial Evaluation of a Proline-Based Isobaric 16-Plex Tandem Mass Tag Reagent Set. 	TMTpro: Design and initial evaluation of a novel Proline-based isobaric 16-plex Tandem Mass Tag reagent set	TMT, TMTpro	The design and synthesis of a proline-based reporter isobaric Tandem Mass Tag structure (TMTpro) is presented. An analysis is made of the performance of the new TMTpro tags in comparison with the current commercially available dimethylpiperidine-reporter-based TMT10/11 reagents. The new reporter structure provides a set of 16 tags for use with resolution of 6.3 mDa mass differences in high resolution mass spectrometers and a set of 9 reagents with 1 Da spacing between reporter ions for single dalton analysis using 9 heavy nuclei per tag. We show similar performance in terms of peptide identification rates and quantification between the TMTpro 16-plex and TMT10/11-plex reagents. We also demonstrate the suitability of the TMTpro reagents for phosphopeptide analysis. The ability to pool 16 samples reduces the overall amount of sample required for each channel, and we anticipate that TMTpro reagents will be a useful enhancement for any protocol that benefits from sample pooling and should reduce missing data.
PXD015848	31738558	Upstream ORF-Encoded ASDURF Is a Novel Prefoldin-like Subunit of the PAQosome. 	Upstream ORF-encoded ASDURF is a novel prefoldin-like subunit of the PAQosome	AP-MS, ASDURF, BioID, PAQosome, R2TP/PFDL, chaperone, prefoldin, protein complex assembly, small ORF encoded peptide, uORF	The PAQosome is an 11-subunit chaperone involved in the biogenesis of several human protein complexes. We show that ASDURF, a recently discovered upstream open reading frame (uORF) in the 5' UTR of ASNSD1 mRNA, encodes the 12th subunit of the PAQosome. ASDURF displays significant structural homology to beta-prefoldins and assembles with the five known subunits of the prefoldin-like module of the PAQosome to form a heterohexameric prefoldin-like complex. A model of the PAQosome prefoldin-like module is presented. The data presented here provide an example of a eukaryotic uORF-encoded polypeptide whose function is not limited to cis-acting translational regulation of downstream coding sequence and highlights the importance of including alternative ORF products in proteomic studies.
PXD010508	31738831	Activated neutrophils exert myeloid-derived suppressor cell activity damaging T cells beyond repair. 	Activated neutrophils exert myeloid-derived suppressor cell activity, damaging T cells beyond repair	MDSC, large T cells, small T cells	Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) have the capacity to suppress T-cell-mediated immune responses and impact the clinical outcome of cancer, infections, and transplantation settings. Although MDSCs were initially described as bone marrow-derived immature myeloid cells (either monocytic or granulocytic MDSCs), mature neutrophils have been shown to exert MDSC activity toward T cells in ways that remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that human neutrophils from both healthy donors and cancer patients do not exert MDSC activity unless they are activated. By using neutrophils with genetically well-defined defects, we found that reactive oxygen species (ROS) and granule-derived constituents are required for MDSC activity after direct CD11b-dependent interactions between neutrophils and T cells. In addition to these cellular interactions, neutrophils are engaged in the uptake of pieces of T-cell membrane, a process called trogocytosis. Together, these interactions led to changes in T-cell morphology, mitochondrial dysfunction, and adenosine triphosphate depletion, as indicated by electron microscopy, mass spectrometry, and metabolic parameters. Our studies characterize the different steps by which activated mature neutrophils induce functional T-cell nonresponsiveness and irreparable cell damage.
PXD012676	31739156	Fingolimod downregulates brain sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 levels but does not promote remyelination or neuroprotection in the cuprizone model. 	Fingolimod and remyelination -  Fingolimod downregulates brain sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 levels but does not promote remyelination or neuroprotection in the cuprizone model	Brain, CPZ, QE-HF, TMT, fingolimod, multiplexing, tissue	Fingolimod is used to treat patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis; it crosses the blood-brain barrier and modulates sphingosine-1-phosphate receptors (S1PRs). Oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, microglia, and neuronal cells express S1PRs, and fingolimod could potentially improve remyelination and be neuroprotective. We used the cuprizone animal model, histo-, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative proteomics to study the effect of fingolimod on remyelination and axonal damage. Fingolimod was functionally active during remyelination by downregulating S1PR1 brain levels, and fingolimod-treated mice had more oligodendrocytes in the secondary motor cortex after three weeks of remyelination. However, there were no differences in remyelination or axonal damage compared to placebo. Thus, fingolimod does not seem to directly promote remyelination or protect against axonal injury or loss when given after cuprizone-induced demyelination.
PXD015429	31740596	Galnt11 regulates kidney function by glycosylating the endocytosis receptor megalin to modulate ligand binding. 	Galnt11 differential tissue glycoproteomics	Kidney, Liver, Mouse Brain	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects more than 20 million Americans and ~10% of the population worldwide. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of kidney functional decline have identified genes associated with CKD, but the precise mechanisms by which they influence kidney function remained largely unexplored. Here, we examine the role of 1 GWAS-identified gene by creating mice deficient for Galnt11, which encodes a member of the enzyme family that initiates protein O-glycosylation, an essential posttranslational modification known to influence protein function and stability. We find that Galnt11-deficient mice display low-molecular-weight proteinuria and have specific defects in proximal tubule-mediated resorption of vitamin D binding protein, alpha1-microglobulin, and retinol binding protein. Moreover, we identify the endocytic receptor megalin (LRP2) as a direct target of Galnt11 in vivo. Megalin in Galnt11-deficient mice displays reduced ligand binding and undergoes age-related loss within the kidney. Differential mass spectrometry revealed specific sites of Galnt11-mediated glycosylation within mouse kidney megalin/LRP2 that are known to be involved in ligand binding, suggesting that O-glycosylation directly influences the ability to bind ligands. In support of this, recombinant megalin containing these sites displayed reduced albumin binding in cells deficient for Galnt11 Our results provide insight into the association between GALNT11 and CKD, and identify a role for Galnt11 in proper kidney function.
PXD015253	31740617	BMP signaling inhibition in Drosophila secondary cells remodels the seminal proteome and self and rival ejaculate functions. 	BMP-inhibition in Drosophila secondary cells remodels the seminal proteome, and self and rival ejaculate functions	reproduction, seminal fluid, sexual selection, sperm competition	Seminal fluid proteins (SFPs) exert potent effects on male and female fitness. Rapidly evolving and molecularly diverse, they derive from multiple male secretory cells and tissues. In Drosophila melanogaster, most SFPs are produced in the accessory glands, which are composed of ~1,000 fertility-enhancing "main cells" and ~40 more functionally cryptic "secondary cells." Inhibition of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in secondary cells suppresses secretion, leading to a unique uncoupling of normal female postmating responses to the ejaculate: refractoriness stimulation is impaired, but offspring production is not. Secondary-cell secretions might therefore make highly specific contributions to the seminal proteome and ejaculate function; alternatively, they might regulate more global-but hitherto undiscovered-SFP functions and proteome composition. Here, we present data that support the latter model. We show that in addition to previously reported phenotypes, secondary-cell-specific BMP signaling inhibition compromises sperm storage and increases female sperm use efficiency. It also impacts second male sperm, tending to slow entry into storage and delay ejection. First male paternity is enhanced, which suggests a constraint on ejaculate evolution whereby high female refractoriness and sperm competitiveness are mutually exclusive. Using quantitative proteomics, we reveal changes to the seminal proteome that surprisingly encompass alterations to main-cell-derived proteins, indicating important cross-talk between classes of SFP-secreting cells. Our results demonstrate that ejaculate composition and function emerge from the integrated action of multiple secretory cell types, suggesting that modification to the cellular make-up of seminal-fluid-producing tissues is an important factor in ejaculate evolution.
PXD015106	31740681	Quorum sensing modulates the formation of virulent Legionella persisters within infected cells. 	Quorum sensing elicits functionally distinct subpopulations of infectious Legionella	LFQ, Legionella	The facultative intracellular bacterium Legionella pneumophila replicates in environmental amoebae and in lung macrophages, and causes Legionnaires' disease. Here we show that L. pneumophila reversibly forms replicating and nonreplicating subpopulations of similar size within amoebae. The nonreplicating bacteria are viable and metabolically active, display increased antibiotic tolerance and a distinct proteome, and show high virulence as well as the capacity to form a degradation-resistant compartment. Upon infection of naive or interferon-gamma-activated macrophages, the nonreplicating subpopulation comprises ca. 10% or 50%, respectively, of the total intracellular bacteria; hence, the nonreplicating subpopulation is of similar size in amoebae and activated macrophages. The numbers of nonreplicating bacteria within amoebae are reduced in the absence of the autoinducer synthase LqsA or other components of the Lqs quorum-sensing system. Our results indicate that virulent, antibiotic-tolerant subpopulations of L. pneumophila are formed during infection of evolutionarily distant phagocytes, in a process controlled by the Lqs system.
PXD015298	31740855	Structure of an endosomal signaling GPCR-G protein-beta-arrestin megacomplex. 	Mapping phosphorylations on C-terminus of receptor	Arrestin, GPCR complex, Phosphorylation, in-gel digestion	Classically, G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are thought to activate G protein from the plasma membrane and are subsequently desensitized by beta-arrestin (beta-arr). However, some GPCRs continue to signal through G protein from internalized compartments, mediated by a GPCR-G protein-beta-arr 'megaplex'. Nevertheless, the molecular architecture of the megaplex remains unknown. Here, we present its cryo-electron microscopy structure, which shows simultaneous engagement of human G protein and bovine beta-arr to the core and phosphorylated tail, respectively, of a single active human chimeric beta2-adrenergic receptor with the C-terminal tail of the arginine vasopressin type 2 receptor (beta2V2R). All three components adopt their canonical active conformations, suggesting that a single megaplex GPCR is capable of simultaneously activating G protein and beta-arr. Our findings provide a structural basis for GPCR-mediated sustained internalized G protein signaling.
PXD011773	31740929	Comparative proteome and metabolome analyses of latex-exuding and non-exuding Taraxacum koksaghyz roots provide insights into laticifer biology. 	Temporal proteome analyses of the alternative rubber crop Taraxacum koksaghyz	BaRNase, Taraxacum koksaghyz, articulated laticifers, latex-deficient plant	Taraxacum koksaghyz has been identified as one of the most promising alternative rubber crops. Its high-quality rubber is produced in the latex of laticifers, a specialized cell type that is organized in a network of elongated tubules throughout the entire plant body. In order to gain insights into the physiological role(s) of latex and hence laticifer biology, we examine the effects of barnase-induced latex RNA degradation on the metabolite and protein compositions in the roots. We established high-quality datasets that enabled precise discrimination between cellular and physiological processes in laticifers and non-laticifer cell types of roots at different vegetative stages. We identified numerous latex-specific proteins, including a perilipin-like protein that has not been studied in plants yet. The barnase-expressing plants revealed a phenotype that did not exude latex, which may provide a valuable genetic basis for future studies of plant-environment interactions concerning latex and also help to clarify the evolution and arbitrary distribution of latex throughout the plant kingdom. The overview of temporal changes in composition and protein abundance provided by our data opens the way for a deeper understanding of the molecular interactions, reactions, and network relationships that underlie the different metabolic pathways in the roots of this potential rubber crop.
PXD013766	31741267	High-Throughput Quantitative Top-Down Proteomics: Histone H4. 	Top Down Histone H4 - SUM159 Butyrate	Histone H4, Top-Down	Proteins physiologically exist as "proteoforms" that arise from one gene and acquire additional function by post-translational modifications (PTM). When multiple PTMs coexist on single protein molecules, top-down proteomics becomes the only feasible method of characterization; however, most top-down methods have limited quantitative capacity and insufficient throughput to truly address proteoform biology. Here we demonstrate that top-down proteomics can be quantitative, reproducible, sensitive, and high throughput. The proteoforms of histone H4 are well studied both as a challenging proteoform identification problem and due to their essential role in the regulation of all eukaryotic DNA-templated processes. Much of histone H4's function is obfuscated from prevailing methods due to combinatorial mechanisms. Starting from cells or tissues, after an optimized protein purification process, the H4 proteoforms are physically separated by on-line C3 chromatography, narrowly isolated in MS1 and sequenced with ETD fragmentation. We achieve more than 30 replicates from a single 35-mm tissue culture dish by loading 55 ng of H4 on column. Parallelization and automation yield a sustained throughput of 12 replicates per day. We achieve reproducible quantitation (average biological Pearson correlations of 0.89) of hundreds of proteoforms (about 200-300) over almost six orders of magnitude and an estimated LLoQ of 0.001% abundance. We demonstrate the capacity of the method to precisely measure well-established changes with sodium butyrate treatment of SUM159 cells. We show that the data produced by a quantitative top-down method can be amenable to parametric statistical comparisons and is capable of delineating relevant biological changes at the full proteoform level.
PXD014198	31741433	Genome-wide CRISPR screening reveals genetic modifiers of mutant EGFR dependence in human NSCLC. 	Genome-wide CRISPR screening reveals genetic modifiers of mutant EGFR dependence in NSCLC	EGFR, cancer	EGFR-mutant NSCLCs frequently respond to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). However, the responses are not durable, and the magnitude of tumor regression is variable, suggesting the existence of genetic modifiers of EGFR dependency. Here, we applied a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening to identify genetic determinants of EGFR TKI sensitivity and uncovered putative candidates. We show that knockout of RIC8A, essential for G-alpha protein activation, enhanced EGFR TKI-induced cell death. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that RIC8A is a positive regulator of YAP signaling, activation of which rescued the EGFR TKI sensitizing phenotype resulting from RIC8A knockout. We also show that knockout of ARIH2, or other components in the Cullin-5 E3 complex, conferred resistance to EGFR inhibition, in part by promoting nascent protein synthesis through METAP2. Together, these data uncover a spectrum of previously unidentified regulators of EGFR TKI sensitivity in EGFR-mutant human NSCLC, providing insights into the heterogeneity of EGFR TKI treatment responses.
PXD012660	31741725	Single molecule characterization of individual extracellular vesicles from pancreatic cancer. 	LC-MS/MS proteomics analysis of Panc-1 EVs isolated using SEC	Extracellular vesicles	Biofluid-accessible extracellular vesicles (EVs) may represent a new means to improve the sensitivity and specificity of detecting disease. However, current methods to isolate EVs encounter challenges when they are used to select specific populations. Moreover, it has been difficult to comprehensively characterize heterogeneous EV populations at the single vesicle level. Here, we robustly assessed heterogeneous EV populations from cultured cell lines via nanoparticle tracking analysis, proteomics, transcriptomics, transmission electron microscopy, and quantitative single molecule localization microscopy (qSMLM). Using qSMLM, we quantified the size and biomarker content of individual EVs. We applied qSMLM to patient plasma samples and identified a pancreatic cancer-enriched EV population. Our goal is to advance single molecule characterization of EVs for early disease detection. Abbreviations: EV: Extracellular Vesicle; qSMLM: quantitative Single Molecule Localization Microscopy; PDAC: Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor 1; CA19-9: carbohydrate antigen 19-9; SEC: size exclusion chromatography; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin; AF647: Alexa Fluor 647; Ab: antibody; HPDEC: Healthy Pancreatic Ductal Epithelial Cell; TEM: Transmission Electron Microscopy.
PXD013687	31742788	A heme-binding protein produced by Haemophilus haemolyticus inhibits non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae. 	Identification of a novel haem-binding protein produced by Haemophilus haemolyticus	Haemophilus haemolyticus, haem, non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi)	Commensal bacteria serve as an important line of defense against colonisation by opportunisitic pathogens, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly explored. Here, we show that strains of a commensal bacterium, Haemophilus haemolyticus, make hemophilin, a heme-binding protein that inhibits growth of the opportunistic pathogen, non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) in culture. We purified the NTHi-inhibitory protein from H. haemolyticus and identified the hemophilin gene using proteomics and a gene knockout. An x-ray crystal structure of recombinant hemophilin shows that the protein does not belong to any of the known heme-binding protein folds, suggesting that it evolved independently. Biochemical characterisation shows that heme can be captured in the ferrous or ferric state, and with a variety of small heme-ligands bound, suggesting that hemophilin could function under a range of physiological conditions. Hemophilin knockout bacteria show a limited capacity to utilise free heme for growth. Our data suggest that hemophilin is a hemophore and that inhibition of NTHi occurs by heme starvation, raising the possibility that competition from hemophilin-producing H. haemolyticus could antagonise NTHi colonisation in the respiratory tract.
PXD012223	31744906	Integrated Meta-omics Approaches To Understand the Microbiome of Spontaneous Fermentation of Traditional Chinese Pu-erh Tea. 	A systemic view of microbial ecology in spontaneous fermentation of Chinese traditional pu-erh tea	Food fermentation, Meta-omics, Microbial ecology, Pu-erh tea	The microbiome in fermentation has direct impacts on the quality of fermented foods and is of great scientific and commercial interest. Despite considerable effort to explain the microbial metabolism associated with food fermentation, the role of the microbiome in pu-erh tea fermentation remains unknown. Here, we applied integrated meta-omics approaches to characterize the microbiome in two repeated fermentations of pu-erh tea. Metabarcoding analysis of bacterial 16S rRNA genes showed a decrease in the proportion of Proteobacteria and an increase in the abundance of Firmicutes during fermentation. Metabarcoding analysis of fungal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequence demonstrated that Rasamsonia, Thermomyces, and Aspergillus were dominant at the intermediate stage, whereas Aspergillus was dominant at other stages in fermentation. Metaproteomics analysis assigned primary microbial metabolic activity to metabolism and identified microbial carbohydrate-active enzymes involved in the degradation of polysaccharides including cellulose, xylan, xyloglucan, pectin, starch, lignin, galactomannan, and chitin. Metabolomics and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that levels of phenolic compounds, including gallates, decreased whereas contents of gallic acid and ellagic acid significantly increased after fermentation (P < 0.05). The changes in levels of gallates and gallic acid were associated with the hydrolysis of tannase. Glycoside hydrolases, phenol 2-monooxygenase, salicylaldehyde dehydrogenase, salicylate 1-monooxygenase, catechol O-methyltransferase, catechol dioxygenase, and quercetin 2,3-dioxygenases were hypothesized to be related to oxidation, conversion, or degradation of phenolic compounds. We demonstrated microbiota in fermentation and their function in the production of enzymes related to the degradation of polysaccharides, and metabolism of phenolic compounds, resulting in changes in metabolite contents and the quality of pu-erh tea.IMPORTANCE Fermented foods play important roles in diets worldwide and account for approximately one-third of all foods and beverages consumed. To date, traditional fermentation has used spontaneous fermentation. The microbiome in fermentation has direct impacts on the quality and safety of fermented foods and contributes to the preservation of traditional methods. Here, we used an integrated meta-omics approach to study the microbiome in the fermentation of pu-erh tea, which is a well-known Chinese fermented food with a special flavor and healthful benefits. This study advanced the knowledge of microbiota, metabolites, and enzymes in the fermentation of pu-erh tea. These novel insights shed light onto the complex microbiome in pu-erh fermentation and highlight the power of integrated meta-omics approaches in understanding the microbiome in food fermentation ecosystems.
PXD016209	31744933	NatB-Mediated N-Terminal Acetylation Affects Growth and Biotic Stress Responses. 	N-terminal acetylation by NatB in Arabidopsis thaliana	GAP test, N-acetylome, N-terminal acetylation, SILProNAQ, acetyltransferase, quantitative proteomics	N(~)-terminal acetylation (NTA) is one of the most abundant protein modifications in eukaryotes. In humans, NTA is catalyzed by seven N(alpha)-acetyltransferases (NatA-F and NatH). Remarkably, the plant Nat machinery and its biological relevance remain poorly understood, although NTA has gained recognition as a key regulator of crucial processes such as protein turnover, protein-protein interaction, and protein targeting. In this study, we combined in vitro assays, reverse genetics, quantitative N-terminomics, transcriptomics, and physiological assays to characterize the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) NatB complex. We show that the plant NatB catalytic (NAA20) and auxiliary subunit (NAA25) form a stable heterodimeric complex that accepts canonical NatB-type substrates in vitro. In planta, NatB complex formation was essential for enzymatic activity. Depletion of NatB subunits to 30% of the wild-type level in three Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion mutants (naa20-1, naa20-2, and naa25-1) caused a 50% decrease in plant growth. A complementation approach revealed functional conservation between plant and human catalytic NatB subunits, whereas yeast NAA20 failed to complement naa20-1 Quantitative N-terminomics of approximately 1000 peptides identified 32 bona fide substrates of the plant NatB complex. In vivo, NatB was seen to preferentially acetylate N termini starting with the initiator Met followed by acidic amino acids and contributed 20% of the acetylation marks in the detected plant proteome. Global transcriptome and proteome analyses of NatB-depleted mutants suggested a function of NatB in multiple stress responses. Indeed, loss of NatB function, but not NatA, increased plant sensitivity toward osmotic and high-salt stress, indicating that NatB is required for tolerance of these abiotic stressors.
PXD014675	31746214	In Situ Structural Restraints from Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry in Human Mitochondria. 	In Situ Structural Restraints from Crosslinking Mass Spectrometry in Human Mitochondria	ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, comparati, crosslinking mass spectrometry, human mitochondria, in situ large-scale structural biology, machine learning, non-cleavable DSS crosslinker	The field of structural biology is increasingly focusing on studying proteins in situ, i.e., in their greater biological context. Cross-linking mass spectrometry (CLMS) is contributing to this effort, typically through the use of mass spectrometry (MS)-cleavable cross-linkers. Here, we apply the popular noncleavable cross-linker disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS) to human mitochondria and identify 5518 distance restraints between protein residues. Each distance restraint on proteins or their interactions provides structural information within mitochondria. Comparing these restraints to protein data bank (PDB)-deposited structures and comparative models reveals novel protein conformations. Our data suggest, among others, substrates and protein flexibility of mitochondrial heat shock proteins. Through this study, we bring forward two central points for the progression of CLMS towards large-scale in situ structural biology: First, clustered conflicts of cross-link data reveal in situ protein conformation states in contrast to error-rich individual conflicts. Second, noncleavable cross-linkers are compatible with proteome-wide studies.
PXD015650	31746735	Receptor-specific interactome as a hub for rapid cue-induced selective translation in axons. 	LC-MSMS of DCC and Neuropilin-1 immunoprecipitated samples from Xenopus Laevis brains	DCC, LFQ, Neuropilin-1, Xenopus Laevis brains, immunoprecipitation	Extrinsic cues trigger the local translation of specific mRNAs in growing axons via cell surface receptors. The coupling of ribosomes to receptors has been proposed as a mechanism linking signals to local translation but it is not known how broadly this mechanism operates, nor whether it can selectively regulate mRNA translation. We report that receptor-ribosome coupling is employed by multiple guidance cue receptors and this interaction is mRNA-dependent. We find that different receptors associate with distinct sets of mRNAs and RNA-binding proteins. Cue stimulation of growing Xenopus retinal ganglion cell axons induces rapid dissociation of ribosomes from receptors and the selective translation of receptor-specific mRNAs. Further, we show that receptor-ribosome dissociation and cue-induced selective translation are inhibited by co-exposure to translation-repressive cues, suggesting a novel mode of signal integration. Our findings reveal receptor-specific interactomes and suggest a generalizable model for cue-selective control of the local proteome.
PXD013827	31747122	Upregulated Expression of Calcium-Dependent Annexin A6: A Potential Biomarker of Ovarian Carcinoma. 	Tissue Proteome Profiling of Ovarian cancer in Pakistani Population.	2D-PAGE, Ovarian cancer, Proteome profiling, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	PURPOSE: An early and accurate diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma (OC) may reduce morbidity and mortality of the patients. To improve the clinical outcome in OC patients, the present study is aimed at identifying robust biomarkers for early OC diagnosis. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In order to look for early-stage protein markers, a systematic protein profiling approach involving 2-dimensional electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometric analyses of human malignant and non-malignant ovarian biopsy samples, is performed. RESULTS: Six 2D gel spots, corresponding to five proteins, display statistically significant differential expression in the tumor tissues compared to benign controls (FDR <= 0.05; PMF score >= 79). Ingenuity pathway analysis predicts two proteins, that is, Ca(2+) -dependent membrane-binding protein annexin A6 (AnxA6) and the metabolic enzyme l-lactate dehydrogenase A chain, as potential predictive biomarkers. Increased expression of AnxA6 is further ascertained by Western blot and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay in the resected tissues and the plasma samples. The expression is found markedly increasing particularly in the advanced stage tumors. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The significant upregulation of AnxA6 in OC, reported for the first time, is likely to provide insight into the mechanism of OC progression, which may lead to the design of potential diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
PXD003915	31747426	Analysis of HER2 genomic binding in breast cancer cells identifies a global role in direct gene regulation. 	Analysis of HER2 genomic binding in breast cancer cells identifies a global role in direct gene regulation	HER2, RIME, breast cancer	HER2 is a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase, which plays a key role in breast cancer due to a common genomic amplification. It is used as a marker to stratify patients in the clinic and is targeted by a number of drugs including Trastuzumab and Lapatinib. HER2 has previously been shown to translocate to the nucleus. In this study, we have explored the properties of nuclear HER2 by analysing the binding of this protein to the chromatin in two breast cancer cell lines. We find genome-wide re-programming of HER2 binding after treatment with the growth factor EGF and have identified a de novo motif at HER2 binding sites. Over 2,000 HER2 binding sites are found in both breast cancer cell lines after EGF treatment, and according to pathway analysis, these binding sites were enriched near genes involved in protein kinase activity and signal transduction. HER2 was shown to co-localise at a small subset of regions demarcated by H3K4me1, a hallmark of functional enhancer elements and HER2/H3K4me1 co-bound regions were enriched near EGF regulated genes providing evidence for their functional role as regulatory elements. A chromatin bound role for HER2 was verified by independent methods, including Proximity Ligation Assay (PLA), which confirmed a close association between HER2 and H3K4me1. Mass spectrometry analysis of the chromatin bound HER2 complex identified EGFR and STAT3 as interacting partners in the nucleus. These findings reveal a global role for HER2 as a chromatin-associated factor that binds to enhancer elements to elicit direct gene expression events in breast cancer cells.
PXD013785	31747616	Dynamic Transcriptome-Proteome Correlation Networks Reveal Human Myeloid Differentiation and Neutrophil-Specific Programming. 	Dynamic transcriptome-proteome correlation networks reveal human myeloid differentiation and neutrophil-specific programming	Transcriptomics, myeloid differentiation, neutriphils	Human neutrophilic granulocytes form the largest pool of innate immune cells for host defense against bacterial and fungal pathogens. The dynamic changes that accompany the metamorphosis from a proliferating myeloid progenitor cell in the bone marrow into a mature non-dividing polymorphonuclear blood cell have remained poorly defined. Using mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics combined with transcriptomic data, we report on the dynamic changes of five developmental stages in the bone marrow and blood. Integration of transcriptomes and proteome unveils highly dynamic and differential interactions between RNA and protein kinetics during human neutrophil development, which can be linked to functional maturation of typical end-stage blood neutrophil killing activities.
PXD013319	31747680	A new antibiotic selectively kills Gram-negative pathogens. 	Thermal proteome profiling of darobactin in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, darobactin, drugs, target engagement, thermal proteome profiling	The current need for novel antibiotics is especially acute for drug-resistant Gram-negative pathogens(1,2). These microorganisms have a highly restrictive permeability barrier, which limits the penetration of most compounds(3,4). As a result, the last class of antibiotics that acted against Gram-negative bacteria was developed in the 1960s(2). We reason that useful compounds can be found in bacteria that share similar requirements for antibiotics with humans, and focus on Photorhabdus symbionts of entomopathogenic nematode microbiomes. Here we report a new antibiotic that we name darobactin, which was obtained using a screen of Photorhabdus isolates. Darobactin is coded by a silent operon with little production under laboratory conditions, and is ribosomally synthesized. Darobactin has an unusual structure with two fused rings that form post-translationally. The compound is active against important Gram-negative pathogens both in vitro and in animal models of infection. Mutants that are resistant to darobactin map to BamA, an essential chaperone and translocator that folds outer membrane proteins. Our study suggests that bacterial symbionts of animals contain antibiotics that are particularly suitable for development into therapeutics.
PXD015489	31748275	Contribution of proteasome-catalyzed peptide cis-splicing to viral targeting by CD8(+) T cells in HIV-1 infection. 	Contribution of proteasome-catalyzed peptide cis-splicing to viral targeting by CD8+ T cells in HIV-1 infection	CD8+ T cell, Peptide splicing, epitope discovery, human immunodeficiency virus, human leukocyte antigen, immunopeptidome, proteasome, spliced epitope, viral escape	Peptides generated by proteasome-catalyzed splicing of noncontiguous amino acid sequences have been shown to constitute a source of nontemplated human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) epitopes, but their role in pathogen-specific immunity remains unknown. CD8(+) T cells are key mediators of HIV type 1 (HIV-1) control, and identification of novel epitopes to enhance targeting of infected cells is a priority for prophylactic and therapeutic strategies. To explore the contribution of proteasome-catalyzed peptide splicing (PCPS) to HIV-1 epitope generation, we developed a broadly applicable mass spectrometry-based discovery workflow that we employed to identify spliced HLA-I-bound peptides on HIV-infected cells. We demonstrate that HIV-1-derived spliced peptides comprise a relatively minor component of the HLA-I-bound viral immunopeptidome. Although spliced HIV-1 peptides may elicit CD8(+) T cell responses relatively infrequently during infection, CD8(+) T cells primed by partially overlapping contiguous epitopes in HIV-infected individuals were able to cross-recognize spliced viral peptides, suggesting a potential role for PCPS in restricting HIV-1 escape pathways. Vaccine-mediated priming of responses to spliced HIV-1 epitopes could thus provide a novel means of exploiting epitope targets typically underutilized during natural infection.
PXD013256	31748520	Chaperone-mediated ordered assembly of the SAGA and NuA4 transcription co-activator complexes in yeast. 	Chaperone-mediated ordered assembly of the SAGA and NuA4 transcription co-activator complexes	Chaperone, Chromatin, Multimeric complex, Transcription	Transcription initiation involves the coordinated activities of large multimeric complexes, but little is known about their biogenesis. Here we report several principles underlying the assembly and topological organization of the highly conserved SAGA and NuA4 co-activator complexes, which share the Tra1 subunit. We show that Tra1 contributes to the overall integrity of NuA4, whereas, within SAGA, it specifically controls the incorporation of the de-ubiquitination module (DUB), as part of an ordered assembly pathway. Biochemical and functional analyses reveal the mechanism by which Tra1 specifically interacts with either SAGA or NuA4. Finally, we demonstrate that Hsp90 and its cochaperone TTT promote Tra1 de novo incorporation into both complexes, indicating that Tra1, the sole pseudokinase of the PIKK family, shares a dedicated chaperone machinery with its cognate kinases. Overall, our work brings mechanistic insights into the assembly of transcriptional complexes and reveals the contribution of dedicated chaperones to this process.
PXD007287	31748579	Identification of cell context-dependent YAP-associated proteins reveals beta1 and beta4 integrin mediate YAP translocation independently of cell spreading. 	UPLC-MS/MS of YAP co-IP during activating and inactivating plating conditions	MCF10A, YAP, co-IP, dense, mammary epithelial cells, sparse	Yes-associated protein (YAP) is a transcriptional regulator and mechanotransducer, relaying extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffness into proliferative gene expression in 2D culture. Previous studies show that YAP activation is dependent on F-actin stress fiber mediated nuclear pore opening, however the protein mediators of YAP translocation remain unclear. Here, we show that YAP co-localizes with F-actin during activating conditions, such as sparse plating and culturing on stiff 2D substrates. To identify proteins mediating YAP translocation, we performed co-immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry (co-IP/MS) for proteins that differentially associated with YAP under activating conditions. Interestingly, YAP preferentially associates with beta1 integrin under activating conditions, and beta4 integrin under inactivating conditions. In activating conditions, CRISPR/Cas9 knockout (KO) of beta1 integrin (DeltaITGB1) resulted in decreased cell area, which correlated with decreased YAP nuclear localization. DeltaITGB1 did not significantly affect the slope of the correlation between YAP nuclear localization with area, but did decrease overall nuclear YAP independently of cell spreading. In contrast, beta4 integrin KO (DeltaITGB4) cells showed no change in cell area and similarly decreased nuclear YAP. These results reveal proteins that differentially associate with YAP during activation, which may aid in regulating YAP nuclear translocation.
PXD016089	31748618	Identification of novel blood biomarkers of treatment response in cystic fibrosis pulmonary exacerbations by label-free quantitative proteomics. 	Identification of novel blood biomarkers of treatment response in cystic fibrosis pulmonary exacerbations by label-free quantitative proteomics	blood, cystic fibrosis, plasma, pulmonary exacerbations	Pulmonary exacerbations (PEx) are clinically impactful events for individuals with CF. Unfortunately, many CF individuals with PEx fail to regain their baseline lung function despite treatment. The objective of this study was to use unbiased proteomic technology to identify novel blood protein biomarkers that change following intravenous (IV) antibiotic treatment and to explore if changes correlate with clinical response by the end of treatment. Blood samples from 25 PEx events derived from 22 unique CF adults were collected within 24 hours of hospital admission, day 5, day 10, and IV antibiotic completion. Three-hundred and forty-six blood proteins were evaluated with label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) quantitative proteomics and immunoassays. Forty-seven plasma proteins changed significantly following 5 days of IV antibiotic treatment (q-value <= 0.10). Early change in IGF2R from hospital admission to day 5 correlated with overall change in symptom score (CFRSD-CRISS) by the end of treatment (r = -0.48, p-value = 0.04). Several plasma proteins identified and quantified by label-free LC-MS/MS changed early following treatment with IV antibiotics and many of these proteins are involved in complement activation and inflammatory/immune-related pathways. Early change in IGF2R correlated with symptom response following IV antibiotic treatment and requires further validation as a predictive biomarker of symptom response.
PXD015335	31751117	Multilayered N-Glycoproteome Profiling Reveals Highly Heterogeneous and Dysregulated Protein N-Glycosylation Related to Alzheimer's Disease. 	Multilayered N-glycoproteome Profiling Reveals Highly Heterogeneous and Dysregulated Protein N-glycosylations Related to Alzheimer's Disease	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), glycoproteomics alzheimers disease	Protein N-glycosylation is ubiquitous in the brain and is closely related to cognition and memory. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial disorder that lacks a clear pathogenesis and treatment. Aberrant N-glycosylation has been suggested to be involved in AD pathology. However, the systematic variations in protein N-glycosylation and their roles in AD have not been thoroughly investigated due to technical challenges. Here, we applied multilayered N-glycoproteomics to quantify the global protein expression levels, N-glycosylation sites, N-glycans, and site-specific N-glycopeptides in AD (APP/PS1 transgenic) and wild-type mouse brains. The N-glycoproteomic landscape exhibited highly complex site-specific heterogeneity in AD mouse brains. The generally dysregulated N-glycosylation in AD, which involved proteins such as glutamate receptors as well as fucosylated and oligomannose glycans, were explored by quantitative analyses. Furthermore, functional studies revealed the crucial effects of N-glycosylation on proteins and neurons. Our work provides a systematic multilayered N-glycoproteomic strategy for AD and can be applied to diverse biological systems.
PXD010685	31751591	Receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors block proliferation of TGEV mainly through p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. 	Receptor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Block proliferation of coronavirus mainly through p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways	Emerging coronaviruses, LC-MS/MS Analysis., RTKIs, Transmissible gastroenteritis virus	Emerging coronaviruses (CoVs) primarily cause severe gastroenteric or respiratory diseases in humans and animals, and no approved therapeutics are currently available. Here, A9, a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (RTKI) of the tyrphostin class, is identified as a robust inhibitor of transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) infection in cell-based assays. Moreover, A9 exhibited potent antiviral activity against the replication of various CoVs, including murine hepatitis virus (MHV), porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) and feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIPV). We further performed a comparative phosphoproteomic analysis to investigate the mechanism of action of A9 against TGEV infection in vitro. We specifically identified p38 and JNK1, which are the downstream molecules of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) required for efficient TGEV replication, as A9 targets through plaque assays, qRT-PCR and Western blotting assays. p38 and JNK1 inhibitors and RNA interference further showed that the inhibitory activity of A9 against TGEV infection was mainly mediated by the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. All these findings indicated that the RTKI A9 directly inhibits TGEV replication and that its inhibitory activity against TGEV replication mainly occurs by targeting p38, which provides vital clues to the design of novel drugs against CoVs.
PXD018293	31751824	Phosphoproteomics Enables Molecular Subtyping and Nomination of Kinase Candidates for Individual Patients of Diffuse-Type Gastric Cancer. 	Phospho-proteomics enables classification of cancer subtypes and nomination of druggable kinases for individual patients of diffuse-type gastric cancer	Diffuse-type Gastric cancer, Phosphoproteomics	The diffuse-type gastric cancer (DGC) constitutes a subgroup of gastric cancer with poor prognosis and no effective molecular therapies. Here, we report a phosphoproteomic landscape of DGC derived from 83 tumors together with their nearby tissues. Based on phosphorylation, DGC could be classified into three molecular subtypes with distinct overall survival (OS) and chemosensitivity. We identified 16 kinases whose activities were associated with poor OS. These activated kinases covered several cancer hallmark pathways, with the MTOR signaling network being the most frequently activated. We proposed a patient-specific strategy based on the hierarchy of clinically actionable kinases for prioritization of kinases for further clinical evaluation. Our global data analysis indicates that in addition to finding activated kinase pathways in DGC, large-scale phosphoproteomics could be used to classify DGCs into subtypes that are associated with distinct clinical outcomes as well as nomination of kinase targets that may be inhibited for cancer treatments.
PXD012283	31753726	Serum extracellular vesicles contain SPARC and LRG1 as biomarkers of colon cancer and differ by tumour primary location. 	serum exosomes contain SPARC and LRG1 as biomarkers for colon cancer and differ by tumor primary location	LRG1, SPARC, colon cancer, exosome, location, metastasis	BACKGROUND: Recently, the distinction between left- and right-sided colon cancer (LCC and RCC) has been brought into focus. RCC is associated with an inferior overall survival and progression-free survival. We aimed to perform a detailed analysis of the diversity of extracellular vesicles (EV) between LCC and RCC using quantitative proteomics and to identify for new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. METHODS: We isolated EVs from patients with LCC, RCC and healthy volunteers, and treated colorectal cancer cell line with serum-derived EVs. We then performed a quantitative proteomics analysis of the serum-derived EVs and cell line treated with EVs. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifiers PXD012283 and PXD012304. In addition, we assessed the performance of EV SPARC and LRG1 as diagnosis and prognosis biomarkers in colon cancer. FINDINGS: The expression profile of the serum EV proteome in patients with RCC was different from that of patients with LCC. Serum-derived EVs in RCC promoted cellular mobility more significantly than EVs derived from LCC. EV SPARC and LRG1 expression levels demonstrated area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve values of 0.95 and 0.93 for discriminating patients with colon cancer from healthy controls. Moreover, the expression levels of SPARC and LRG1 correlated with tumour sidedness and were predictive of tumour recurrence. INTERPRETATION: We identified differences in EV protein profiles between LCC and RCC. Serum-derived EVs of RCC may promote metastasis via upregulation of extracellular matrix (ECM)-related proteins, especially SPARC and LRG1, which may serve as diagnosis and prognosis biomarkers in colon cancer.
PXD016673	31753913	Systematic bromodomain protein screens identify homologous recombination and R-loop suppression pathways involved in genome integrity. 	Affinity Purification experiments for 24 human Bromodomain proteins involved in DNA repair and genome integrity (part 2 of 2)	AP-MS, Bromodomain, Chromatin, DNA damage response, DNA repair, Homologous Recombination, R-loops	Bromodomain proteins (BRD) are key chromatin regulators of genome function and stability as well as therapeutic targets in cancer. Here, we systematically delineate the contribution of human BRD proteins for genome stability and DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair using several cell-based assays and proteomic interaction network analysis. Applying these approaches, we identify 24 of the 42 BRD proteins as promoters of DNA repair and/or genome integrity. We identified a BRD-reader function of PCAF that bound TIP60-mediated histone acetylations at DSBs to recruit a DUB complex to deubiquitylate histone H2BK120, to allowing direct acetylation by PCAF, and repair of DSBs by homologous recombination. We also discovered the bromo-and-extra-terminal (BET) BRD proteins, BRD2 and BRD4, as negative regulators of transcription-associated RNA-DNA hybrids (R-loops) as inhibition of BRD2 or BRD4 increased R-loop formation, which generated DSBs. These breaks were reliant on topoisomerase II, and BRD2 directly bound and activated topoisomerase I, a known restrainer of R-loops. Thus, comprehensive interactome and functional profiling of BRD proteins revealed new homologous recombination and genome stability pathways, providing a framework to understand genome maintenance by BRD proteins and the effects of their pharmacological inhibition.
PXD015701	31754044	Citrullinome of Porphyromonas gingivalis Outer Membrane Vesicles: Confident Identification of Citrullinated Peptides. 	Confident identification of citrullinated peptides from P gingivalis	Citrullination, Citrulline, HFBA, Phorphyromonas gingivalis, Proteins	Porphyromonas gingivalis is a key pathogen in chronic periodontitis and has recently been mechanistically linked to the development of rheumatoid arthritis via the activity of peptidyl arginine deiminase generating citrullinated epitopes in the periodontium. In this project the outer membrane vesicles (OMV) from P. gingivalis W83 wild-type (WT), a W83 knock-out mutant of peptidyl arginine deiminase (DeltaPPAD), and a mutant strain expressing PPAD with the active site cysteine mutated to alanine (C351A), have been analyzed using a two-dimensional HFBA-based separation system combined with LC-MS. For optimal and positive identification and validation of citrullinated peptides and proteins, high resolution mass spectrometers and strict MS search criteria were utilized. This may have compromised the total number of identified citrullinations but increased the confidence of the validation. A new two-dimensional separation system proved to increase the strength of validation, and along with the use of an in-house build program, Citrullia, we establish a fast and easy semi-automatic (manual) validation of citrullinated peptides. For the WT OMV we identified 78 citrullinated proteins having a total of 161 citrullination sites. Notably, in keeping with the mechanism of OMV formation, the majority (51 out of 78) of citrullinated proteins were predicted to be exported via the inner membrane and to reside in the periplasm or being translocated to the bacterial surface. Citrullinated surface proteins may contribute to the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. For the C351A-OMV a single citrullination site was found and no citrullinations were identified for the DeltaPPAD-OMV, thus validating the unbiased character of our method of citrullinated peptide identification.
PXD015644	31754102	NAD(+) augmentation restores mitophagy and limits accelerated aging in Werner syndrome. 	NAD+ augmentation restores mitophagy and limits accelerated aging in Werner syndrome	NAD+, NMNAT1, WRN, aging, mitophagy	Metabolic dysfunction is a primary feature of Werner syndrome (WS), a human premature aging disease caused by mutations in the gene encoding the Werner (WRN) DNA helicase. WS patients exhibit severe metabolic phenotypes, but the underlying mechanisms are not understood, and whether the metabolic deficit can be targeted for therapeutic intervention has not been determined. Here we report impaired mitophagy and depletion of NAD(+), a fundamental ubiquitous molecule, in WS patient samples and WS invertebrate models. WRN regulates transcription of a key NAD(+) biosynthetic enzyme nicotinamide nucleotide adenylyltransferase 1 (NMNAT1). NAD(+) repletion restores NAD(+) metabolic profiles and improves mitochondrial quality through DCT-1 and ULK-1-dependent mitophagy. At the organismal level, NAD(+) repletion remarkably extends lifespan and delays accelerated aging, including stem cell dysfunction, in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster models of WS. Our findings suggest that accelerated aging in WS is mediated by impaired mitochondrial function and mitophagy, and that bolstering cellular NAD(+) levels counteracts WS phenotypes.
PXD013067	31754138	Untargeted histone profiling during naive conversion uncovers conserved modification markers between mouse and human. 	Untargeted histone profiling of human embryonic stem cell conversion over time reveals fundamental epigenetic changes between pluripotent and naive states	epigenetics, histone modification, human embryonic stem cells, nave, pluripotency	Recent progress has enabled the conversion of primed human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) to the naive state of pluripotency, resembling the well-characterized naive mouse ESCs (mESCs). However, a thorough histone epigenetic characterization of this conversion process is currently lacking, while its likeness to the mouse model has not been clearly established. Here, we profile the histone epigenome of hESCs during conversion in a time-resolved experimental design, using an untargeted mass spectrometry-based approach. In total, 23 histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) changed significantly over time. H3K27Me3 was the most prominently increasing marker hPTM in naive hESCs. This is in line with previous reports in mouse, prompting us to compare all the shared hPTM fold changes between mouse and human, revealing a set of conserved hPTM markers for the naive state. Principally, we present the first roadmap of the changing human histone epigenome during the conversion of hESCs from the primed to the naive state. This further revealed similarities with mouse, which hint at a conserved mammalian epigenetic signature of the ground state of pluripotency.
PXD008738	31755272	Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry in Metaproteomics of Gut Microbiota-Implementation and Computational Analysis. 	Implementation of data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry in metaproteomics of gut microbiota	DDA, DIA, LC, SWATH-MS	Metagenomic approaches focus on taxonomy or gene annotation but lack power in defining functionality of gut microbiota. Therefore, metaproteomics approaches have been introduced to overcome this limitation. However, the common metaproteomics approach uses data-dependent acquisition mass spectrometry, which is known to have limited reproducibility when analyzing samples with complex microbial composition. In this work, we provide a proof of concept for data-independent acquisition (DIA) metaproteomics. To this end, we analyze metaproteomes using DIA mass spectrometry and introduce an open-source data analysis software package, diatools, which enables accurate and consistent quantification of DIA metaproteomics data. We demonstrate the feasibility of our approach in gut microbiota metaproteomics using laboratory-assembled microbial mixtures as well as human fecal samples.
PXD015887	31757042	A Subcellular Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1-Infected HEK 293T Cells. 	Subcellular quantitative proteomic analysis of herpes simplex virus type 1 infected HEK 293T cells	CHCHD2, Herpes simplex virus type 1, IFITM3, Quantitative proteomics, TRIM27, virus-host interaction	Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is widespread double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) virus that establishes life-long latency and causes diverse severe symptoms. The mechanisms of HSV-1 infection and HSV-1's interactions with various host cells have been studied and reviewed extensively. Type I interferons were secreted by host cells upon HSV infection and play a vital role in controlling virus proliferation. A few studies, however, have focused on HSV-1 infection without the presence of interferon (IFN) signaling. In this study, HEK 293T cells with low toll-like receptor (TLR) and stimulator of interferon genes protein (STING) expression were infected with HSV-1 and subjected to a quantitative proteomic analysis. By using a subcellular fractionation strategy and high-performance mass spectrometry, a total of 6607 host proteins were quantified, of which 498 proteins were differentially regulated. A bioinformatics analysis indicated that multiple signaling pathways might be involved in HSV-1 infection. A further functional study indicated the role of Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3), Coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain-containing protein 2 (CHCHD2), and Tripartite motif-containing protein 27 (TRIM27) in inhibiting viral DNA replication and proliferation. Our data provide a global view of host responses to HSV-1 infection in HEK 293T cells and identify the proteins involved in the HSV-1 infection process.
PXD015738	31757939	Deletion of intestinal Hdac3 remodels the lipidome of enterocytes and protects mice from diet-induced obesity. 	Deletion of intestinal Hdac3 remodels the lipidome of enterocytes and protects mice from diet-induced obesity	HDAC3	Histone deacetylase 3 (Hdac3) regulates the expression of lipid metabolism genes in multiple tissues, however its role in regulating lipid metabolism in the intestinal epithelium is unknown. Here we demonstrate that intestine-specific deletion of Hdac3 (Hdac3(IKO)) protects mice from diet induced obesity. Intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) from Hdac3(IKO) mice display co-ordinate induction of genes and proteins involved in mitochondrial and peroxisomal beta-oxidation, have an increased rate of fatty acid oxidation, and undergo marked remodelling of their lipidome, particularly a reduction in long chain triglycerides. Many HDAC3-regulated fatty oxidation genes are transcriptional targets of the PPAR family of nuclear receptors, Hdac3 deletion enhances their induction by PPAR-agonists, and pharmacological HDAC3 inhibition induces their expression in enterocytes. These findings establish a central role for HDAC3 in co-ordinating PPAR-regulated lipid oxidation in the intestinal epithelium, and identify intestinal HDAC3 as a potential therapeutic target for preventing obesity and related diseases.
PXD012710	31757973	Arabidopsis proteome and the mass spectral assay library. 	Arabidopsis proteome spectral library	DIA, SWATH, Spectral library, TripleTOF 5600	Arabidopsis is an important model organism and the first plant with its genome completely sequenced. Knowledge from studying this species has either direct or indirect applications for agriculture and human health. Quantitative proteomics by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (SWATH/DIA-MS) was recently developed and is considered as a high-throughput, massively parallel targeted approach for accurate proteome quantification. In this approach, a high-quality and comprehensive spectral library is a prerequisite. Here, we generated an expression atlas of 10 organs of Arabidopsis and created a library consisting of 15,514 protein groups, 187,265 unique peptide sequences, and 278,278 precursors. The identified protein groups correspond to ~56.5% of the predicted proteome. Further proteogenomics analysis identified 28 novel proteins. We applied DIA-MS using this library to quantify the effect of abscisic acid on Arabidopsis. We were able to recover 8,793 protein groups of which 1,787 were differentially expressed. MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012708 and PXD012710 for data-dependent acquisition and PXD014032 for DIA analyses.
PXD012566	31758014	A mass spectrometry guided approach for the identification of novel vaccine candidates in gram-negative pathogens. 	A mass spectrometry guided pre-clinical funnel for the identification of novel vaccine candidates against Helicobacter pylori	Helicobacter pylori, surfome, vaccine	Vaccination is the most effective method to prevent infectious diseases. However, approaches to identify novel vaccine candidates are commonly laborious and protracted. While surface proteins are suitable vaccine candidates and can elicit antibacterial antibody responses, systematic approaches to define surfomes from gram-negatives have rarely been successful. Here we developed a combined discovery-driven mass spectrometry and computational strategy to identify bacterial vaccine candidates and validate their immunogenicity using a highly prevalent gram-negative pathogen, Helicobacter pylori, as a model organism. We efficiently isolated surface antigens by enzymatic cleavage, with a design of experiment based strategy to experimentally dissect cell surface-exposed from cytosolic proteins. From a total of 1,153 quantified bacterial proteins, we thereby identified 72 surface exposed antigens and further prioritized candidates by computational homology inference within and across species. We next tested candidate-specific immune responses. All candidates were recognized in sera from infected patients, and readily induced antibody responses after vaccination of mice. The candidate jhp_0775 induced specific B and T cell responses and significantly reduced colonization levels in mouse therapeutic vaccination studies. In infected humans, we further show that jhp_0775 is immunogenic and activates IFNgamma secretion from peripheral CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. Our strategy provides a generic preclinical screening, selection and validation process for novel vaccine candidates against gram-negative bacteria, which could be employed to other gram-negative pathogens.
PXD010506	31758065	Integrated Transcriptomics, Proteomics, and Glycomics Reveals the Association between Up-regulation of Sialylated N-glycans/Integrin and Breast Cancer Brain Metastasis. 	Integrated Transcriptomics, Proteomics and Glycomics for a Deeper Insight of the Mechanism of  Breast Cancer Brain Metastasis: Emphasizing on Glycosylation	Breast cancer brain metastasis, Glycomics, Integrative omics analysis, Transcriptomics	Breast cancer brain metastasis has been recognized as one of the central issues in breast cancer research. The elucidation of the processes and pathways that mediate this step will provide important clues for a better understanding of breast cancer metastasis. Increasing evidence suggests that aberrant glycosylation patterns greatly contribute to cell invasion and cancer metastasis. Herein, we combined next-generation RNA sequencing with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-based proteomic and N-glycomic analysis from five breast cancer cell lines and one brain cancer cell line to investigate the possible mechanisms of breast cancer brain metastasis. The genes/proteins associated with cell movement were highlighted in breast cancer brain metastasis. The integrin signaling pathway and the up-regulation of alpha-integrin (ITGA2, ITGA3) were associated with the brain metastatic process. 12 glycogenes showed unique expression in 231BR, which could result in an increase of sialylation during brain metastasis. In agreement with the changes of glycogenes, 60 out of 63 N-glycans that were identified exhibited differential expression among cell lines. The correlation between glycogenes and glycans revealed the importance of sialylation and sialylated glycans in breast cancer brain metastasis. Highly sialylated N-glycans, which were up-regulated in brain-seeking cell line 231BR, likely play a role in brain metastasis.
PXD014555	31758572	A PhotoClick cholesterol-based quantitative proteomics screen for cytoplasmic sterol-binding proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	A PhotoClick cholesterol-based quantitative proteomics screen for cytoplasmic sterol binding proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	LC-MS2, chemical biology, sterol	Ergosterol is a prominent component of the yeast plasma membrane and essential for yeast cell viability. It is synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum and transported to the plasma membrane by nonvesicular mechanisms requiring carrier proteins. Oxysterol-binding protein homologues and yeast StARkin proteins have been proposed to function as sterol carriers. Although many of these proteins are capable of transporting sterols between synthetic lipid vesicles in vitro, they are not essential for ergosterol transport in cells, indicating that they may be functionally redundant with each other or with additional-as yet unidentified-sterol carriers. To address this point, we hypothesized that sterol transport proteins are also sterol-binding proteins (SBPs), and used an in vitro chemoproteomic strategy to identify all cytosolic SBPs. We generated a cytosol fraction enriched in SBPs and captured the proteins with a photoreactive clickable cholesterol analogue. Quantitative proteomics of the captured proteins identified 342 putative SBPs. Analysis of these identified proteins based on their annotated function, reported drug phenotypes, interactions with proteins regulating lipid metabolism, gene ontology, and presence of mammalian orthologues revealed a subset of 62 characterized and nine uncharacterized candidates. Five of the uncharacterized proteins play a role in maintaining plasma membrane integrity as their absence affects the ability of cells to grow in the presence of nystatin or myriocin. We anticipate that the dataset reported here will be a comprehensive resource for functional analysis of sterol-binding/transport proteins and provide insights into novel aspects of non-vesicular sterol trafficking.
PXD011250	31759822	TFIIIC Binding to Alu Elements Controls Gene Expression via Chromatin Looping and Histone Acetylation. 	TFIIIC dinamically binds Alu elements to control gene expression through chromatin looping	Alu, TFIIIC, breast cancer	How repetitive elements, epigenetic modifications, and architectural proteins interact ensuring proper genome expression remains poorly understood. Here, we report regulatory mechanisms unveiling a central role of Alu elements (AEs) and RNA polymerase III transcription factor C (TFIIIC) in structurally and functionally modulating the genome via chromatin looping and histone acetylation. Upon serum deprivation, a subset of AEs pre-marked by the activity-dependent neuroprotector homeobox Protein (ADNP) and located near cell-cycle genes recruits TFIIIC, which alters their chromatin accessibility by direct acetylation of histone H3 lysine-18 (H3K18). This facilitates the contacts of AEs with distant CTCF sites near promoter of other cell-cycle genes, which also become hyperacetylated at H3K18. These changes ensure basal transcription of cell-cycle genes and are critical for their re-activation upon serum re-exposure. Our study reveals how direct manipulation of the epigenetic state of AEs by a general transcription factor regulates 3D genome folding and expression.
PXD013136	31760169	Quantitative Proteomic Map of the Trypanosomatid Strigomonas culicis: The Biological Contribution of its Endosymbiotic Bacterium. 	Quantitative proteomic map of the trypanosomatid Strigomonas culicis: the biological contribution of its endosymbiotic bacterium	amino acid metabolism, and folding, endosymbiont-bearing trypanosomatid, energetic metabolism, protein synthesis	Strigomonas culicis is a kinetoplastid parasite of insects that maintains a mutualistic association with an intracellular symbiotic bacterium, which is highly integrated into the protist metabolism: it furnishes essential compounds and divides in synchrony with the eukaryotic nucleus. The protist, conversely, can be cured of the endosymbiont, producing an aposymbiotic cell line, which presents a diminished ability to colonize the insect host. This obligatory association can represent an intermediate step of the evolution towards the formation of an organelle, therefore representing an interesting model to understand the symbiogenesis theory. Here, we used shotgun proteomics to compare the S. culicis endosymbiont-containing and aposymbiotic strains, revealing a total of 11,305 peptides, and up to 2,213 proteins (2,029 and 1,452 for wild type and aposymbiotic, respectively). Gene ontology associated to comparative analysis between both strains revealed that the biological processes most affected by the elimination of the symbiont were the amino acid synthesis, as well as protein synthesis and folding. This large-scale comparison of the protein expression in S. culicis marks a step forward in the comprehension of the role of endosymbiotic bacteria in monoxenous trypanosomatid biology, particularly because trypanosomatids expression is mostly post-transcriptionally regulated.
PXD015026	31763404	A spiked human proteomic dataset from human osteogenic differentiated BMSCs and ASCs for use as a spectral library, for modelling pathways as well as protein mapping. 	A spiked human proteomic dataset from human osteogenic differentiated BMSCs and ASCs for use as a spectral library, for modelling pathways as well as protein mapping	data-independent acquisition analysis, nanoHPLC-ESI-MS/MS, osteogenic differentiated mesenchymal stem cells	This article describes a mass spectrometry data set generated from osteogenic differentiated bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) and adipose tissue derived stromal cells (ASCs) of a 24-year old healthy donor. Before osteogenic differentiation and performing mass spectrometric measurements cells have been characterized as mesenchymal stromal cells via FACS-analysis positive for CD90 and CD105 and negative for CD14, CD34, CD45 and CD11b and tri-lineage differentiation. After osteogenic differentiation, both cell types were homogenized and then fractionated by SDS gel electrophoresis, resulting in 12 fractions. The proteins underwent an in-gel digestion, spiked with iRT peptides and analysed by nanoHPLC-ESI-MS/MS, resulting in 24 data files. The data files generated from the described workflow are hosted in the public repository ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015026. The presented data set can be used as a spectral library for analysis of key proteins in the context of osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stromal cells for regenerative applications. Moreover, these data can be used to perform comparative proteomic analysis of different mesenchymal stromal cells or stem cells upon osteogenic differentiation. In addition, these data can also be used to determine the optimal settings for measuring proteins and peptides of interest.
PXD014757	31763849	Label-Free Interactome Analysis Revealed an Essential Role of CUL3-KEAP1 Complex in Mediating the Ubiquitination and Degradation of PHD2. 	Quantitative interactome analysis of PHD2	EGLN1, PHD2, hypoxia, ubiquitination	Prolyl hydroxylase domain-containing protein 2 (PHD2/EGLN1) is a key regulatory enzyme that plays a fundamental role in the cellular hypoxic response pathway, mediating proline hydroxylation-dependent protein degradation of selected target proteins. However, the regulation of PHD2 homeostasis at the protein level is not well understood. Here, we perform label-free quantitative interactome analysis through immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry analysis. To minimize the side effects caused by ectopic overexpression, in HeLa cells, we stably overexpressed Flag-tagged PHD2 while suppressing the endogenous PHD2 by using an shRNA targeting its 3' UTR region. We identified and validated Cullin 3 as a novel PHD2 interactor in vivo. Through candidate screening, we further identified CUL3-KEAP1 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex as the major enzyme that regulates PHD2 degradation. Overexpression of either CUL3, KEAP1, or both significantly increases PHD2 ubiquitination and reduces PHD2 protein abundance. The knockdown of CUL3 or KEAP1 decreased PHD2 ubiquitination and inhibited PHD2 degradation. Accordingly, loss of the CUL3-KEAP1 complex under hypoxia promoted PHD2 stabilization and led to significantly reduced abundance of the PHD2 target, hypoxia-inducible factor 1A (HIF1A). Thus, CUL3-KEAP1 is an essential pathway that regulates PHD2 ubiquitination and degradation in cells.
PXD016056	31766224	Recovery in the Myogenic Program of Congenital Myotonic Dystrophy Myoblasts after Excision of the Expanded (CTG)n Repeat. 	Recovery in the intrinsic myogenic program of congenital myotonic dystrophy myoblasts after excision of the expanded (CTG)n repeat	genome editing, myoblasts, myogenesis, myotonic dystrophy, transcriptomics, triplet repeat	The congenital form of myotonic dystrophy type 1 (cDM) is caused by the large-scale expansion of a (CTG*CAG)n repeat in DMPK and DM1-AS. The production of toxic transcripts with long trinucleotide tracts from these genes results in impairment of the myogenic differentiation capacity as cDM's most prominent morpho-phenotypic hallmark. In the current in vitro study, we compared the early differentiation programs of isogenic cDM myoblasts with and without a (CTG)2600 repeat obtained by gene editing. We found that excision of the repeat restored the ability of cDM myoblasts to engage in myogenic fusion, preventing the ensuing myotubes from remaining immature. Although the cDM-typical epigenetic status of the DM1 locus and the expression of genes therein were not altered upon removal of the repeat, analyses at the transcriptome and proteome level revealed that early abnormalities in the temporal expression of differentiation regulators, myogenic progression markers, and alternative splicing patterns before and immediately after the onset of differentiation became normalized. Our observation that molecular and cellular features of cDM are reversible in vitro and can be corrected by repeat-directed genome editing in muscle progenitors, when already committed and poised for myogenic differentiation, is important information for the future development of gene therapy for different forms of myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1).
PXD012876	31767173	Steroidogenic control of liver metabolism through a nuclear receptor-network. 	Steroidogenic Control of Liver Metabolism Through a Nuclear Receptor-Network	Fusion, Liver Metabolism	OBJECTIVE: Coupling metabolic and reproductive pathways is essential for the survival of species. However, the functions of steroidogenic enzymes expressed in metabolic tissues are largely unknown. METHODS AND RESULTS: Here, we show that in the liver, the classical steroidogenic enzyme Cyp17a1 forms an essential nexus for glucose and ketone metabolism during feed-fast cycles. Both gain- and loss-of-function approaches are used to show that hepatic Cyp17a1 is induced by fasting, catalyzes the production of at least one hormone-ligand (DHEA) for the nuclear receptor PPARalpha, and is ultimately required for maintaining euglycemia and ketogenesis during nutrient deprivation. The feedback-loop that terminates Cyp17a1-PPARalpha activity, and re-establishes anabolic liver metabolism during re-feeding is mapped to postprandial bile acid-signaling, involving the receptors FXR, SHP and LRH-1. CONCLUSIONS: Together, these findings represent a novel paradigm of homeostatic control in which nutritional cues feed-forward on to metabolic pathways by influencing extragonadal steroidogenesis.
PXD012790	31767855	JASPer controls interphase histone H3S10 phosphorylation by chromosomal kinase JIL-1 in Drosophila. 	JASPer controls interphase histone H3S10 phosphorylation by chromosomal kinase JIL-1 in Drosophila	BOD1, Compass, Dpy30-L1, H3K36me3, H3S10ph, JIL-1, PWWP, Set1, b-JIM, chromatin	In flies, the chromosomal kinase JIL-1 is responsible for most interphase histone H3S10 phosphorylation and has been proposed to protect active chromatin from acquiring heterochromatic marks, such as dimethylated histone H3K9 (H3K9me2) and HP1. Here, we show that JIL-1's targeting to chromatin depends on a PWWP domain-containing protein JASPer (JIL-1 Anchoring and Stabilizing Protein). JASPer-JIL-1 (JJ)-complex is the major form of kinase in vivo and is targeted to active genes and telomeric transposons via binding of the PWWP domain of JASPer to H3K36me3 nucleosomes, to modulate transcriptional output. JIL-1 and JJ-complex depletion in cycling cells lead to small changes in H3K9me2 distribution at active genes and telomeric transposons. Finally, we identify interactors of the endogenous JJ-complex and propose that JIL-1 not only prevents heterochromatin formation but also coordinates chromatin-based regulation in the transcribed part of the genome.
PXD015608	31767869	LncRNA REG1CP promotes tumorigenesis through an enhancer complex to recruit FANCJ helicase for REG3A transcription. 	LncRNA REG1CP promotes tumorigenesis through an enhancer complex to recruit FANCJ helicase for REG3A transcription	CRC, FANCJ, REG1CP, REG3A	Protein products of the regenerating islet-derived (REG) gene family are important regulators of many cellular processes. Here we functionally characterise a non-protein coding product of the family, the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) REG1CP that is transcribed from a DNA fragment at the family locus previously thought to be a pseudogene. REG1CP forms an RNA-DNA triplex with a homopurine stretch at the distal promoter of the REG3A gene, through which the DNA helicase FANCJ is tethered to the core promoter of REG3A where it unwinds double stranded DNA and facilitates a permissive state for glucocorticoid receptor alpha (GRalpha)-mediated REG3A transcription. As such, REG1CP promotes cancer cell proliferation and tumorigenicity and its upregulation is associated with poor outcome of patients. REG1CP is also transcriptionally inducible by GRalpha, indicative of feedforward regulation. These results reveal the function and regulation of REG1CP and suggest that REG1CP may constitute a target for cancer treatment.
PXD015266	31768048	Diurnal oscillations of endogenous H2O2 sustained by p66(Shc) regulate circadian clocks. 	Measurement of site-specific H2O2-sensitivity and identification of sulfenic acid  modification of CLOCK cysteines	CLOCK, H2O2-sensitivity, sulfenic acid modificaiton	Redox balance, an essential feature of healthy physiological steady states, is regulated by circadian clocks, but whether or how endogenous redox signalling conversely regulates clockworks in mammals remains unknown. Here, we report circadian rhythms in the levels of endogenous H2O2 in mammalian cells and mouse livers. Using an unbiased method to screen for H2O2-sensitive transcription factors, we discovered that rhythmic redox control of CLOCK directly by endogenous H2O2 oscillations is required for proper intracellular clock function. Importantly, perturbations in the rhythm of H2O2 levels induced by the loss of p66(Shc), which oscillates rhythmically in the liver and suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of mice, disturb the rhythmic redox control of CLOCK function, reprogram hepatic transcriptome oscillations, lengthen the circadian period in mice and modulate light-induced clock resetting. Our findings suggest that redox signalling rhythms are intrinsically coupled to the circadian system through reversible oxidative modification of CLOCK and constitute essential mechanistic timekeeping components in mammals.
PXD014690	31768060	DIA-NN: neural networks and interference correction enable deep proteome coverage in high throughput. 	Microflow SWATH data analysed with DIA-NN	DIA, High-throughput proteomics, K562, SWATH, gas-phase fractionation, plasma	We present an easy-to-use integrated software suite, DIA-NN, that exploits deep neural networks and new quantification and signal correction strategies for the processing of data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics experiments. DIA-NN improves the identification and quantification performance in conventional DIA proteomic applications, and is particularly beneficial for high-throughput applications, as it is fast and enables deep and confident proteome coverage when used in combination with fast chromatographic methods.
PXD014263	31768063	Bottom-up structural proteomics: cryoEM of protein complexes enriched from the cellular milieu. 	Bottom-up structural proteomics: cryoEM of protein complexes enriched from the cellular milieu	Plasmodium falciparum, cryoEM	X-ray crystallography often requires non-native constructs involving mutations or truncations, and is challenged by membrane proteins and large multicomponent complexes. We present here a bottom-up endogenous structural proteomics approach whereby near-atomic-resolution cryo electron microscopy (cryoEM) maps are reconstructed ab initio from unidentified protein complexes enriched directly from the endogenous cellular milieu, followed by identification and atomic modeling of the proteins. The proteins in each complex are identified using cryoID, a program we developed to identify proteins in ab initio cryoEM maps. As a proof of principle, we applied this approach to the malaria-causing parasite Plasmodium falciparum, an organism that has resisted conventional structural-biology approaches, to obtain atomic models of multiple protein complexes implicated in intraerythrocytic survival of the parasite. Our approach is broadly applicable for determining structures of undiscovered protein complexes enriched directly from endogenous sources.
PXD009805	31769166	Comparative membrane proteomics reveal contrasting adaptation strategies for coastal and oceanic marine Synechococcus cyanobacteria. 	Membrane Proteomics Reveal Contrasting Adaptation Strategies For Marine Cyanobacteria	Cyanobacteria, Membrane, Metaproteomics, Transporter	Marine cyanobacteria genus Synechococcus are among the most abundant and widespread primary producers in the open ocean. Synechococcus strains belonging to different clades have adapted distinct strategies for growth and survival across a range of marine conditions. Clades I and IV are prevalent in colder, mesotrophic, coastal waters, while clades II and III prefer warm, oligotrophic open oceans. To gain insight into the cellular resources these unicellular organisms invest in adaptation strategies we performed shotgun membrane proteomics of four Synechococcus spp. strains namely CC9311 (clade I), CC9605 (clade II), WH8102 (clade III) and CC9902 (clade IV). Comparative membrane proteomes analysis demonstrated that CC9902 and WH8102 showed high resource allocation for phosphate uptake, accounting for 44% and 38% of overall transporter protein expression of the species. WH8102 showed high expression of the iron uptake ATP-binding cassette binding protein FutA, suggesting that a high binding affinity for iron is possibly a key adaptation strategy for some strains in oligotrophic ocean environments. One protein annotated as a phosphatase 2c (Sync_2505 and Syncc9902_0387) was highly expressed in the coastal mesotrophic strains CC9311 and CC9902, constituting 14%-16% of total membrane protein, indicating a vital, but undefined function, for strains living in temperate mesotrophic environments.
PXD014274	31771055	Proteomic and Unbiased Post-Translational Modification Profiling of Amyloid Plaques and Surrounding Tissue in a Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease. 	Proteomic and unbiased post-translational modification profiling of amyloid plaques and surrounding tissue in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, Amyloid plaque, laser capture microdissection, post transcriptional modifications	Amyloid plaques are one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The main constituent of amyloid plaques is amyloid-beta peptides, but a complex interplay of other infiltrating proteins also co-localizes. We hypothesized that proteomic analysis could reveal differences between amyloid plaques and adjacent control tissue in the transgenic mouse model of AD (APPPS1-21) and in similar regions from non-transgenic littermates. Our microproteomic strategy included isolation of regions of interest by laser capture microdissection and analysis by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry-based label-free relative quantification. We consistently identified 183, 224, and 307 proteins from amyloid plaques, adjacent control and non-tg samples, respectively. Pathway analysis revealed 27 proteins that were significantly regulated when comparing amyloid plaques and corresponding adjacent control regions. We further elucidated that co-localized proteins were subjected to post-translational modifications and are the first to report 193 and 117 unique modifications associated to amyloid plaques and adjacent control extracts, respectively. The three most common modifications detected in proteins from the amyloid plaques were oxidation, deamidation, and pyroglutamylation. Together, our data provide novel information about the biological processes occurring within and around amyloid plaques in the APPPS1-21 mouse model of AD.
PXD014979	31771294	Preventive Effects of Fluoro-Substituted Benzothiadiazole Derivatives and Chitosan Oligosaccharide against the Rice Seedling Blight Induced by Fusarium oxysporum. 	Induced Resistance Mechanism in Rice against the Rice Seedling Blight Disease by Fluoro-substituted Benzothiadiazole Derivatives and Chitosan oligosaccharide	FBT, Fusarium oxysporum, momilactone, oligochitosan, rice	Rice seedling blight, caused by Fusarium oxysporum, significantly affects global rice production levels. Fluoro-substituted benzothiadiazole derivatives (FBT) and chitosan oligosaccharide (COS) are elicitors that can enhance plant resistance to pathogen infection. However, there is a lack of information regarding FBT and COS used as elicitors in rice seedlings blight. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of FBT and COS treatments on rice seedling blight and elucidate the molecular mechanisms of the two elicitors for inducing resistance using proteomic technique. Results indicated that FBT and COS significantly reduced the disease incidence and index, and relived the root growth inhibition caused by F. oxysporum (p < 0.05). Biochemical analyses demonstrated that these two elicitors effectively enhanced activities of defense enzymes. Moreover, the proteomic results of rice root tissues disclosed more differentially expressed proteins in diterpenoid biosynthesis pathway that were particularly stimulated by two elicitors compared to the other pathways studied, resulting in the accumulation of antimicrobial substance, momilactone. Findings of this study could provide sound theoretical basis for further applications of FBT and COS used as rice elicitors against seedling blight.
PXD014355	31772009	Palmitoylation of BMPR1a regulates neural stem cell fate. 	Palmitoylation of BMPR1a regulates neural stem cell fate	ABE, NSC	Neural stem cells (NSCs) generate neurons and glial cells throughout embryonic and postnatal brain development. The role of S-palmitoylation (also referred to as S-acylation), a reversible posttranslational lipid modification of proteins, in regulating the fate and activity of NSCs remains largely unknown. We used an unbiased screening approach to identify proteins that are S-acylated in mouse NSCs and showed that bone morphogenic protein receptor 1a (BMPR1a), a core mediator of BMP signaling, is palmitoylated. Genetic manipulation of S-acylated sites affects the localization and trafficking of BMPR1a and leads to altered BMP signaling. Strikingly, defective palmitoylation of BMPR1a modulates NSC function within the mouse brain, resulting in enhanced oligodendrogenesis. Thus, we identified a mechanism regulating the behavior of NSCs and provided the framework to characterize dynamic posttranslational lipid modifications of proteins in the context of NSC biology.
PXD013821	31772060	Combined EGFR and ROCK Inhibition in Triple-negative Breast Cancer Leads to Cell Death Via Impaired Autophagic Flux. 	Impairment of autophagic flux by combined EGFR and ROCK inhibition leads to triple-negative breast cancer cell death	EGFR, ROCK, autophagy, label-free, targeted therapy, triple-negative breast cancer	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype of breast cancer with very limited therapeutic options. We have recently shown that the combined inhibition of EGFR and ROCK in TNBC cells results in cell death, however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. To investigate this, here we applied a mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach to identify proteins altered on single and combination treatments. Our proteomic data revealed autophagy as the major molecular mechanism implicated in the cells' response to combinatorial treatment. We here show that EGFR inhibition by gefitinib treatment alone induces autophagy, a cellular recycling process that acts as a cytoprotective response for TNBC cells. However, combined inhibition of EGFR and ROCK leads to autophagy blockade and accumulation of autophagic vacuoles. Our data show impaired autophagosome clearance as a likely cause of antitumor activity. We propose that the inhibition of the autophagic flux on combinatorial treatment is attributed to the major cytoskeletal changes induced on ROCK inhibition, given the essential role the cytoskeleton plays throughout the various steps of the autophagy process.
PXD015325	31772124	Thiol-based direct threat sensing by the stress-activated protein kinase Hog1. 	Thiol-Based Direct Threat Sensing by the Stress-Activated Protein Kinase Hog1	Arsenic stress, TMT	The yeast stress-activated protein kinase Hog1 is best known for its role in mediating the response to osmotic stress, but it is also activated by various mechanistically distinct environmental stressors, including heat shock, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and arsenic. In the osmotic stress response, the signal is sensed upstream and relayed to Hog1 through a kinase cascade. Here, we identified a mode of Hog1 function whereby Hog1 senses arsenic through a direct physical interaction that requires three conserved cysteine residues located adjacent to the catalytic loop. These residues were essential for Hog1-mediated protection against arsenic, were dispensable for the response to osmotic stress, and promoted the nuclear localization of Hog1 upon exposure of cells to arsenic. Hog1 promoted arsenic detoxification by stimulating phosphorylation of the transcription factor Yap8, promoting Yap8 nuclear localization, and stimulating the transcription of the only known Yap8 targets, ARR2 and ARR3, both of which encode proteins that promote arsenic efflux. The related human kinases ERK1 and ERK2 also bound to arsenic in vitro, suggesting that this may be a conserved feature of some members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. These data provide a mechanistic basis for understanding how stress-activated kinases can sense distinct threats and perform highly specific adaptive responses.
PXD012847	31772125	PKR-dependent cytosolic cGAS foci are necessary for intracellular DNA sensing. 	The essential role of stress granules in cGAS sensing of DNA	cGAS associated cellular proteins	Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) is a major sensor of cytosolic DNA from invading pathogens and damaged cellular organelles. Activation of cGAS promotes liquid-like phase separation and formation of membraneless cytoplasmic structures. Here, we found that cGAS bound G3BP1, a double-stranded nucleic acid helicase involved in the formation of stress granules. Loss of G3BP1 blocked subcellular cGAS condensation and suppressed the interferon response to intracellular DNA and DNA virus particles in cells. Furthermore, an RNA-dependent association with PKR promoted G3BP1 foci formation and cGAS-dependent interferon responses. Together, these results indicate that PKR promotes the formation of G3BP1-dependent, membraneless cytoplasmic structures necessary for the DNA-sensing function of cGAS in human cells. These data suggest that there is a previously unappreciated link between nucleic acid sensing pathways, which requires the formation of specialized subcellular structures.
PXD011513	31772204	The in vivo ISGylome links ISG15 to metabolic pathways and autophagy upon Listeria monocytogenes infection. 	Proteomics-based identification of ISG15 modification sites during Listeria monocytogenes infection	ISG15, Listeria infection, Ubiquitin-like modification, mice	ISG15 is an interferon-stimulated, ubiquitin-like protein, with anti-viral and anti-bacterial activity. Here, we map the endogenous in vivo ISGylome in the liver following Listeria monocytogenes infection by combining murine models of reduced or enhanced ISGylation with quantitative proteomics. Our method identifies 930 ISG15 sites in 434 proteins and also detects changes in the host ubiquitylome. The ISGylated targets are enriched in proteins which alter cellular metabolic processes, including upstream modulators of the catabolic and antibacterial pathway of autophagy. Computational analysis of substrate structures reveals that a number of ISG15 modifications occur at catalytic sites or dimerization interfaces of enzymes. Finally, we demonstrate that animals and cells with enhanced ISGylation have increased basal and infection-induced autophagy through the modification of mTOR, WIPI2, AMBRA1, and RAB7. Taken together, these findings ascribe a role of ISGylation to temporally reprogram organismal metabolism following infection through direct modification of a subset of enzymes in the liver.
PXD012443	31772286	First nitrosoproteomic profiling deciphers the cysteine S-nitrosylation involved in multiple metabolic pathways of tea leaves. 	Nitrosoproteomic Analysis Deciphers the S-Nitrosylome in Carbon Metabolism of Tea Leaves	Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze, Carbon metabolism, Cysteine S-nitrosylation	Cysteine S-nitrosylation is a reversible protein post-translational modification and critically regulates the activity, localization and stability of proteins. Tea (Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze) is one of the most thoroughly studied evergreen crop due to its broad non-alcoholic beverage and huge economic impact in the world. However, little is known about the S-nitrosylome in this plant. Here, we performed a global analysis of cysteine S-nitrosylation in tea leaves. In total, 228 cysteine S-nitrosylation sites were identified in 191 proteins, representing the first extensive data on the S-nitrosylome in tea plants. These S-nitrosylated proteins were located in various subcellular compartments, especially in the chloroplast and cytoplasm. Furthermore, the analysis of functional enrichment and PPI network revealed that the S-nitrosylated proteins were mainly involved in multiple metabolic pathways, including glycolysis, pyruvate metabolism, Calvin cycle and TCA cycle. Overall, this study not only systematically identified the proteins of S-nitrosylation in cysteines of tea leaves, but also laid the solid foundation for further verifying the roles of S-nitrosylation in cysteines of tea plants.
PXD014864	31774274	Discovering the Microbial Enzymes Driving Drug Toxicity with Activity-Based Protein Profiling. 	Deciphering Differential Gut Bacterial Drug Metabolism with Activity-Based Protein Profiling	Activity-based Protein Profiling, Drug metabolism, Gut Microbiome	It is increasingly clear that interindividual variability in human gut microbial composition contributes to differential drug responses. For example, gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity is not observed in all patients treated with the anticancer drug irinotecan, and it has been suggested that this variability is a result of differences in the types and levels of gut bacterial beta-glucuronidases (GUSs). GUS enzymes promote drug toxicity by hydrolyzing the inactive drug-glucuronide conjugate back to the active drug, which damages the GI epithelium. Proteomics-based identification of the exact GUS enzymes responsible for drug reactivation from the complexity of the human microbiota has not been accomplished, however. Here, we discover the specific bacterial GUS enzymes that generate SN-38, the active and toxic metabolite of irinotecan, from human fecal samples using a unique activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) platform. We identify and quantify gut bacterial GUS enzymes from human feces with an ABPP-enabled proteomics pipeline and then integrate this information with ex vivo kinetics to pinpoint the specific GUS enzymes responsible for SN-38 reactivation. Furthermore, the same approach also reveals the molecular basis for differential gut bacterial GUS inhibition observed between human fecal samples. Taken together, this work provides an unprecedented technical and bioinformatics pipeline to discover the microbial enzymes responsible for specific reactions from the complexity of human feces. Identifying such microbial enzymes may lead to precision biomarkers and novel drug targets to advance the promise of personalized medicine.
PXD015816	31775047	Fibroblastic Reticular Cells Control Conduit Matrix Deposition during Lymph Node Expansion. 	Matrix Remodelling during Lymph Node Expansion	Lymph node, SWATH, extracellular matrix, matrisome	Lymph nodes (LNs) act as filters, constantly sampling peripheral cues. This is facilitated by the conduit network, a tubular structure of aligned extracellular matrix (ECM) fibrils ensheathed by fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs). LNs undergo rapid 3- to 5-fold expansion during adaptive immune responses, but these ECM-rich structures are not permanently damaged. Whether conduit flow or filtering function is affected during LN expansion is unknown. Here, we show that conduits are partially disrupted during acute LN expansion, but FRC-FRC contacts remain connected. We reveal that polarized FRCs deposit ECM basolaterally using LL5-beta and that ECM production is regulated at transcriptional and secretory levels by the C-type lectin CLEC-2, expressed by dendritic cells. Inflamed LNs maintain conduit size exclusion, and flow is disrupted but persists, indicating the robustness of this structure despite rapid tissue expansion. We show how dynamic communication between peripheral tissues and LNs provides a mechanism to prevent inflammation-induced fibrosis in lymphoid tissue.
PXD013132	31775054	Trans-omics Impact of Thymoproteasome in Cortical Thymic Epithelial Cells. 	TMT10plex_cTEC_mTEC_beta5tKO-cTEC	TMT	The thymic function to produce self-protective and self-tolerant T cells is chiefly mediated by cortical thymic epithelial cells (cTECs) and medullary TECs (mTECs). Recent studies including single-cell transcriptomic analyses have highlighted a rich diversity in functional mTEC subpopulations. Because of their limited cellularity, however, the biochemical characterization of TECs, including the proteomic profiling of cTECs and mTECs, has remained unestablished. Utilizing genetically modified mice that carry enlarged but functional thymuses, here we show a combination of proteomic and transcriptomic profiles for cTECs and mTECs, which identified signature molecules that characterize a developmental and functional contrast between cTECs and mTECs. Our results reveal a highly specific impact of the thymoproteasome on proteasome subunit composition in cTECs and provide an integrated trans-omics platform for further exploration of thymus biology.
PXD015861	31775888	RNA-binding protein KHSRP promotes tumor growth and metastasis in non-small cell lung cancer. 	Proteomic analysis of human lung cancer cells	Proteomic analysis, human lung cancer cell	BACKGROUND: KH-type splicing regulatory protein (KHSRP) plays an important role in cancer invasion, but the relevant mechanism is not well known. In the present study, we investigated the function and potential molecular mechanism of KHSRP in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) metastasis and elucidated its clinical significance. METHODS: Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation and the SWATH(TM) approach were combined with nanoliquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis to identify metastasis-associated nucleoproteins in NSCLC. Real-time PCR and Western blot were used to screen for metastasis-associated candidate molecules. Gene knockdown and overexpression were used to investigate their functions and molecular mechanisms in lung cancer cells. Coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) experiments were performed to identify the interactions between candidate molecules and their interacting proteins. Gene expression and its association with multiple clinicopathologic characteristics were analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western blot in human lung cancer specimens. RESULTS: KHSRP was identified as a metastasis-associated candidate molecule. In NSCLC cell lines, knockdown of KHSRP significantly reduced lung cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro and in vivo, whereas overexpression of KHSRP did the opposite. Mechanistically, the protein heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (C1/C2) (HNRNPC) was identified to interact with KHSRP using Co-IP experiments. In NSCLC cell lines, overexpression of HNRNPC significantly promoted lung cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro and in vivo. KHSRP and HNRNPC may induce human lung cancer cell invasion and metastasis by activating the IFN-alpha-JAK-STAT1 signaling pathway. Drastically higher expression levels of KHSRP and HNRNPC were observed in lung cancer tissues compared to those in adjacent noncancerous tissues. Increased KHSRP and HNRNPC expression was significantly associated with advanced tumor stages and metastasis (both lymph node and distant). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that patients with high KHSRP and HNRNPC expression levels were predicted to have the shortest survival times and to have a poor prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: KHSRP plays an important role in NSCLC metastasis and may serve as a potential prognostic marker and novel therapeutic target for lung cancer metastasis treatment.
PXD011617	31777917	PRMT1-mediated methylation of the microprocessor-associated proteins regulates microRNA biogenesis. 	PRMT1-mediated methylation of the Large Drosha Complex regulates microRNA biogenesis	Large Drosha Complex, PRMT1, microRNA, protein methylation	MicroRNA (miRNA) biogenesis is a tightly controlled multi-step process operated in the nucleus by the activity of the Microprocessor and its associated proteins. Through high resolution mass spectrometry (MS)- proteomics we discovered that this complex is extensively methylated, with 84 methylated sites associated to 19 out of its 24 subunits. The majority of the modifications occurs on arginine (R) residues (61), leading to 81 methylation events, while 30 lysine (K)-methylation events occurs on 23 sites of the complex. Interestingly, both depletion and pharmacological inhibition of the Type-I Protein Arginine Methyltransferases (PRMTs) lead to a widespread change in the methylation state of the complex and induce global decrease of miRNA expression, as a consequence of the impairment of the pri-to-pre-miRNA processing step. In particular, we show that the reduced methylation of the Microprocessor subunit ILF3 is linked to its diminished binding to the pri-miRNAs miR-15a/16, miR-17-92, miR-301a and miR-331. Our study uncovers a previously uncharacterized role of R-methylation in the regulation of miRNA biogenesis in mammalian cells.
PXD016032	31779068	Optimization of Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry for Deep and Highly Sensitive Proteomic Analysis. 	Optimization of data-independent acquisition-MS for deep proteome analysis	DIA, HEK293 cell, SWATH, Single shot, cerebrum	Data-independent acquisition (DIA)-mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic analysis overtop the existing data-dependent acquisition (DDA)-MS-based proteomic analysis to enable deep proteome coverage and precise relative quantitative analysis in single-shot liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS. However, DIA-MS-based proteomic analysis has not yet been optimized in terms of system robustness and throughput, particularly for its practical applications. We established a single-shot LC-MS/MS system with an MS measurement time of 90 min for a highly sensitive and deep proteomic analysis by optimizing the conditions of DIA and nanoLC. We identified 7020 and 4068 proteins from 200 ng and 10 ng, respectively, of tryptic floating human embryonic kidney cells 293 (HEK293F) cell digest by performing the constructed LC-MS method with a protein sequence database search. The numbers of identified proteins from 200 ng and 10 ng of tryptic HEK293F increased to 8509 and 5706, respectively, by searching the chromatogram library created by gas-phase fractionated DIA. Moreover, DIA protein quantification was highly reproducible, with median coefficients of variation of 4.3% in eight replicate analyses. We could demonstrate the power of this system by applying the proteomic analysis to detect subtle changes in protein profiles between cerebrums in germ-free and specific pathogen-free mice, which successfully showed that >40 proteins were differentially produced between the cerebrums in the presence or absence of bacteria.
PXD013725	31780689	Carprofen-induced depletion of proton motive force reverses TetK-mediated doxycycline resistance in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus pseudintermedius. 	Mechanism of antimicrobial synergy between doxycycline and carprofen against methicillin-resistant Staphylococus pseudintermedius	2D DIGE, antimicrobial resistance	We previously showed that doxycycline (DOX) and carprofen (CPF), a veterinary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, have synergistic antimicrobial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus pseudintermedius (MRSP) carrying the tetracycline resistance determinant TetK. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of this synergy, we investigated the effects of the two drugs, individually and in combination, using a comprehensive approach including RNA sequencing, two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis, macromolecule biosynthesis assays and fluorescence spectroscopy. Exposure of TetK-positive MRSP to CPF alone resulted in upregulation of pathways that generate ATP and NADH, and promote the proton gradient. We showed that CPF is a proton carrier that dissipates the electrochemical potential of the membrane. In the presence of both CPF and DOX, the energy compensation strategy was attenuated by downregulation of all the processes involved, such as citric acid cycle, oxidative phosphorylation and ATP-providing arginine deiminase pathway. Furthermore, protein biosynthesis inhibition increased from 20% under DOX exposure alone to 75% upon simultaneous exposure to CPF. We conclude that synergistic interaction of the drugs restores DOX susceptibility in MRSP by compromising proton-motive-force-dependent TetK-mediated efflux of the antibiotic. MRSP is unable to counterbalance CPF-mediated PMF depletion by cellular metabolic adaptations, resulting in intracellular accumulation of DOX and inhibition of protein biosynthesis.
PXD026761	31781086	Proteomics-Based Mechanistic Investigation of Escherichia coli Inactivation by Pulsed Electric Field. 	Proteomics-based mechanistic investigation of Staphylococcus aureus inactivation by pulsed electric field	Pulsed Electric Field, Staphylococcus aureus	The pulsed electric field (PEF) technology has been widely applied to inactivate pathogenic bacteria in food products. Though irreversible pore formation and membrane disruption is considered to be the main contributing factor to PEF's sterilizing effects, the exact molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, by using mass spectrometry (MS)-based label-free quantitative proteomic analysis, we compared the protein profiles of PEF-treated and untreated Escherichia coli. We identified a total of 175 differentially expressed proteins, including 52 candidates that were only detected in at least two of the three samples in one experiment group but not in the other group. Functional analysis revealed that the differential proteins were primarily involved in the regulation of cell membrane composition and integrity, stress response, as well as various metabolic processes. Quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis was conducted on the genes of selected differential proteins at varying PEF intensities, which were known to result in different cell killing levels. The qRT-PCR data confirmed that the proteomic results could be reliably used for further data interpretation, and that the changes in the expression levels of the differential candidates were, to a large extent, caused directly by the PEF treatment. The findings of the current study offered valuable insight into PEF-induced cell inactivation.
PXD004649	31782549	Elucidation of WW domain ligand binding specificities in the Hippo pathway reveals STXBP4 as YAP inhibitor. 	Human WW-domain containing proteins TAP-LC-MSMS	TAP, WW-domain containing proteins	The Hippo pathway, which plays a critical role in organ size control and cancer, features numerous WW domain-based protein-protein interactions. However, ~100 WW domains and 2,000 PY motif-containing peptide ligands are found in the human proteome, raising a "WW-PY" binding specificity issue in the Hippo pathway. In this study, we have established the WW domain binding specificity for Hippo pathway components and uncovered a unique amino acid sequence required for it. By using this criterion, we have identified a WW domain-containing protein, STXBP4, as a negative regulator of YAP. Mechanistically, STXBP4 assembles a protein complex comprising alpha-catenin and a group of Hippo PY motif-containing components/regulators to inhibit YAP, a process that is regulated by actin cytoskeleton tension. Interestingly, STXBP4 is a potential tumor suppressor for human kidney cancer, whose downregulation is correlated with YAP activation in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Taken together, our study not only elucidates the WW domain binding specificity for the Hippo pathway, but also reveals STXBP4 as a player in actin cytoskeleton tension-mediated Hippo pathway regulation.
PXD012575	31782728	Endothelial EphB4 maintains vascular integrity and transport function in adult heart. 	Endothelial EphB4 maintains vascular integrity and transport function in adult heart	EPHB4, endothelium, gene expression, heart, metabolism	The homeostasis of heart and other organs relies on the appropriate provision of nutrients and functional specialization of the local vasculature. Here, we have used mouse genetics, imaging and cell biology approaches to investigate how homeostasis in the adult heart is controlled by endothelial EphB4 and its ligand ephrin-B2, which are known regulators of vascular morphogenesis and arteriovenous differentiation during development. We show that inducible and endothelial cell-specific inactivation of Ephb4 in adult mice is compatible with survival, but leads to rupturing of cardiac capillaries, cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, and pathological cardiac remodeling. In contrast, EphB4 is not required for integrity and homeostasis of capillaries in skeletal muscle. Our analysis of mutant mice and cultured endothelial cells shows that EphB4 controls the function of caveolae, cell-cell adhesion under mechanical stress and lipid transport. We propose that EphB4 maintains critical functional properties of the adult cardiac vasculature and thereby prevents dilated cardiomyopathy-like defects.
PXD015457	31782878	Isotopically Labeled Desthiobiotin Azide (isoDTB) Tags Enable Global Profiling of the Bacterial Cysteinome. 	Isotopically Labeled Desthiobiotin Azide (isoDTB) Tags Enable Global Profiling of the Bacterial Cysteinome	Antibiotics, Covalent Inhibitors, Isotopic labeling, Protein modifications	Rapid development of bacterial resistance has led to an urgent need to find new druggable targets for antibiotics. In this context, residue-specific chemoproteomic approaches enable proteome-wide identification of binding sites for covalent inhibitors. Described here are easily synthesized isotopically labeled desthiobiotin azide (isoDTB) tags that shortened the chemoproteomic workflow and allowed an increased coverage of cysteines in bacterial systems. They were used to quantify 59 % of all cysteines in essential proteins in Staphylococcus aureus and enabled the discovery of 88 cysteines that showed high reactivity, which correlates with functional importance. Furthermore, 268 cysteines that are engaged by covalent ligands were identified. Inhibition of HMG-CoA synthase was verified and will allow addressing the bacterial mevalonate pathway through a new target. Overall, a broad map of the bacterial cysteinome was obtained, which will facilitate the development of antibiotics with novel modes-of-action.
PXD008852	31783201	Epicardial adipose tissue volume and annexin A2/fetuin-A signalling are linked to coronary calcification in advanced coronary artery disease: Computed tomography and proteomic biomarkers from the EPICHEART study. 	EAT and coronary atherosclerosis in high-risk patients	Coronary Calcification, EPICHEART study, Epicardial Adipose Tissue, SWATH	BACKGROUND & AIMS: The role of epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) in the pathophysiology of late stage-coronary artery disease (CAD) has not been investigated. We explored the association of EAT volume and its proteome with advanced coronary atherosclerosis. METHODS: The EPICHEART Study prospectively enrolled 574 severe aortic stenosis patients referred to cardiac surgery. Before surgery, EAT volume was quantified by computed tomography (CT). During surgery, epicardial, mediastinal (MAT) and subcutaneous (SAT) adipose tissue samples were collected to explore fat phenotype by analyzing the proteomic profile using SWATH-mass spectrometry; pericardial fluid and peripheral venous blood were also collected. CAD presence was defined as coronary artery stenosis >=50% in invasive angiography and by CT-derived Agatston coronary calcium score (CCS). RESULTS: EAT volume adjusted for body fat was associated with higher CCS, but not with the presence of coronary stenosis. In comparison with mediastinal and subcutaneous fat depots, EAT exhibited a pro-calcifying proteomic profile in patients with CAD characterized by upregulation of annexin-A2 and downregulation of fetuin-A; annexin-A2 protein levels in EAT samples were also positively correlated with CCS. We confirmed that the annexin-A2 gene was overexpressed in EAT samples of CAD patients and positively correlated with CCS. Fetuin-A gene was not detected in EAT samples, but systemic fetuin-A was higher in CAD than in non-CAD patients, suggesting that fetuin-A was locally downregulated. CONCLUSIONS: In an elderly cohort of stable patients, CCS was associated with EAT volume and annexin-A2/fetuin-A signaling, suggesting that EAT might orchestrate pro-calcifying conditions in the late phases of CAD.
PXD011122	31784108	Type I Interferon Signaling Disrupts the Hepatic Urea Cycle and Alters Systemic Metabolism to Suppress T Cell Function. 	Gene expression changes in liver upon LCMV Cl13 infection.	LCMV, infection, liver, virus	Infections induce complex host responses linked to antiviral defense, inflammation, and tissue damage and repair. We hypothesized that the liver, as a central metabolic hub, may orchestrate systemic metabolic changes during infection. We infected mice with chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), performed RNA sequencing and proteomics of liver tissue, and integrated these data with serum metabolomics at different infection phases. Widespread reprogramming of liver metabolism occurred early after infection, correlating with type I interferon (IFN-I) responses. Viral infection induced metabolic alterations of the liver that depended on the interferon alpha/beta receptor (IFNAR1). Hepatocyte-intrinsic IFNAR1 repressed the transcription of metabolic genes, including Otc and Ass1, which encode urea cycle enzymes. This led to decreased arginine and increased ornithine concentrations in the circulation, resulting in suppressed virus-specific CD8(+) T cell responses and ameliorated liver pathology. These findings establish IFN-I-induced modulation of hepatic metabolism and the urea cycle as an endogenous mechanism of immunoregulation. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
PXD013499	31784520	Glycogen branching enzyme controls cellular iron homeostasis via Iron Regulatory Protein 1 and mitoNEET. 	Identification of potential interacting proteins for Drosophila IRP1A, IRP1B, AGBE	Drosophila, glycogen, iron, larvae, prothoracic gland	Iron Regulatory Protein 1 (IRP1) is a bifunctional cytosolic iron sensor. When iron levels are normal, IRP1 harbours an iron-sulphur cluster (holo-IRP1), an enzyme with aconitase activity. When iron levels fall, IRP1 loses the cluster (apo-IRP1) and binds to iron-responsive elements (IREs) in messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding proteins involved in cellular iron uptake, distribution, and storage. Here we show that mutations in the Drosophila 1,4-Alpha-Glucan Branching Enzyme (AGBE) gene cause porphyria. AGBE was hitherto only linked to glycogen metabolism and a fatal human disorder known as glycogen storage disease type IV. AGBE binds specifically to holo-IRP1 and to mitoNEET, a protein capable of repairing IRP1 iron-sulphur clusters. This interaction ensures nuclear translocation of holo-IRP1 and downregulation of iron-dependent processes, demonstrating that holo-IRP1 functions not just as an aconitase, but throttles target gene expression in anticipation of declining iron requirements.
PXD013508	31784530	Alkyladenine DNA glycosylase associates with transcription elongation to coordinate DNA repair with gene expression. 	Alkyladenine DNA glycosylase associates with transcription elongation to coordinate DNA repair with gene expression	Aerobic exercise, Cancer cachexia, Endurance exercise, Muscle atrophy, Skeletal muscle wasting	Base excision repair (BER) initiated by alkyladenine DNA glycosylase (AAG) is essential for removal of aberrantly methylated DNA bases. Genome instability and accumulation of aberrant bases accompany multiple diseases, including cancer and neurological disorders. While BER is well studied on naked DNA, it remains unclear how BER efficiently operates on chromatin. Here, we show that AAG binds to chromatin and forms complex with RNA polymerase (pol) II. This occurs through direct interaction with Elongator and results in transcriptional co-regulation. Importantly, at co-regulated genes, aberrantly methylated bases accumulate towards the 3'end in regions enriched for BER enzymes AAG and APE1, Elongator and active RNA pol II. Active transcription and functional Elongator are further crucial to ensure efficient BER, by promoting AAG and APE1 chromatin recruitment. Our findings provide insights into genome stability maintenance in actively transcribing chromatin and reveal roles of aberrantly methylated bases in regulation of gene expression.
PXD014692	31784533	Programmed DNA elimination of germline development genes in songbirds. 	Avian reproductive tissue proteome (zebra finch)	GRC, Zebra finch, ove	In some eukaryotes, germline and somatic genomes differ dramatically in their composition. Here we characterise a major germline-soma dissimilarity caused by a germline-restricted chromosome (GRC) in songbirds. We show that the zebra finch GRC contains >115 genes paralogous to single-copy genes on 18 autosomes and the Z chromosome, and is enriched in genes involved in female gonad development. Many genes are likely functional, evidenced by expression in testes and ovaries at the RNA and protein level. Using comparative genomics, we show that genes have been added to the GRC over millions of years of evolution, with embryonic development genes bicc1 and trim71 dating to the ancestor of songbirds and dozens of other genes added very recently. The somatic elimination of this evolutionarily dynamic chromosome in songbirds implies a unique mechanism to minimise genetic conflict between germline and soma, relevant to antagonistic pleiotropy, an evolutionary process underlying ageing and sexual traits.
PXD007767	31784980	Proteins in stool as biomarkers for non-invasive detection of colorectal adenomas with high risk of progression. 	Novel stool-based protein biomarkers for improved colorectal cancer screening	CRC, biomarker, colorectal cancer, label-free, screening, stool	Screening to detect colorectal cancer (CRC) in an early or premalignant state is an effective method to reduce CRC mortality rates. Current stool-based screening tests, e.g. fecal immunochemical test (FIT), have a suboptimal sensitivity for colorectal adenomas and difficulty distinguishing adenomas at high risk of progressing to cancer from those at lower risk. We aimed to identify stool protein biomarker panels that can be used for the early detection of high-risk adenomas and CRC. Proteomics data (LC-MS/MS) were collected on stool samples from adenoma (n = 71) and CRC patients (n = 81) as well as controls (n = 129). Colorectal adenoma tissue samples were characterized by low-coverage whole-genome sequencing to determine their risk of progression based on specific DNA copy number changes. Proteomics data were used for logistic regression modeling to establish protein biomarker panels. In total, 15 of the adenomas (15.8%) were defined as high risk of progressing to cancer. A protein panel, consisting of haptoglobin (Hp), LAMP1, SYNE2, and ANXA6, was identified for the detection of high-risk adenomas (sensitivity of 53% at specificity of 95%). Two panels, one consisting of Hp and LRG1 and one of Hp, LRG1, RBP4, and FN1, were identified for high-risk adenomas and CRCs detection (sensitivity of 66% and 62%, respectively, at specificity of 95%). Validation of Hp as a biomarker for high-risk adenomas and CRCs was performed using an antibody-based assay in FIT samples from a subset of individuals from the discovery series (n = 158) and an independent validation series (n = 795). Hp protein was significantly more abundant in high-risk adenoma FIT samples compared to controls in the discovery (p = 0.036) and the validation series (p = 9e-5). We conclude that Hp, LAMP1, SYNE2, LRG1, RBP4, FN1, and ANXA6 may be of value as stool biomarkers for early detection of high-risk adenomas and CRCs. (c) 2019 Authors. Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD010472	31785127	Mucin adsorbed by E. coli can affect neutrophil activation in vitro. 	Mucin-binding proteins of E. coli membrane	Escherichia coli, HPLC-MS-MS, membrane, mucin binding	Bacteria colonizing human intestine adhere to the gut mucosa and avoid the innate immune system. We previously demonstrated that Escherichia coli isolates can adsorb mucin from a diluted solution in vitro. Here, we evaluated the effect of mucin adsorption by E. coli cells on neutrophil activation in vitro. Activation was evaluated based on the detection of reactive oxygen species production by a chemiluminescent reaction (ChL), observation of morphological alterations in neutrophils and detection of exocytosis of myeloperoxidase and lactoferrin. We report that mucin adsorbed by cells of SharL1 isolate from Crohn's disease patient's inflamed ileum suppressed the potential for the activation of neutrophils in whole blood. Also, the binding of plasma complement proteins and immunoglobulins to the bacteria was reduced. Desialylated mucin, despite having the same adsorption efficiency to bacteria, had no effect on the blood ChL response. The effect of mucin suggests that it shields epitopes that interact with neutrophils and plasma proteins on the bacterial outer membrane. Potential candidates for these epitopes were identified among the proteins within the bacterial outer membrane fraction by 2D-PAGE, fluorescent mucin binding on a blot and HPLC-MS/MS. In vitro, the following proteins demonstrated mucin adsorption: outer membrane porins (OmpA, OmpC, OmpD and OmpF), adhesin OmpX, the membrane assembly factor OmpW, cobalamine transporter, ferrum uptake protein and the elongation factor Ef Tu-1. In addition to their other functions, these proteins are known to be bacterial surface antigens. Therefore, the shielding of epitopes by mucin may affect the dynamics and intensity of an immune response.
PXD014403	31787957	Examination of the Glycine Betaine-Dependent Methylotrophic Methanogenesis Pathway: Insights Into Anaerobic Quaternary Amine Methylotrophy. 	Degradation of Quaternary amine in methanogen	methanogen, quaternary amine	Recent studies indicate that environmentally abundant quaternary amines (QAs) are a primary source for methanogenesis, yet the catabolic enzymes are unknown. We hypothesized that the methanogenic archaeon Methanolobus vulcani B1d metabolizes glycine betaine (GB) through a corrinoid-dependent GB:coenzyme M (CoM) methyl transfer pathway. The draft genome sequence of M. vulcani B1d revealed a gene encoding a predicted non-pyrrolysine MttB homolog (MV8460) with high sequence similarity to the GB methyltransferase encoded by Desulfitobacterium hafniense Y51. MV8460 catalyzes GB-dependent methylation of free cob(I)alamin indicating it is an authentic MtgB enzyme. Proteomic analysis revealed that MV8460 and a corrinoid binding protein (MV8465) were highly abundant when M. vulcani B1d was grown on GB relative to growth on trimethylamine. The abundance of a corrinoid reductive activation enzyme (MV10335) and a methylcorrinoid:CoM methyltransferase (MV10360) were significantly higher in GB-grown B1d lysates compared to other homologs. The GB:CoM pathway was fully reconstituted in vitro using recombinant MV8460, MV8465, MV10335, and MV10360. Demonstration of the complete GB:CoM pathway expands the knowledge of direct QA-dependent methylotrophy and establishes a model to identify additional ecologically relevant anaerobic quaternary amine pathways.
PXD015007	31787963	Multiomic Fermentation Using Chemically Defined Synthetic Hydrolyzates Revealed Multiple Effects of Lignocellulose-Derived Inhibitors on Cell Physiology and Xylose Utilization in Zymomonas mobilis. 	Multiomic studies of inhibitory effects of lignocellulose-derived inhibitors on xylose utilization in Zymomonas mobilis using chemical defined synthetic hydrolysates	Zymomonas mobilis, biofuels, lignocellulosic hydrolysate, microbial conversion, multiomics, xylose metabolism	Utilization of both C5 and C6 sugars to produce biofuels and bioproducts is a key goal for the development of integrated lignocellulosic biorefineries. Previously we found that although engineered Zymomonas mobilis 2032 was able to ferment glucose to ethanol when fermenting highly concentrated hydrolyzates such as 9% glucan-loading AFEX-pretreated corn stover hydrolyzate (9% ACSH), xylose conversion after glucose depletion was greatly impaired. We hypothesized that impaired xylose conversion was caused by lignocellulose-derived inhibitors (LDIs) in hydrolyzates. To investigate the effects of LDIs on the cellular physiology of Z. mobilis during fermentation of hydrolyzates, including impacts on xylose utilization, we generated synthetic hydrolyzates (SynHs) that contained nutrients and LDIs at concentrations found in 9% ACSH. Comparative fermentations of Z. mobilis 2032 using SynH with or without LDIs were performed, and samples were collected for end product, transcriptomic, metabolomic, and proteomic analyses. Several LDI-specific effects were observed at various timepoints during fermentation including upregulation of sulfur assimilation and cysteine biosynthesis, upregulation of RND family efflux pump systems (ZMO0282-0285) and ZMO1429-1432, downregulation of a Type I secretion system (ZMO0252-0255), depletion of reduced glutathione, and intracellular accumulation of mannose-1P and mannose-6P. Furthermore, when grown in SynH containing LDIs, Z. mobilis 2032 only metabolized ~50% of xylose, compared to ~80% in SynH without LDIs, recapitulating the poor xylose utilization observed in 9% ACSH. Our metabolomic data suggest that the overall flux of xylose metabolism is reduced in the presence of LDIs. However, the expression of most genes involved in glucose and xylose assimilation was not affected by LDIs, nor did we observe blocks in glucose and xylose metabolic pathways. Accumulations of intracellular xylitol and xylonic acid was observed in both SynH with and without LDIs, which decreased overall xylose-to-ethanol conversion efficiency. Our results suggest that xylose metabolism in Z. mobilis 2032 may not be able to support the cellular demands of LDI mitigation and detoxification during fermentation of highly concentrated lignocellulosic hydrolyzates with elevated levels of LDIs. Together, our findings identify several cellular responses to LDIs and possible causes of impaired xylose conversion that will enable future strain engineering of Z. mobilis.
PXD014316	31789035	pH Gradient Mitigation in the Leaf Cell Secretory Pathway Attenuates the Defense Response of Nicotiana benthamiana to Agroinfiltration. 	Nicotiana benthamiana cell pH mitigation	M2 ion channel, Nicotiana benhtamiana, agroinfiltration, iTRAQ, pH	Partial neutralization of the Golgi lumen pH by the ectopic expression of influenza virus M2 proton channel is useful to stabilize acid-labile recombinant proteins in plant cells, but the impact of pH gradient mitigation on host cellular functions has not been investigated. Here, we assessed the unintended effects of M2 expression on the leaf proteome of Nicotiana benthamiana infiltrated with the bacterial gene vector Agrobacterium tumefaciens. An isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification quantitative proteomics procedure was followed to compare the leaf proteomes of plants agroinfiltrated with either an "empty" vector or an M2-encoding vector. Leaves infiltrated with the empty vector had a low soluble protein content compared to noninfiltrated control leaves, associated with increased levels of stress-related proteins but decreased levels of photosynthesis-associated proteins. M2 expression partly compromised these effects of agroinfiltration to restore soluble protein content in the leaf tissue, associated with restored levels of photosynthesis-associated proteins and reduced levels of stress-related proteins in the apoplast. These data illustrate the cell-wide influence of the Golgi lumen pH homeostasis on the leaf proteome of N. benthamiana responding to microbial challenge. They also underline the relevance of assessing the eventual unintended effects of accessory proteins used to modulate specific cellular or metabolic functions in plant protein biofactories.
PXD015654	31789040	Quantitative Proteomics Combined with Two Genetic Strategies for Screening Substrates of Ubiquitin Ligase Hrt3. 	Yeast ubiquitin ligase LC-MS/MS	Hrt3, ubiquitinated substrates	Ubiquitin ligases (E3s) serve as key regulators for the ubiquitylation-mediated pathway. The identification of the corresponding relationship between E3 and its substrates is challenging but required for understanding the regulatory network of ubiquitylation. The low abundance of ubiquitinated conjugates and high redundancy of E3 substrate regulation made the screening pretty hard. Herein, we combined SILAC-based quantitative proteomics with two contrary genetic methods (overexpression and knockout) in theory for E3 (Hrt3, the F-box subunit of the SCF complex) substrate screening. The knockout method could not overcome the constraint mentioned above, while the overexpression approach turned on the access to the potential substrates of E3. Subsequently, we obtained 77 candidates, which are involved in many critical biological processes and need to be verified in the future. Within these candidates, we confirmed the relationship between one of the candidates Nce103 and Hrt3 and linked Hrt3 with oxygen sensitivity and oxidative stress response in which Nce103 took part as well. This research is also beneficial for understanding the impact of oxygen supply on regulation of yeast growth through the ubiquitination of Nce103.
PXD012433	31790495	Optimization of TripleTOF spectral simulation and library searching for confident localization of phosphorylation sites. 	Simulated spectral library searching on TripleTOF phosphopeptide datasets	Simulated phosphopeptides, SpectraST, TripleTOF	Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) has been used in analysis of proteins and their post-translational modifications. A recently developed data analysis method, which simulates MS/MS spectra of phosphopeptides and performs spectral library searching using SpectraST, facilitates confident localization of phosphorylation sites. However, its performance has been evaluated only on MS/MS spectra acquired using Orbitrap HCD mass spectrometers so far. In this study, we have investigated whether this approach would be applicable to another type of mass spectrometers, and optimized the simulation and search conditions to achieve sensitive and confident site localization. Synthetic phosphopeptides and enriched K562 cell phosphopeptides were analyzed using a TripleTOF 6600 mass spectrometer before and after enzymatic dephosphorylation. Dephosphorylated peptides identified by X!Tandem database searching were subjected to spectral simulation of all possible single phosphorylations using SimPhospho software. Phosphopeptides were identified and localized by SpectraST searching against a library of the simulated spectra. Although no synthetic phosphopeptide was localized at 1% false localization rate under the previous conditions, optimization of the spectral simulation and search conditions for the TripleTOF datasets achieved the localization and improved the sensitivity. Furthermore, the optimized conditions enabled sensitive localization of K562 phosphopeptides at 1% false discovery and localization rates. These results suggest that accurate phosphopeptide simulation of TripleTOF MS/MS spectra is possible and the simulated spectral libraries can be used in SpectraST searching for confident localization of phosphorylation sites.
PXD014468	31792072	Interaction Proteomics Identifies ERbeta Association with Chromatin Repressive Complexes to Inhibit Cholesterol Biosynthesis and Exert An Oncosuppressive Role in Triple-negative Breast Cancer. 	Estrogen Receptor beta (ERbeta) interactome in triple negative breast cancer cells nuclei	Estrogen Receptor beta (ERbeta), Interaction proteomics, Triple Negative Breast Cancer	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by poor response to therapy and low overall patient survival. Recently, Estrogen Receptor beta (ERbeta) has been found to be expressed in a fraction of TNBCs where, because of its oncosuppressive actions on the genome, it represents a potential therapeutic target, provided a better understanding of its actions in these tumors becomes available. To this end, the cell lines Hs 578T, MDA-MB-468 and HCC1806, representing the claudin-low, basal-like 1 and 2 TNBC molecular subtypes respectively, were engineered to express ERbeta under the control of a Tetracycline-inducible promoter and used to investigate the effects of this transcription factor on gene activity. The antiproliferative effects of ERbeta in these cells were confirmed by multiple functional approaches, including transcriptome profiling and global mapping of receptor binding sites in the genome, that revealed direct negative regulation by ERbeta of genes, encoding for key components of cellular pathways associated to TNBC aggressiveness representing novel therapeutic targets such as angiogenesis, invasion, metastasis and cholesterol biosynthesis. Supporting these results, interaction proteomics by immunoprecipitation coupled to nano LC-MS/MS mass spectrometry revealed ERbeta association with several potential nuclear protein partners, including key components of regulatory complexes known to control chromatin remodeling, transcriptional and post-transcriptional gene regulation and RNA splicing. Among these, ERbeta association with the Polycomb Repressor Complexes 1 and 2 (PRC1/2), known for their central role in gene regulation in cancer cells, was confirmed in all three TNBC subtypes investigated, suggesting its occurrence independently from the cellular context. These results demonstrate a significant impact of ERbeta in TNBC genome activity mediated by its cooperation with regulatory multiprotein chromatin remodeling complexes, providing novel ground to devise new strategies for the treatment of these diseases based on ligands affecting the activity of this nuclear receptor or some of its protein partners.
PXD011525	31792197	Global redox proteome and phosphoproteome analysis reveals redox switch in Akt. 	Global redox proteome and phosphoproteome analysis reveals novel mode of Akt regulation	Akt, crosstalk, phosphoproteome, redox proteome	Protein oxidation sits at the intersection of multiple signalling pathways, yet the magnitude and extent of crosstalk between oxidation and other post-translational modifications remains unclear. Here, we delineate global changes in adipocyte signalling networks following acute oxidative stress and reveal considerable crosstalk between cysteine oxidation and phosphorylation-based signalling. Oxidation of key regulatory kinases, including Akt, mTOR and AMPK influences the fidelity rather than their absolute activation state, highlighting an unappreciated interplay between these modifications. Mechanistic analysis of the redox regulation of Akt identified two cysteine residues in the pleckstrin homology domain (C60 and C77) to be reversibly oxidized. Oxidation at these sites affected Akt recruitment to the plasma membrane by stabilizing the PIP3 binding pocket. Our data provide insights into the interplay between oxidative stress-derived redox signalling and protein phosphorylation networks and serve as a resource for understanding the contribution of cellular oxidation to a range of diseases.
PXD013543	31792287	Landscape of heart proteome changes in a diet-induced obesity model. 	Myocardial proteome from obese rats with cardiac dysfunction C4PR_LIV	Q Exactive, Rattus norvegicus, heart tissue, nLC-MS/MS, shotgun proteomic	Obesity is a pandemic associated with a high incidence of cardiovascular disease; however, the mechanisms are not fully elucidated. Proteomics may provide a more in-depth understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms and contribute to the identification of potential therapeutic targets. Thus, our study evaluated myocardial protein expression in healthy and obese rats, employing two proteomic approaches. Male Wistar rats were established in two groups (n = 13/group): control diet and Western diet fed for 41 weeks. Obesity was determined by the adipose index, and cardiac function was evaluated in vivo by echocardiogram and in vitro by isolated papillary muscle analysis. Proteomics was based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) along with mass spectrometry identification, and shotgun proteomics with label-free quantification. The Western diet was efficient in triggering obesity and impaired contractile function in vitro; however, no cardiac dysfunction was observed in vivo. The combination of two proteomic approaches was able to increase the cardiac proteomic map and to identify 82 differentially expressed proteins involved in different biological processes, mainly metabolism. Furthermore, the data also indicated a cardiac alteration in fatty acids transport, antioxidant defence, cytoskeleton, and proteasome complex, which have not previously been associated with obesity. Thus, we define a robust alteration in the myocardial proteome of diet-induced obese rats, even before functional impairment could be detected in vivo by echocardiogram.
PXD014348	31792290	General structural features that regulate integrin affinity revealed by atypical alphaVbeta8. 	General structural features that regulate integrin affinity revealed by atypical alphaVbeta8	Affinity, Conformational change, Crystal structure, Integrin, hydrogen deuterium exchange, proTGF-beta	Integrin alphaVbeta8, which like alphaVbeta6 functions to activate TGF-betas, is atypical. Its beta8 subunit binds to a distinctive cytoskeleton adaptor and does not exhibit large changes in conformation upon binding to ligand. Here, crystal structures, hydrogen-deuterium exchange dynamics, and affinity measurements on mutants are used to compare alphaVbeta8 and alphaVbeta6. Lack of a binding site for one of three betaI domain divalent cations and a unique beta6-alpha7 loop conformation in beta8 facilitate movements of the alpha1 and alpha1' helices at the ligand binding pocket toward the high affinity state, without coupling to beta6-alpha7 loop reshaping and alpha7-helix pistoning that drive large changes in betaI domain-hybrid domain orientation seen in other integrins. Reciprocal swaps between beta6 and beta8 betaI domains increase affinity of alphaVbeta6 and decrease affinity of alphaVbeta8 and define features that regulate affinity of the betaI domain and its coupling to the hybrid domain.
PXD016003	31792454	Detection of collagens by multispectral optoacoustic tomography as an imaging biomarker for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. 	Proteome analysis of skeletal muscle samples from a porcine model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy	Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Pig, skeletal muscle	Biomarkers for monitoring of disease progression and response to therapy are lacking for muscle diseases such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Noninvasive in vivo molecular imaging with multispectral optoacoustic tomography (MSOT) uses pulsed laser light to induce acoustic pressure waves, enabling the visualization of endogenous chromophores. Here we describe an application of MSOT, in which illumination in the near- and extended near-infrared ranges from 680-1,100 nm enables the visualization and quantification of collagen content. We first demonstrated the feasibility of this approach to noninvasive quantification of tissue fibrosis in longitudinal studies in a large-animal Duchenne muscular dystrophy model in pigs, and then applied this approach to pediatric patients. MSOT-derived collagen content measurements in skeletal muscle were highly correlated to the functional status of the patients and provided additional information on molecular features as compared to magnetic resonance imaging. This study highlights the potential of MSOT imaging as a noninvasive, age-independent biomarker for the implementation and monitoring of newly developed therapies in muscular diseases.
PXD010878	31792461	A selective BCL-XL PROTAC degrader achieves safe and potent antitumor activity. 	DT2216 is a specific BCL-XL PROTAC	DT2216 Bcl-xl PROTAC SILAC LC-MS/MS	B-cell lymphoma extra large (BCL-XL) is a well-validated cancer target. However, the on-target and dose-limiting thrombocytopenia limits the use of BCL-XL inhibitors, such as ABT263, as safe and effective anticancer agents. To reduce the toxicity of ABT263, we converted it into DT2216, a BCL-XL proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC), that targets BCL-XL to the Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) E3 ligase for degradation. We found that DT2216 was more potent against various BCL-XL-dependent leukemia and cancer cells but considerably less toxic to platelets than ABT263 in vitro because VHL is poorly expressed in platelets. In vivo, DT2216 effectively inhibits the growth of several xenograft tumors as a single agent or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents, without causing appreciable thrombocytopenia. These findings demonstrate the potential to use PROTAC technology to reduce on-target drug toxicities and rescue the therapeutic potential of previously undruggable targets. Furthermore, DT2216 may be developed as a safe first-in-class anticancer agent targeting BCL-XL.
PXD013607	31795512	The Disulfide Stress Response and Protein S-thioallylation Caused by Allicin and Diallyl Polysulfanes in Bacillus subtilis as Revealed by Transcriptomics and Proteomics. 	The sulfur stress response and protein S-thioallylation caused by allicin and diallyl polysulfanes in Bacillus subtilis as revealed by transcriptomics and proteomics	Bacillus subtilis/ allicin/ diallyl polysulfane/ bacillithiol/ S-thioallylation	Garlic plants (Allium sativum L.) produce antimicrobial compounds, such as diallyl thiosulfinate (allicin) and diallyl polysulfanes. Here, we investigated the transcriptome and protein S-thioallylomes under allicin and diallyl tetrasulfane (DAS4) exposure in the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis. Allicin and DAS4 caused a similar thiol-specific oxidative stress response, protein and DNA damage as revealed by the induction of the OhrR, PerR, Spx, YodB, CatR, HypR, AdhR, HxlR, LexA, CymR, CtsR, and HrcA regulons in the transcriptome. At the proteome level, we identified, in total, 108 S-thioallylated proteins under allicin and/or DAS4 stress. The S-thioallylome includes enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of surfactin (SrfAA, SrfAB), amino acids (SerA, MetE, YxjG, YitJ, CysJ, GlnA, YwaA), nucleotides (PurB, PurC, PyrAB, GuaB), translation factors (EF-Tu, EF-Ts, EF-G), antioxidant enzymes (AhpC, MsrB), as well as redox-sensitive MarR/OhrR and DUF24-family regulators (OhrR, HypR, YodB, CatR). Growth phenotype analysis revealed that the low molecular weight thiol bacillithiol, as well as the OhrR, Spx, and HypR regulons, confer protection against allicin and DAS4 stress. Altogether, we show here that allicin and DAS4 cause a strong oxidative, disulfide and sulfur stress response in the transcriptome and widespread S-thioallylation of redox-sensitive proteins in B. subtilis. The results further reveal that allicin and polysulfanes have similar modes of actions and thiol-reactivities and modify a similar set of redox-sensitive proteins by S-thioallylation.
PXD015170	31795790	The GID ubiquitin ligase complex is a regulator of AMPK activity and organismal lifespan. 	The GID Ubiquitin Ligase Complex is a Regulator of AMPK Activity and Organismal Lifespan	AMPK, GID, MTOR, autophagy, longevity, primary cilium, ubiquitination	The AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) regulates cellular energy homeostasis by sensing the metabolic status of the cell. AMPK is regulated by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation as a result of changing AMP/ATP levels and by removal of inhibitory ubiquitin residues by USP10. In this context, we identified the GID-complex, an evolutionarily conserved ubiquitin-ligase-complex (E3), as a negative regulator of AMPK activity. Our data show that the GID-complex targets AMPK for ubiquitination thereby altering its activity. Cells depleted of GID-subunits mimic a state of starvation as shown by increased AMPK activity and macroautophagic/autophagic flux as well as reduced MTOR activation. Consistently, gid-genes knockdown in C. elegans results in increased organismal lifespan. This study may contribute to understand metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes mellitus and morbid obesity and implements alternative therapeutic approaches to alter AMPK activity. ABBREVIATIONS: ACTB: actin, beta; ADP: adenosine diphosphate; AMP: adenosine monophosphate; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ARMC8: armadillo repeat containing 8; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BCAA: branched chain amino acid; BICC1: BicC family RNA binding protein 1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CAMKK2 kinase: calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase kinase 2, beta; CHX: cycloheximide; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; E1: ubiquitin-activating enzyme; E2: ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme; E3: ubiquitin ligase; ECAR: extracellular acidification rate; FACS: fluorescent associated cell sorter; FBP1: fructose-bisphosphatase 1; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide-4 (trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone; G6P: glucose-6-phosphate; GDP: guanosine diphosphate; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GID: glucose induced degradation deficient; GMP: guanosine monophosphate; GTP: guanosine triphosphate; HBP1: high mobility group box transcription factor 1; HPRT: hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase; KO: knock out; LE: long exposure; MAEA: macrophage erythroblast attacher; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MKLN1: muskelin 1; mRNA: messenger RNA; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin; NES: normalized enrichment score; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; PBS: phosphate buffered saline; PCK1: phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1, cytosolic; PCR: polymerase chain reaction; PFA: paraformaldehyde; RANBP9: RAN binding protein 9; RING: really interesting new gene; RMND5: required for meiotic nuclear division5 homolog; RPS6: ribosomal protein S6; RPTOR: regulatory associated protein of MTOR, complex 1; SE: short exposure; SEM: standard error of the mean; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TSC2: tuberous sclerosis complex 2; TUBA4A: tubulin; TUBE: tandem ubiquitin binding entities; Ub: ubiquitin; UPS: ubiquitin proteasome system; WDR26: WD repeat domain 26; WT: wild type.
PXD015414	31796630	Hypusine biosynthesis in beta cells links polyamine metabolism to facultative cellular proliferation to maintain glucose homeostasis. 	: Hypusine Biosynthesis in beta Cells Links Polyamine Metabolism to Facultative Cellular Proliferation to Maintain Glucose Homeostasis	hypusine, polyamines, proliferation, beta cell	Deoxyhypusine synthase (DHPS) uses the polyamine spermidine to catalyze the hypusine modification of the mRNA translation factor eIF5A and promotes oncogenesis through poorly defined mechanisms. Because germline deletion of Dhps is embryonically lethal, its role in normal postnatal cellular function in vivo remains unknown. We generated a mouse model that enabled the inducible, postnatal deletion of Dhps specifically in postnatal islet beta cells, which function to maintain glucose homeostasis. Removal of Dhps did not have an effect under normal physiologic conditions. However, upon development of insulin resistance, which induces beta cell proliferation, Dhps deletion caused alterations in proteins required for mRNA translation and protein secretion, reduced production of the cell cycle molecule cyclin D2, impaired beta cell proliferation, and induced overt diabetes. We found that hypusine biosynthesis was downstream of protein kinase C-zeta and was required for c-Myc-induced proliferation. Our studies reveal a requirement for DHPS in beta cells to link polyamines to mRNA translation to effect facultative cellular proliferation and glucose homeostasis.
PXD011321	31797923	The dynamic proteome of influenza A virus infection identifies M segment splicing as a host range determinant. 	The dynamic proteome of Influenza A virus infection	A549, AHA, Influenza, SILAC, avian flu, human flu, protein de novo synthesis	Pandemic influenza A virus (IAV) outbreaks occur when strains from animal reservoirs acquire the ability to infect and spread among humans. The molecular basis of this species barrier is incompletely understood. Here we combine metabolic pulse labeling and quantitative proteomics to monitor protein synthesis upon infection of human cells with a human- and a bird-adapted IAV strain and observe striking differences in viral protein synthesis. Most importantly, the matrix protein M1 is inefficiently produced by the bird-adapted strain. We show that impaired production of M1 from bird-adapted strains is caused by increased splicing of the M segment RNA to alternative isoforms. Strain-specific M segment splicing is controlled by the 3' splice site and functionally important for permissive infection. In silico and biochemical evidence shows that avian-adapted M segments have evolved different conserved RNA structure features than human-adapted sequences. Thus, we identify M segment RNA splicing as a viral host range determinant.
PXD015543	31799578	Intestinal response to dietary manganese depletion in Drosophila. 	Intestinal response to dietary manganese depletion in Drosophila	Superoxide dismutase (Sod2), white + (w+)	Manganese is considered essential for animal growth. Manganese ions serve as cofactors to three mitochondrial enzymes: superoxide dismutase (Sod2), arginase and glutamine synthase, and to glycosyltransferases residing in the Golgi. In Drosophila melanogaster, manganese has also been implicated in the formation of ceramide phosphoethanolamine, the insect's sphingomyelin analogue, a structural component of cellular membranes. Manganese overload leads to neurodegeneration and toxicity in both humans and Drosophila. Here, we report specific absorption and accumulation of manganese during the first week of adulthood in flies, which correlates with an increase in Sod2 activity during the same period. To test the requirement of dietary manganese for this accumulation, we generated a Drosophila model of manganese deficiency. Due to the lack of manganese-specific chelators, we used chemically defined media to grow the flies and deplete them of the metal. Dietary manganese depletion reduced Sod2 activity. We then examined gene and protein expression changes in the intestines of manganese depleted flies. We found adaptive responses to the presumed loss of known manganese-dependent enzymatic activities: less glutamine synthase activity (amination of glutamate to glutamine) was compensated by 50% reduction in glutaminase (deamination of glutamine to glutamate); less glycosyltransferase activity, predicted to reduce protein glycosylation, was compensated by 30% reduction in lysosomal mannosidases (protein deglycosylating enzymes); less ceramide phosphoethanolamine synthase activity was compensated by 30% reduction in the Drosophila sphingomyeline phospodiesterase, which could catabolize ceramide phosphoethanolamine in flies. Reduced Sod2 activity, predicted to cause superoxide-dependent iron-sulphur cluster damage, resulted in cellular iron misregulation.
PXD015218	31799629	Ribosomal protein gene RPL9 variants can differentially impair ribosome function and cellular metabolism. 	Identification of RPL9 variants incorporated in mature ribosomes from patient's Lymphoblastoid cell line	RPL9 variants, label-free quantification, nanoLC-MS/MS, ribosomes	Variants in ribosomal protein (RP) genes drive Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA), a bone marrow failure syndrome that can also predispose individuals to cancer. Inherited and sporadic RP gene variants are also linked to a variety of phenotypes, including malignancy, in individuals with no anemia. Here we report an individual diagnosed with DBA carrying a variant in the 5'UTR of RPL9 (uL6). Additionally, we report two individuals from a family with multiple cancer incidences carrying a RPL9 missense variant. Analysis of cells from these individuals reveals that despite the variants both driving pre-rRNA processing defects and 80S monosome reduction, the downstream effects are remarkably different. Cells carrying the 5'UTR variant stabilize TP53 and impair the growth and differentiation of erythroid cells. In contrast, ribosomes incorporating the missense variant erroneously read through UAG and UGA stop codons of mRNAs. Metabolic profiles of cells carrying the 5'UTR variant reveal an increased metabolism of amino acids and a switch from glycolysis to gluconeogenesis while those of cells carrying the missense variant reveal a depletion of nucleotide pools. These findings indicate that variants in the same RP gene can drive similar ribosome biogenesis defects yet still have markedly different downstream consequences and clinical impacts.
PXD015360	31800250	Comparative Glycoproteomic Profiling of Human Body Fluid between Healthy Controls and Patients with Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma. 	Comparative glycoproteomic profiling of human body fluid between healthy controls and patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma	biomarker, site-specific N-glycopeptide, thyroid cancer	Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common type of thyroid cancer among women worldwide. It is confirmed mainly by fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB), an invasive diagnostic method. The key proteins responsible for thyroid hormone biosynthesis are glycosylated. Hence, changes in site-specific glycosylation are associated with thyroid cancer. Integrated quantitative proteomic and glycoproteomic analyses of body fluids from patients with PTC may identify potential noninvasive biomarkers, improve diagnostic accuracy, and elucidate the basic mechanisms of tumor development. In the present study, we demonstrate an integrated, highly reproducible, rapid method involving body fluid proteome and glycoproteome analysis. Moreover, this method may quantitatively profile protein glycosylation. Intact N-glycopeptides from the urine and plasma of healthy controls (HC), PTC, and PTC with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (PHT) were enriched by hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography. Sialic acid was removed from the N-glycopeptides with trifluoroacetic acid and heat. The desialo-N-glycopeptides were analyzed by HCD-MS/MS using stepped collision energies and several search engines for quantitative profiling. Ninety-two altered proteins and 134 intact N-glycopeptides were isolated from the plasma and urine samples of the three groups (90 samples from 15 subjects). To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to compare the plasma and urinary proteomes and glycoproteomes of HC, PTC, and PHT. Moreover, we reveal a novel indicator (ratio of fucosylated to nonfucosylated N-glycopeptide or F/NF) through desialo-N-glycopeptide analysis. These differently expressed glycoproteins and F/NF may serve as biomarkers contributing to clinical cancer diagnostics and could be used to improve diagnostic accuracy noninvasively.
PXD015168	31801073	Overcoming Steric Restrictions of VRC01 HIV-1 Neutralizing Antibodies through Immunization. 	Overcoming steric restrictions of VRC01 HIV-1 neutralizing antibodies through  immunization	426c core, Antibody, Glycan, HIV, Immunization, Mice, N276, VRC01, bNAb	Broadly HIV-1 neutralizing VRC01 class antibodies target the CD4-binding site of Env. They are derived from VH1-2(*)02 antibody heavy chains paired with rare light chains expressing 5-amino acid-long CDRL3s. They have been isolated from infected subjects but have not yet been elicited by immunization. Env-derived immunogens capable of binding the germline forms of VRC01 B cell receptors on naive B cells have been designed and evaluated in knockin mice. However, the elicited antibodies cannot bypass glycans present on the conserved position N276 of Env, which restricts access to the CD4-binding site. Efforts to guide the appropriate maturation of these antibodies by sequential immunization have not yet been successful. Here, we report on a two-step immunization scheme that leads to the maturation of VRC01-like antibodies capable of accommodating the N276 glycan and displaying autologous tier 2 neutralizing activities. Our results are relevant to clinical trials aiming to elicit VRC01 antibodies.
PXD015733	31801093	Quantitative In Vivo Proteomics of Metformin Response in Liver Reveals AMPK-Dependent and -Independent Signaling Networks. 	Quantitative In Vivo Proteomics of Metformin Response in Liver Reveals AMPK-Dependent and -Independent Signaling Networks	14-3-3, AMPK, LKB1, MK2, PKD, SILAM, STIM1, STIM2, aging, calcium, cancer, diabetes, kinase, liver, metformin	Metformin is the front-line treatment for type 2 diabetes worldwide. It acts via effects on glucose and lipid metabolism in metabolic tissues, leading to enhanced insulin sensitivity. Despite significant effort, the molecular basis for metformin response remains poorly understood, with a limited number of specific biochemical pathways studied to date. To broaden our understanding of hepatic metformin response, we combine phospho-protein enrichment in tissue from genetically engineered mice with a quantitative proteomics platform to enable the discovery and quantification of basophilic kinase substrates in vivo. We define proteins whose binding to 14-3-3 are acutely regulated by metformin treatment and/or loss of the serine/threonine kinase, LKB1. Inducible binding of 250 proteins following metformin treatment is observed, 44% of which proteins bind in a manner requiring LKB1. Beyond AMPK, metformin activates protein kinase D and MAPKAPK2 in an LKB1-independent manner, revealing additional kinases that may mediate aspects of metformin response. Deeper analysis uncovered substrates of AMPK in endocytosis and calcium homeostasis.
PXD016396	31801253	mTORC1 Mediates Lysine-Induced Satellite Cell Activation to Promote Skeletal Muscle Growth. 	Sus scrofa, skeletal muscle, LC-MSMS	ProteomeXchange project tag: Skeletal Muscle Proteome (B/D-HPP), Sus scrofa, skeletal muscle	As the first limiting amino acid, lysine (Lys) has been thought to promote muscle fiber hypertrophy by increasing protein synthesis. However, the functions of Lys seem far more complex than that. Despite the fact that satellite cells (SCs) play an important role in skeletal muscle growth, the communication between Lys and SCs remains unclear. In this study, we investigated whether SCs participate directly in Lys-induced skeletal muscle growth and whether the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) pathway was activated both in vivo and in vitro to mediate SC functions in response to Lys supplementation. Subsequently, the skeletal muscle growth of piglets was controlled by dietary Lys supplementation. Isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) analysis showed activated SCs were required for longissimus dorsi muscle growth, and this effect was accompanied by mTORC1 pathway upregulation. Furthermore, SC proliferation was governed by medium Lys concentrations, and the mTORC1 pathway was significantly enhanced in vitro. After verifying that rapamycin inhibits the mTORC1 pathway and suppresses SC proliferation, we conclude that Lys is not only a molecular building block for protein synthesis but also a signal that activates SCs to manipulate muscle growth via the mTORC1 pathway.
PXD014629	31801345	Quantitative Analysis of in Vivo Methionine Oxidation of the Human Proteome. 	Quantitative analysis of in vivo methionine oxidation of the human proteome	human cell line, methionine oxidation, unstressed proteome	The oxidation of methionine is an important post-translational modification of proteins with numerous roles in physiology and pathology. However, the quantitative analysis of methionine oxidation on a proteome-wide scale has been hampered by technical limitations. Methionine is readily oxidized in vitro during sample preparation and analysis. In addition, there is a lack of enrichment protocols for peptides that contain an oxidized methionine residue, making the accurate quantification of methionine oxidation difficult to achieve on a global scale. Herein, we report a methodology to circumvent these issues by isotopically labeling unoxidized methionines with (18)O-labeled hydrogen peroxide and quantifying the relative ratios of (18)O- and (16)O-oxidized methionines. We validate our methodology using artificially oxidized proteomes made to mimic varying degrees of methionine oxidation. Using this method, we identify and quantify a number of novel sites of in vivo methionine oxidation in an unstressed human cell line.
PXD012512	31801946	Extensive protein S-nitrosylation associated with human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma pathogenesis. 	S-nitrosoproteome of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	PANC-1, S-nitrosoproteome, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	NO (nitric oxide)-mediated protein S-nitrosylation has been established as one major signaling mechanism underlying cancer initiation and development, but its roles in PDAC (pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma) pathogenesis still remain largely unexplored. In this study, we identified 585 unique S-nitrosylation sites among 434 proteins in PDAC patients and PANC-1 cell line by a site-specific proteomics. Larger number of S-nitrosylated proteins were identified in PDAC tissues and PANC-1 cells than adjacent non-cancerous tissues. These S-nitrosylated proteins are significantly enriched in a multitude of biological processes associated with tumorigenesis, including carbohydrate metabolism, cytoskeleton regulation, cell cycle, focal adhesion, adherent junctions, and cell migration. Components of the pancreatic cancer pathway were extensively S-nitrosylated, such as v-raf-1 murine leukemia viral oncogene homolog 1 (Raf-1) and Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Moreover, NOS (NO synthase) inhibitor significantly repressed STAT3 S-nitrosylation in PANC-1 cells, which caused significant increase of STAT3 phosphorylation and PANC-1 cell viability, suggesting important roles of protein S-nitrosylation in PDAC development. These results revealed extensive protein S-nitrosylation associated with PDAC pathogenesis, which provided a basis for protein modification-based cancer diagnosis and targeted therapy.
PXD010689	31803016	DYRK1A Overexpression Alters Cognition and Neural-Related Proteomic Pathways in the Hippocampus That Are Rescued by Green Tea Extract and/or Environmental Enrichment. 	Epigallocatechin-3-gallate restores hippocampal proteomic alterations driven by Dyrk1A overexpression in mice	down syndrome, dyrk1a, hippocampus	Down syndrome (DS), caused by trisomy of chromosome 21, is the most common genetic cause of intellectual disability. We recently discovered that green tea extracts containing epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) improve cognition in mice transgenic for Dyrk1a (TgDyrk1A) and in a trisomic DS mouse model (Ts65Dn). Interestingly, paired with cognitive stimulation, green tea has beneficial pro-cognitive effects in DS individuals. Dual Specificity Tyrosine-Phosphorylation-Regulated Kinase 1A (DYRK1A) is a major candidate to explain the cognitive phenotypes of DS, and inhibiting its activity is a promising pro-cognitive therapy. DYRK1A kinase activity can be normalized in the hippocampus of transgenic DYRK1A mice administering green tea extracts, but also submitting the animals to environmental enrichment (EE). However, many other mechanisms could also explain the pro-cognitive effects of green tea extracts and EE. To underpin the overall alterations arising upon DYRK1A overexpression and the molecular processes underneath the pro-cognitive effects, we used quantitative proteomics. We investigated the hippocampal (phospho)proteome in basal conditions and after treatment with a green tea extract containing EGCG and/or EE in TgDyrk1A and control mice. We found that Dyrk1A overexpression alters protein and phosphoprotein levels of key postsynaptic and plasticity-related pathways and that these alterations were rescued upon the cognitive enhancer treatments.
PXD014421	31803150	A TetR-Family Protein (CAETHG_0459) Activates Transcription From a New Promoter Motif Associated With Essential Genes for Autotrophic Growth in Acetogens. 	A TetR-Family Protein (CAETHG_0459) Activates Transcription From a New Promoter Motif Associated With Essential Genes for Autotrophic Growth in Acetogens	acetogen, data-dependent acquisition, gas fermentation	Acetogens can fix carbon (CO or CO2) into acetyl-CoA via the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway (WLP) that also makes them attractive cell factories for the production of fuels and chemicals from waste feedstocks. Although most biochemical details of the WLP are well understood and systems-level characterization of acetogen metabolism has recently improved, key transcriptional features such as promoter motifs and transcriptional regulators are still unknown in acetogens. Here, we use differential RNA-sequencing to identify a previously undescribed promoter motif associated with essential genes for autotrophic growth of the model-acetogen Clostridium autoethanogenum. RNA polymerase was shown to bind to the new promoter motif using a DNA-binding protein assay and proteomics enabled the discovery of four candidates to potentially function directly in control of transcription of the WLP and other key genes of C1 fixation metabolism. Next, in vivo experiments showed that a TetR-family transcriptional regulator (CAETHG_0459) and the housekeeping sigma factor (sigma(A)) activate expression of a reporter protein (GFP) in-frame with the new promoter motif from a fusion vector in Escherichia coli. Lastly, a protein-protein interaction assay with the RNA polymerase (RNAP) shows that CAETHG_0459 directly binds to the RNAP. Together, the data presented here advance the fundamental understanding of transcriptional regulation of C1 fixation in acetogens and provide a strategy for improving the performance of gas-fermenting bacteria by genetic engineering.
PXD015947	31803175	A Non-interventional Clinical Trial Assessing Immune Responses After Radiofrequency Ablation of Liver Metastases From Colorectal Cancer. 	A Non-interventional Clinical Trial Assessing Immune Responses After Radiofrequency Ablation of Liver Metastases From Colorectal Cancer	Colorectal adenocarcinoma, HLA, HLA-ligand, HLA-ligandomics, HLA-restricted peptide, cancer, colon, colon cancer, metastasis, neoplasia, peptide	Background: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is an established treatment option for malignancies located in the liver. RFA-induced irreversible coagulation necrosis leads to the release of danger signals and cellular content. Hence, RFA may constitute an endogenous in situ tumor vaccination, stimulating innate and adaptive immune responses, including tumor-antigen specific T cells. This may explain a phenomenon termed abscopal effect, namely tumor regression in untreated lesions evidenced after distant thermal ablation or irradiation. In this study, we therefore assessed systemic and local immune responses in individual patients treated with RFA. Methods: For this prospective clinical trial, patients with liver metastasis from colorectal carcinoma (mCRC) receiving RFA and undergoing metachronous liver surgery for another lesion were recruited (n = 9) during a 5-year period. Tumor and non-malignant liver tissue samples from six patients were investigated by whole transcriptome sequencing and tandem-mass spectrometry, characterizing naturally presented HLA ligands. Tumor antigen-derived HLA-restricted peptides were selected by different predefined approaches. Further, candidate HLA ligands were manually curated. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were stimulated in vitro with epitope candidate peptides, and functional T cell responses were assessed by intracellular cytokine staining. Immunohistochemical markers were additionally investigated in surgically resected mCRC from patients treated with (n = 9) or without RFA (n = 7). Results: In all six investigated patients, either induced immune responses and/or pre-existing T cell immunity against the selected targets were observed. Multi-cytokine responses were inter alia directed against known tumor antigens such as cyclin D1 but also against a (predicted) mutation contained in ERBB3. Immunohistochemistry did not show a relevant influx of immune cells into distant malignant lesions after RFA treatment (n = 9) as compared to the surgery only mCRC group (n = 7). Conclusions: Using an individualized approach for target selection, RFA induced and/or boosted T cell responses specific for individual tumor antigens were more frequently detectable as compared to previously published observations with well-characterized tumor antigens. However, the witnessed modest RFA-induced immunological effects alone may not be sufficient for the rejection of established tumors. Therefore, these findings warrant further clinical investigation including the assessment of RFA combination therapies e.g., with immune stimulatory agents, cancer vaccination, and/or immune checkpoint inhibitors.
PXD015580	31803176	An in silico-in vitro Pipeline Identifying an HLA-A(*)02:01(+) KRAS G12V(+) Spliced Epitope Candidate for a Broad Tumor-Immune Response in Cancer Patients. 	KRAS G12V digestion by 20S proteasome	KRAS, cancer, digestion, proteasome	Targeting CD8(+) T cells to recurrent tumor-specific mutations can profoundly contribute to cancer treatment. Some of these mutations are potential tumor antigens although they can be displayed by non-spliced epitopes only in a few patients, because of the low affinity of the mutated non-spliced peptides for the predominant HLA class I alleles. Here, we describe a pipeline that uses the large sequence variety of proteasome-generated spliced peptides and identifies spliced epitope candidates, which carry the mutations and bind the predominant HLA-I alleles with high affinity. They could be used in adoptive T cell therapy and other anti-cancer immunotherapies for large cohorts of cancer patients. As a proof of principle, the application of this pipeline led to the identification of a KRAS G12V mutation-carrying spliced epitope candidate, which is produced by proteasomes, transported by TAPs and efficiently presented by the most prevalent HLA class I molecules, HLA-A(*)02:01 complexes.
PXD016013	31803186	Rapid Proteome Changes in Plasma and Cerebrospinal Fluid Following Bacterial Infection in Preterm Newborn Pigs. 	Data in support ofRapid proteome changes in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid following bacterial infection in preterm newborn pigs	csf, pig, sepsis	Background: Neonatal infection and sepsis are common for preterm infants due to their immature immune system. Early diagnosis is important for effective treatment, but few early markers of systemic and neuro-inflammatory responses in neonates are known. We hypothesised that systemic infection with Staphylococcus epidermidis (SE), a Gram-positive bacteria, induces acute changes to proteins in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), potentially affecting the immature brain of preterm neonates. Methods: Using preterm pigs as a model for preterm infants, plasma and CSF samples were collected up to 24 h after SE infection and investigated by untargeted mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics. Multiple differentially expressed proteins were further studied in vitro. Results: The clinical signs of sepsis and neuroinflammation in SE-infected piglets were associated with changes of multiple CSF and plasma proteins. Eight plasma proteins, including APOA4, haptoglobin, MBL1, vWF, LBP, and sCD14, were affected 6 h after infection. Acute phase reactants, including complement components, showed a time-dependent activation pattern after infection. Feeding bovine colostrum reduced the sepsis-related changes in clinical indices and plasma proteins. Neuroinflammation-related neuropeptide Y (NPY), IL-18, and MMP-14 showed distinct changes in the CSF and several brain regions (the prefrontal cortex, PVWM, and hippocampus) 24 h after infection. These changes were verified in TLR2 agonist-challenged primary microglia cells, where exogenous NPY suppressed the inflammatory response. Conclusion: Systemic infection with SE induces inflammation with rapid proteome changes in the plasma and CSF in preterm newborn pigs. The observed early markers of sepsis and neuroinflammation in preterm pigs may serve as novel biomarkers for sepsis in preterm infants.
PXD015137	31803364	Tumor tissue hnRNP M and HSP 90alpha as potential predictors of disease-specific mortality in patients with early-stage cutaneous head and neck melanoma: A proteomics-based study. 	hnRNP M and HSP 90alpha as Potential Biomarkers in Early Stage Cutaneous Head and Neck Melanoma Tissue	HSP 90alpha, biomarkers, early stage, hnRNP M, melanoma, tissue	BACKGROUND: Breslow tumor thickness and mitotic rate are standardly used for risk stratification of patients with malignant melanoma. However, their prognostic value is relatively limited and a need for improved prognostication has been advocated. We aimed to screen the tumor tissue proteome in a search for potentially useful prognostic factors in early-stage cutaneous head and neck melanoma. METHODOLOGY AND FINDINGS: Proteomic profiles of archival formalin-fixed tissue samples of 31 patients (age 23-90 years) with early-stage head and neck cutaneous malignant melanoma (American Joint Committee on Cancer, AJCC, stage I/II) were determined and expression intensities were compared to those of melanocytic nevi, yielding ratios used in data analysis. Medical charts were retrospectively reviewed to determine time elapsed since diagnosis to disease-specific death or censoring. In a multivariate recursive partitioning analysis (as per AJCC guidelines), higher expression levels of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein M (hnRNP M) [n = 18, HR = 1.94 vs. the entire cohort; HR = 5.95 (95%CI 2.43-14.5) for "high" vs. "low" (n = 13)] and of heat shock protein 90 alpha (HSP 90alpha) [n = 17, HR = 2.09 vs. the entire cohort; HR = 4.59 (95%CI 1.87-11.2) for "high" vs. "low" (n = 14)] were each independently strongly associated with higher mortality (accounting for clinical and standard pathohistological features). Higher Breslow thickness and mitotic rate were associated with higher mortality only when proteomic data were disregarded. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: Data suggest that tumor tissue expression of hnRNP M and/or of HSP 90alpha deserve further investigation and clinical validation as potential novel risk stratification aids in patients with stage I-II cutaneous head and neck malignant melanoma.
PXD014957	31803741	A Combined Mass Spectrometry and Data Integration Approach to Predict the Mitochondrial Poly(A) RNA Interacting Proteome. 	Mass spectrometry approach to identify mitochondrial poly(A) RNA interacting proteins	4-thiouridine labelling & crosslinking, mitochondrial RNA	In order to synthesize the 13 oxidative phosphorylation proteins encoded by mammalian mtDNA, a large assortment of nuclear encoded proteins is required. These include mitoribosomal proteins and various RNA processing, modification and degradation enzymes. RNA crosslinking has been successfully applied to identify whole-cell poly(A) RNA-binding proteomes, but this method has not been adapted to identify mitochondrial poly(A) RNA-binding proteomes. Here we developed and compared two related methods that specifically enrich for mitochondrial poly(A) RNA-binding proteins and analyzed bound proteins using mass spectrometry. To obtain a catalog of the mitochondrial poly(A) RNA interacting proteome, we used Bayesian data integration to combine these two mitochondrial-enriched datasets as well as published whole-cell datasets of RNA-binding proteins with various online resources, such as mitochondrial localization from MitoCarta 2.0 and co-expression analyses. Our integrated analyses ranked the complete human proteome for the likelihood of mtRNA interaction. We show that at a specific, inclusive cut-off of the corrected false discovery rate (cFDR) of 69%, we improve the number of predicted proteins from 185 to 211 with our mass spectrometry data as input for the prediction instead of the published whole-cell datasets. The chosen cut-off determines the cFDR: the less proteins included, the lower the cFDR will be. For the top 100 proteins, inclusion of our data instead of the published whole-cell datasets improve the cFDR from 54% to 31%. We show that the mass spectrometry method most specific for mitochondrial RNA-binding proteins involves ex vivo 4-thiouridine labeling followed by mitochondrial isolation with subsequent in organello UV-crosslinking.
PXD016110	31804482	Aurora-A mediated phosphorylation of LDHB promotes glycolysis and tumor progression by relieving the substrate-inhibition effect. 	293T Flag-Aurora-A Co-IP LC-MSMS	293T, Flag-Aurora-A Co-IP	Overexpressed Aurora-A kinase promotes tumor growth through various pathways, but whether Aurora-A is also involved in metabolic reprogramming-mediated cancer progression remains unknown. Here, we report that Aurora-A directly interacts with and phosphorylates lactate dehydrogenase B (LDHB), a subunit of the tetrameric enzyme LDH that catalyzes the interconversion between pyruvate and lactate. Aurora-A-mediated phosphorylation of LDHB serine 162 significantly increases its activity in reducing pyruvate to lactate, which efficiently promotes NAD(+) regeneration, glycolytic flux, lactate production and bio-synthesis with glycolytic intermediates. Mechanistically, LDHB serine 162 phosphorylation relieves its substrate inhibition effect by pyruvate, resulting in remarkable elevation in the conversions of pyruvate and NADH to lactate and NAD(+). Blocking S162 phosphorylation by expression of a LDHB-S162A mutant inhibited glycolysis and tumor growth in cancer cells and xenograft models. This study uncovers a function of Aurora-A in glycolytic modulation and a mechanism through which LDHB directly contributes to the Warburg effect.
PXD013803	31804568	Identification of potential chemosignals in the European water vole Arvicola terrestris. 	Identification of potential chemical signals in the European water vole Arvicola terrestris	Arvicola terrestris, GC-MS, arvicolin, de novo sequencing, lateral scent glands, odorant binding proteins, urinary volatiles, water vole	The water vole Arvicola terrestris is endemic to Europe where its outbreak generates severe economic losses for farmers. Our project aimed at characterising putative chemical signals used by this species, to develop new sustainable methods for population control that could also be used for this species protection in Great Britain. The water vole, as well as other rodents, uses specific urination sites as territorial and sex pheromone markers, still unidentified. Lateral scent glands and urine samples were collected from wild males and females caught in the field, at different periods of the year. Their volatile composition was analysed for each individual and not on pooled samples, revealing a specific profile of flank glands in October and a specific profile of urinary volatiles in July. The urinary protein content appeared more contrasted as males secrete higher levels of a lipocalin than females, whenever the trapping period. We named this protein arvicolin. Male and female liver transcript sequencing did not identify any expression of other odorant-binding protein sequence. This work demonstrates that even in absence of genome, identification of chemical signals from wild animals is possible and could be helpful in strategies of species control and protection.
PXD014222	31805664	Proteogenomics of Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases: Complementing Precision Oncology with Phenotypic Data. 	Proteogenomics of colorectal cancer liver metastases	Colorectal Cancer, PRM, Proteogenomics	: Hotspot testing for activating KRAS mutations is used in precision oncology to select colorectal cancer (CRC) patients who are eligible for anti-EGFR treatment. However, even for KRAS(wildtype) tumors anti-EGFR response rates are <30%, while mutated-KRAS does not entirely rule out response, indicating the need for improved patient stratification. We performed proteogenomic phenotyping of KRAS(wildtype) and KRAS(G12V) CRC liver metastases (mCRC). Among >9000 proteins we detected considerable expression changes including numerous proteins involved in progression and resistance in CRC. We identified peptides representing a number of predicted somatic mutations, including KRAS(G12V). For eight of these, we developed a multiplexed parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mass spectrometry assay to precisely quantify the mutated and canonical protein variants. This allowed phenotyping of eight mCRC tumors and six paired healthy tissues, by determining mutation rates on the protein level. Total KRAS expression varied between tumors (0.47-1.01 fmol/microg total protein) and healthy tissues (0.13-0.64 fmol/microg). In KRAS(G12V)-mCRC, G12V-mutation levels were 42-100%, while one patient had only 10% KRAS(G12V) but 90% KRAS(wildtype). This might represent a missed therapeutic opportunity: based on hotspot sequencing, the patient was excluded from anti-EGFR treatment and instead received chemotherapy, while PRM-based tumor-phenotyping indicates the patient might have benefitted from anti-EGFR therapy.
PXD015024	31809901	Proteomic analysis of whole saliva in chronic periodontitis. 	Proteomic Analysis of Whole Saliva in Chronic Periodontitis	periodontal health, periodontitis, saliva	Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease resulting from a dysbiosis of the dental biofilm and a dysregulated host response in susceptible individuals. It is characterized by periodontal attachment destruction, bone resorption and eventual tooth loss. Salivary biomarkers have been sought to predict and prevent periodontitis. This comparative study analyzed the salivary proteome of individuals with chronic periodontitis (CP) and periodontal health (PH) and correlated specific proteins with clinical parameters of disease by using mass spectrometry. Stimulated whole saliva was obtained 10 PH and 30 CP patients and pooled into 5 healthy control samples and 15 CP samples. After precipitation with TCA, samples were digested enzymatically with trypsin and analyzed by a LTQ Orbitrap Velos equipped with a nanoelectrospray ion source. A wide range of salivary proteins of various functions was significantly reduced in CP individuals, whereas salivary acidic proline-rich phosphoprotein, submaxillary gland androgen-regulated protein, histatin-1, fatty acid binding protein, thioredoxin and cystatin-SA were predominant in diseased patients and correlated significantly with signs of periodontal attachment loss and inflammation. In conclusion, few specific salivary proteins were associated with CP. These findings may contribute to the identification of disease indicators or signatures for the improvement of periodontal diagnosis. SIGNIFICANCE: Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease that results in periodontal attachment destruction, bone resorption and eventual tooth loss. Salivary biomarkers have been sought to predict periodontitis. The analysis of the salivary proteome of individuals with chronic periodontitis indicated that several proteins of various functions were significantly reduced in these individuals, except for salivary acidic proline-rich phosphoprotein, submaxillary gland androgen-regulated protein, histatin, fatty acid binding protein, thioredoxin and cystatin. Differences in salivary proteome profiles between periodontal health and periodontitis may contribute to the identification of disease indicators and to the improvement of periodontal diagnosis and treatment.
PXD008834	31811746	Proteomics Analysis of Candida albicans dnm1 Haploid Mutant Unraveled the Association between Mitochondrial Fission and Antifungal Susceptibility. 	Proteomic analysis of Candida albicans dnm1 mutant	Candida albicans, dnm1, iTRAQ	Candida albicans is a major fungal pathogen, accounting for approximately 15% of healthcare infections with associated mortality as high as 40% in the case of systemic candidiasis. Antifungal agents for C. albicans infections are limited, and rising resistance is an inevitable problem. Therefore, understanding the mechanism behind antifungal responses is among the top research focuses in combating Candida infections. Herein, the recently developed C. albicans haploid model is employed to examine the association between mitochondrial fission, regulated by Dnm1, and the pathogen's response to antifungals. Proteomic analysis of dnm1Delta and its wild-type haploid parent, GZY803, reveal changes in proteins associated with mitochondrial structures and functions, cell wall, and plasma membrane. Antifungal susceptibility testing revealed that dnm1Delta is more susceptible to SM21, a novel antifungal, than GZY803. Analyses of reactive oxygen species release, antioxidant response, lipid peroxidation, and membrane damages uncover an association between dnm1Delta and the susceptibility to SM21. Dynasore-induced mitochondrial inhibition in SC5314 diploids corroborate the findings. Interestingly, Dynasore-primed SC5314 cultures exhibit increased susceptibility to all antifungals tested. These data suggest an important contribution of mitochondrial fission in antifungal susceptibility of C. albicans. Hence, mitochondrial fission can be a potential target for combined therapy in anti-C. albicans treatment.
PXD015438	31812349	Functional Translatome Proteomics Reveal Converging and Dose-Dependent Regulation by mTORC1 and eIF2alpha. 	Functional Translatome Proteomics Reveal Converging and Dose-Dependent Regulation by mTORC1 and eIF2alpha	TMT, pSILAC, translation	Regulation of translation is essential during stress. However, the precise sets of proteins regulated by the key translational stress responses-the integrated stress response (ISR) and mTORC1-remain elusive. We developed multiplexed enhanced protein dynamics (mePROD) proteomics, adding signal amplification to dynamic-SILAC and multiplexing, to enable measuring acute changes in protein synthesis. Treating cells with ISR/mTORC1-modulating stressors, we showed extensive translatome modulation with ~20% of proteins synthesized at highly reduced rates. Comparing translation-deficient sub-proteomes revealed an extensive overlap demonstrating that target specificity is achieved on protein level and not by pathway activation. Titrating cap-dependent translation inhibition confirmed that synthesis of individual proteins is controlled by intrinsic properties responding to global translation attenuation. This study reports a highly sensitive method to measure relative translation at the nascent chain level and provides insight into how the ISR and mTORC1, two key cellular pathways, regulate the translatome to guide cellular survival upon stress.
PXD014586	31813822	Disruption of Acetyl-Lysine Turnover in Muscle Mitochondria Promotes Insulin Resistance and Redox Stress without Overt Respiratory Dysfunction. 	Disruption of acetyl-lysine turnover in muscle mitochondria promotes insulin resistance and redox stress without overt respiratory dysfunction	Insulin Resistance, Mitochondrial Bioenergetics, Protein Acetylation	This study sought to examine the functional significance of mitochondrial protein acetylation using a double knockout (DKO) mouse model harboring muscle-specific deficits in acetyl-CoA buffering and lysine deacetylation, due to genetic ablation of carnitine acetyltransferase and Sirtuin 3, respectively. DKO mice are highly susceptible to extreme hyperacetylation of the mitochondrial proteome and develop a more severe form of diet-induced insulin resistance than either single KO mouse line. However, the functional phenotype of hyperacetylated DKO mitochondria is largely normal. Of the >120 measures of respiratory function assayed, the most consistently observed traits of a markedly heightened acetyl-lysine landscape are enhanced oxygen flux in the context of fatty acid fuel and elevated rates of electron leak. In sum, the findings challenge the notion that lysine acetylation causes broad-ranging damage to mitochondrial quality and performance and raise the possibility that acetyl-lysine turnover, rather than acetyl-lysine stoichiometry, modulates redox balance and carbon flux.
PXD015153	31814412	A Serial Sample Processing Strategy with Improved Performance for in-Depth Quantitative Analysis of Type III Secretion Events in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	A serial sample processing strategy with improved performance for in-depth quantitative analysis of type III secretion events in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Protein precipitation, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, SP3, Secretome	The efficient analysis of secretomes is important to study the mechanisms of bacterial secretion. However, secretome analysis of bacteria that rely on rich media for optimal secretion via modern quantitative shotgun proteomics workflows is often hampered by the higher degree of sample impurities. This may be a reason for the low number of quantitative secretome investigations in such cases. We assessed the efficiency and amenability for rich media secretome analysis of different workflows including precipitation, SP3, and a combined, serial workflow. Using the model organism Pseudomonas aeruginosa, we found that the combined TCA-SP3 strategy outperformed the other tested methods on all monitored qualitative and quantitative levels. This method proved to be most efficient in the recovery of proteins secreted by the type III secretion system (T3SS), including all known effector proteins and secretion machinery components. We monitored the compositional changes of secretome samples over time, and observed a strong increase in the secreted protein fraction by the T3SS 2 to 3 h after T3SS induction. Our study conceptually illustrates how the combination of TCA precipitation and SP3 results in orthogonality in depleting sample impurities accompanied by improved chromatographic peptide separation, and more efficient MS detection with improved quantification parameters.
PXD014565	31814417	Systematic Comparison of Label-Free, SILAC, and TMT Techniques to Study Early Adaption toward Inhibition of EGFR Signaling in the Colorectal Cancer Cell Line DiFi. 	A systematic comparison of label-free, SILAC and TMT techniques to study early adaption towards inhibition of EGFR signaling in the colorectal cancer cell line Difi	Adaptive mechanism, Cetuximab, Colorectal cancer, ERBB3, MAPK, Phosphoproteomics, SILAC, TMT, anti-EGFR therapy, label-free	We evaluated the quantification strategies label-free (LF), stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC), and tandem mass tags (TMT) and their performance in quantification of proteins and phosphosites (p-sites) to identify the most powerful approach for monitoring cellular signaling. We analyzed the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling network, which plays an essential role in colorectal cancer, and studied its dynamics within 24 h upon treatment with the EGFR-blocking antibody cetuximab, representing the first cellular adaption toward therapy. LF achieved superior coverage but was outperformed by label-based approaches regarding technical variability, especially for quantification of p-sites. TMT showed the lowest coverage and most missing values. We found that its performance considerably decreases when experimental replicates are distributed over several TMT plexes. SILAC showed the highest precision and outstanding performance for quantification of p-sites, rendering it the method of choice for analyzing cellular signaling in cell culture models. On the protein level, we observed only little regulation upon cetuximab treatment, whereas a great fraction of p-sites was significantly regulated. These dynamics represented an initial downregulation of the MAPK pathway, which was partially rescued as early as 24 h after treatment. We identified upregulation and signaling via ERBB3 as well as calcium and cAMP signaling as possible mechanisms bypassing the blockage of EGFR.
PXD015567	31814986	Global analysis of lysine succinylation in patchouli plant leaves. 	Proteomic Analysis of Lysine Acetylation and succinylation in pogostemon cablin	Proteomic Acetylation Succinylation pogostemon cablin	Lysine succinylation is a novel, naturally occurring posttranslational modification (PTM) in living organisms. Global lysine succinylation identification has been performed at the proteomic level in various species; however, the study of lysine succinylation in plant species is relatively limited. Patchouli plant (P. cablin (Blanco) Benth., Lamiaceae) is a globally important industrial plant and medicinal herb. In the present study, lysine succinylome analysis was carried out in patchouli plants to determine the potential regulatory role of lysine succinylation in patchouli growth, development, and physiology. The global succinylation sites and proteins in patchouli plants were screened with an immunoprecipitation affinity enrichment technique and advanced mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Several bioinformatic analyses, such as function classification and enrichment, subcellular location predication, metabolic pathway enrichment and protein-protein interaction networking, were conducted to characterize the functions of the identified sites and proteins. In total, 1097 succinylation sites in 493 proteins were detected in patchouli plants, among which 466 succinylation sites in 241 proteins were repeatedly identified within three independent experiments. The functional characterization of these proteins indicated that the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, photosynthesis processes, and amino acid biosynthesis may be regulated by lysine succinylation. In addition, these succinylated proteins showed a wide subcellular location distribution, although the chloroplast and cytoplasm were the top two preferred cellular components. Our study suggested the important role of lysine succinylation in patchouli plant physiology and biology and could serve as a useful reference for succinylation studies in other medicinal plants.
PXD011007	31815268	Comprehensive and comparative exploration of the Atp7b(-/-) mouse plasma proteome. 	Proteomics exploration of the Atp7b-/- mouse plasma proteome: translational relevance for the diagnosis of Wilson's disease	LC-SRM, Wilsons disease, biomarkers, liver, nanoLC-MS/MS	Wilson's disease (WD), a rare genetic disease caused by mutations in the ATP7B gene, is associated with altered expression and/or function of the copper-transporting ATP7B protein, leading to massive toxic accumulation of copper in the liver and brain. The Atp7b(-/-) mouse, a genetic and phenotypic model of WD, was developed to provide new insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of WD. Many plasma proteins are secreted by the liver, and impairment of liver function can trigger changes to the plasma proteome. High standard proteomics workflows can identify such changes. Here, we explored the plasma proteome of the Atp7b(-/-) mouse using a mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics workflow combining unbiased discovery analysis followed by targeted quantification. Among the 367 unique plasma proteins identified, 7 proteins were confirmed as differentially abundant between Atp7b(-/-) mice and wild-type littermates, and were directly linked to WD pathophysiology (regeneration of liver parenchyma, plasma iron depletion, etc.). We then adapted our targeted proteomics assay to quantify human orthologues of these proteins in plasma from copper-chelator-treated WD patients. The plasma proteome changes observed in the Atp7b(-/-) mouse were not confirmed in these samples, except for alpha-1 antichymotrypsin, levels of which were decreased in WD patients compared to healthy individuals. Plasma ceruloplasmin was investigated in both the Atp7b(-/-) mouse model and human patients; it was significantly decreased in the human form of WD only. In conclusion, MS-based proteomics is a method of choice to identify proteome changes in murine models of disrupted metal homeostasis, and allows their validation in human cohorts.
PXD015986	31815942	An MCM family protein promotes interhomolog recombination by preventing precocious intersister repair of meiotic DSBs. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of immunoprecipitation samples of Tetrahymena meiotic proteins Mcmd1 and Pamd1	Immunoprecipitation, Meiosis, Tetrahymena thermophila	Recombinational repair of meiotic DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) uses the homologous chromosome as a template, although the sister chromatid offers itself as a spatially more convenient substrate. In many organisms, this choice is reinforced by the recombination protein Dmc1. In Tetrahymena, the repair of DSBs, which are formed early in prophase, is postponed to late prophase when homologous chromosomes and sister chromatids become juxtaposed owing to tight parallel packing in the thread-shaped nucleus, and thus become equally suitable for use as repair templates. The delay in DSB repair is achieved by rejection of the invading strand by the Sgs1 helicase in early meiotic prophase. In the absence of Mcmd1, a meiosis-specific minichromosome maintenance (MCM)-like protein (and its partner Pamd1), Dmc1 is prematurely lost from chromatin and DNA synthesis (as monitored by BrdU incorporation) takes place in early prophase. In mcmd1Delta and pamd1Delta mutants, only a few crossovers are formed. In a mcmd1Delta hop2Delta double mutant, normal timing of Dmc1 loss and DNA synthesis is restored. Because Tetrahymena Hop2 is believed to enable homologous strand invasion, we conclude that Dmc1 loss in the absence of Mcmd1 affects only post-invasion recombination intermediates. Therefore, we propose that the Dmc1 nucleofilament becomes dismantled immediately after forming a heteroduplex with a template strand. As a consequence, repair synthesis and D-loop extension starts in early prophase intermediates and prevents strand rejection before the completion of homologous pairing. In this case, DSB repair may primarily use the sister chromatid. We conclude that Mcmd1-Pamd1 protects the Dmc1 nucleofilament from premature dismantling, thereby suppressing precocious repair synthesis and excessive intersister strand exchange at the cost of homologous recombination.
PXD014275	31816243	Bisphenol A Activates an Innate Viral Immune Response Pathway. 	The impact of Bisphenol A on immunity and asthmatic inheritance  revealed from a major proteomics study	Asthma, Bisphenol A, Immune Response	Bisphenol A (BPA) is a ubiquitous component in the manufacturing of plastic. It is commonly found in food and beverage containers. Because of its broad exposure and evidence that it may act as an estrogen-like molecule, many have studied its potential effects. For example, epidemiological studies have found an association between in utero BPA exposure and onset of childhood asthma. Our previous work suggested BPA treated mice induced asthma-like symptoms in both mothers and their pups. In order to better understand theconsequences of BPA exposure and potential mechanisms, we used a proteomics approach. Using both CD4(+) T cells from an in vivo model of BPA exposure and an in vitro epithelial cell model, we identified activation of both innate and adaptive immune signaling following BPA exposure. Furthermore, our proteomic results from our multigenerational mouse model study implicates aberrant immune activation across several generations. We propose the following; BPA can active an innate viral immune response by upregulating a probable palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC1, and its binding partner stimulator of interferon-gamma (STING). It also has additional histone epigenetic perturbations, suggesting a role for epigenetic inheritance of these immune perturbations.
PXD016218	31816312	WNK1 phosphorylation sites in TBC1D1 and TBC1D4 modulate cell surface expression of GLUT1. 	WNK1-specific phosphorylation sites in TBC1D1 and TBC1D4 modulate cell surface expression of GLUT1	phosphorylation	Glucose uptake by mammalian cells is a key mechanism to maintain cell and tissue homeostasis and relies mostly on plasma membrane-localized glucose transporter proteins (GLUTs). Two main cellular mechanisms regulate GLUT proteins in the cell: first, expression of GLUT genes is under dynamic transcriptional control and is used by cancer cells to increase glucose availability. Second, GLUT proteins are regulated by membrane traffic from storage vesicles to the plasma membrane (PM). This latter process is triggered by signaling mechanisms and well-studied in the case of insulin-responsive cells, which activate protein kinase AKT to phosphorylate TBC1D4, a RAB-GTPase activating protein involved in membrane traffic regulation. Previously, we identified protein kinase WNK1 as another kinase able to phosphorylate TBC1D4 and regulate the surface expression of the constitutive glucose transporter GLUT1. Here we describe that downregulation of WNK1 through RNA interference in HEK293 cells led to a 2-fold decrease in PM GLUT1 expression, concomitant with a 60% decrease in glucose uptake. By mass spectrometry, we identified serine (S) 704 in TBC1D4 as a WNK1-regulated phosphorylation site, and also S565 in the paralogue TBC1D1. Transfection of the respective phosphomimetic or unphosphorylatable TBC1D mutants into cells revealed that both affected the cell surface abundance of GLUT1. The results reinforce a regulatory role for WNK1 in cell metabolism and have potential impact for the understanding of cancer cell metabolism and therapeutic options in type 2 diabetes.
PXD017035	31816881	The Simplified Human Intestinal Microbiota (SIHUMIx) Shows High Structural and Functional Resistance against Changing Transit Times in In Vitro Bioreactors. 	Simplified Human Intestinal Microbiota (SIHUMIx) LC-MS/MS dataset	In vitro model, ProteomeXchange project tag: benchmarking, SIHUMIx, bioreactor, intestinal microbiota, machine learning, metaproteomics, microbial community	Many functions in host-microbiota interactions are potentially influenced by intestinal transit times, but little is known about the effects of altered transition times on the composition and functionality of gut microbiota. To analyze these effects, we cultivated the model community SIHUMIx in bioreactors in order to determine the effects of varying transit times (TT) on the community structure and function. After five days of continuous cultivation, we investigated the influence of different medium TT of 12 h, 24 h, and 48 h. For profiling the microbial community, we applied flow cytometric fingerprinting and revealed changes in the community structure of SIHUMIx during the change of TT, which were not associated with changes in species abundances. For pinpointing metabolic alterations, we applied metaproteomics and metabolomics and found, along with shortening the TT, a slight decrease in glycan biosynthesis, carbohydrate, and amino acid metabolism and, furthermore, a reduction in butyrate, methyl butyrate, isobutyrate, valerate, and isovalerate concentrations. Specifically, B. thetaiotaomicron was identified to be affected in terms of butyrate metabolism. However, communities could recover to the original state afterward. This study shows that SIHUMIx showed high structural stability when TT changed-even four-fold. Resistance values remained high, which suggests that TTs did not interfere with the structure of the community to a certain degree.
PXD016490	31817087	Proteome and Ubiquitome Changes during Rose Petal Senescence. 	Proteome and Ubiquitome Changes during Rose Petal Senescence	Rose hybrid, petal senescence, ubiquitination	Petal senescence involves numerous programmed changes in biological and biochemical processes. Ubiquitination plays a critical role in protein degradation, a hallmark of organ senescence. Therefore, we investigated changes in the proteome and ubiquitome of senescing rose (Rosa hybrida) petals to better understand their involvement in petal senescence. Of 3859 proteins quantified in senescing petals, 1198 were upregulated, and 726 were downregulated during senescence. We identified 2208 ubiquitinated sites, including 384 with increased ubiquitination in 298 proteins and 1035 with decreased ubiquitination in 674 proteins. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses revealed that proteins related to peptidases in proteolysis and autophagy pathways were enriched in the proteome, suggesting that protein degradation and autophagy play important roles in petal senescence. In addition, many transporter proteins accumulated in senescing petals, and several transport processes were enriched in the ubiquitome, indicating that transport of substances is associated with petal senescence and regulated by ubiquitination. Moreover, several components of the brassinosteroid (BR) biosynthesis and signaling pathways were significantly altered at the protein and ubiquitination levels, implying that BR plays an important role in petal senescence. Our data provide a comprehensive view of rose petal senescence at the posttranslational level.
PXD014874	31817645	SWATH Differential Abundance Proteomics and Cellular Assays Show In Vitro Anticancer Activity of Arachidonic Acid- and Docosahexaenoic Acid-Based Monoacylglycerols in HT-29 Colorectal Cancer Cells. 	SWATH differential abundance proteomics and cellular assays show in vitro anticancer activity of arachidonic and docosahexaenoic acid monoacylglycerols in HT-29 colorectal cancer cell line	SWATH, arachidonic acid., colorectal cancer, docosahexaenoic acid, monoacylglycerol	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common and mortal types of cancer. There is increasing evidence that some polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) exercise specific inhibitory actions on cancer cells through different mechanisms, as a previous study on CRC cells demonstrated for two very long-chain PUFA. These were docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n3) and arachidonic acid (ARA, 20:4n6) in the free fatty acid (FFA) form. In this work, similar design and technology have been used to investigate the actions of both DHA and ARA as monoacylglycerol (MAG) molecules, and results have been compared with those obtained using the corresponding FFA. Cell assays revealed that ARA- and DHA-MAG exercised dose- and time-dependent antiproliferative actions, with DHA-MAG acting on cancer cells more efficiently than ARA-MAG. Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH) - mass spectrometry massive quantitative proteomics, validated by parallel reaction monitoring and followed by pathway analysis, revealed that DHA-MAG had a massive effect in the proteasome complex, while the ARA-MAG main effect was related to DNA replication. Prostaglandin synthesis also resulted as inhibited by DHA-MAG. Results clearly demonstrated the ability of both ARA- and DHA-MAG to induce cell death in colon cancer cells, which suggests a direct relationship between chemical structure and antitumoral actions.
PXD013834	31819057	Oxidation and alkylation stresses activate ribosome-quality control. 	Chemical damage to mRNA triggers ribosome-based quality control in the cell	Ribosome collision, quality control, ubiquitylation	Oxidation and alkylation of nucleobases are known to disrupt their base-pairing properties within RNA. It is, however, unclear whether organisms have evolved general mechanism(s) to deal with this damage. Here we show that the mRNA-surveillance pathway of no-go decay and the associated ribosome-quality control are activated in response to nucleobase alkylation and oxidation. Our findings reveal that these processes are important for clearing chemically modified mRNA and the resulting aberrant-protein products. In the absence of Xrn1, the level of damaged mRNA significantly increases. Furthermore, deletion of LTN1 results in the accumulation of protein aggregates in the presence of oxidizing and alkylating agents. This accumulation is accompanied by Hel2-dependent regulatory ubiquitylation of ribosomal proteins. Collectively, our data highlight the burden of chemically damaged mRNA on cellular homeostasis and suggest that organisms evolved mechanisms to counter their accumulation.
PXD011162	31819186	Kinetic modelling of quantitative proteome data predicts metabolic reprogramming of liver cancer. 	Hepatomasys                   .	hepatocellular carcinoma, liver cancer, shotgun proteomics	BACKGROUND: Metabolic alterations can serve as targets for diagnosis and cancer therapy. Due to the highly complex regulation of cellular metabolism, definite identification of metabolic pathway alterations remains challenging and requires sophisticated experimentation. METHODS: We applied a comprehensive kinetic model of the central carbon metabolism (CCM) to characterise metabolic reprogramming in murine liver cancer. RESULTS: We show that relative differences of protein abundances of metabolic enzymes obtained by mass spectrometry can be used to assess their maximal velocity values. Model simulations predicted tumour-specific alterations of various components of the CCM, a selected number of which were subsequently verified by in vitro and in vivo experiments. Furthermore, we demonstrate the ability of the kinetic model to identify metabolic pathways whose inhibition results in selective tumour cell killing. CONCLUSIONS: Our systems biology approach establishes that combining cellular experimentation with computer simulations of physiology-based metabolic models enables a comprehensive understanding of deregulated energetics in cancer. We propose that modelling proteomics data from human HCC with our approach will enable an individualised metabolic profiling of tumours and predictions of the efficacy of drug therapies targeting specific metabolic pathways.
PXD012174	31819260	The functional landscape of the human phosphoproteome. 	The human phosphoproteome map based on PRIDE data	PTM, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, machine learning, phosphorylation, post translational modification, public data reuse, reanalysis	Protein phosphorylation is a key post-translational modification regulating protein function in almost all cellular processes. Although tens of thousands of phosphorylation sites have been identified in human cells, approaches to determine the functional importance of each phosphosite are lacking. Here, we manually curated 112 datasets of phospho-enriched proteins, generated from 104 different human cell types or tissues. We re-analyzed the 6,801 proteomics experiments that passed our quality control criteria, creating a reference phosphoproteome containing 119,809 human phosphosites. To prioritize functional sites, we used machine learning to identify 59 features indicative of proteomic, structural, regulatory or evolutionary relevance and integrate them into a single functional score. Our approach identifies regulatory phosphosites across different molecular mechanisms, processes and diseases, and reveals genetic susceptibilities at a genomic scale. Several regulatory phosphosites were experimentally validated, including identifying a role in neuronal differentiation for phosphosites in SMARCC2, a member of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex.
PXD014164	31819999	Composition and processing activity of a semi-recombinant holo U7 snRNP. 	Composition and processing activity of a semi-recombinant holo U7 snRNP	3' end processing, CPSF73, FLASH, Lsm11, Sm proteins, U7 snRNP, histone pre-mRNA	In animal cells, replication-dependent histone pre-mRNAs are cleaved at the 3' end by U7 snRNP consisting of two core components: a ~60-nucleotide U7 snRNA and a ring of seven proteins, with Lsm10 and Lsm11 replacing the spliceosomal SmD1 and SmD2. Lsm11 interacts with FLASH and together they recruit the endonuclease CPSF73 and other polyadenylation factors, forming catalytically active holo U7 snRNP. Here, we assembled core U7 snRNP bound to FLASH from recombinant components and analyzed its appearance by electron microscopy and ability to support histone pre-mRNA processing in the presence of polyadenylation factors from nuclear extracts. We demonstrate that semi-recombinant holo U7 snRNP reconstituted in this manner has the same composition and functional properties as endogenous U7 snRNP, and accurately cleaves histone pre-mRNAs in a reconstituted in vitro processing reaction. We also demonstrate that the U7-specific Sm ring assembles efficiently in vitro on a spliceosomal Sm site but the engineered U7 snRNP is functionally impaired. This approach offers a unique opportunity to study the importance of various regions in the Sm proteins and U7 snRNA in 3' end processing of histone pre-mRNAs.
PXD016020	31822558	The deubiquitinase USP7 stabilizes Maf proteins to promote myeloma cell survival. 	The deubiquitinase USP7 stabilizes Maf proteins to promote myeloma cell survival	Deubiquitinase, Maf, USP7, myeloma	The Maf proteins, including c-Maf, MafA, and MafB, are critical transcription factors in myelomagenesis. Previous studies demonstrated that Maf proteins are processed by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, but the mechanisms remain elusive. This study applied MS to identify MafB ubiquitination-associated proteins and found that the ubiquitin-specific protease USP7 was present in the MafB interactome. Moreover, USP7 also interacted with c-Maf and MafA and blocked their polyubiquitination and degradation. Consistently, knockdown of USP7 resulted in Maf protein degradation along with increased polyubiquitination levels. The action of USP7 thus promoted Maf transcriptional activity as evidenced by luciferase assays and by the up-regulation of the expression of Maf-modulated genes. Furthermore, USP7 was up-regulated in myeloma cells, and it was negatively associated with the survival of myeloma patients. USP7 promoted myeloma cell survival, and when it was inhibited by its specific inhibitor P5091, myeloma cell lines underwent apoptosis. These results therefore demonstrated that USP7 is a deubiquitinase of Maf proteins and promotes MM cell survival in association with Maf stability. Given the significance of USP7 and Maf proteins in myeloma genesis, targeting the USP7/Maf axle is a potential strategy to the precision therapy of MM.
PXD007937	31822592	Metabolic rewiring of the hypertensive kidney. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of the Dahl sensitive rat	Dahl, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis FSGS, hypertension, rat	Hypertension is a persistent epidemic across the developed world that is closely associated with kidney disease. Here, we applied a metabolomic, phosphoproteomic, and proteomic strategy to analyze the effect of hypertensive insults on kidneys. Our data revealed the metabolic aspects of hypertension-induced glomerular sclerosis, including lipid breakdown at early disease stages and activation of anaplerotic pathways to regenerate energy equivalents to counter stress. For example, branched-chain amino acids and proline, required for collagen synthesis, were depleted in glomeruli at early time points. Furthermore, indicators of metabolic stress were reflected by low amounts of ATP and NADH and an increased abundance of oxidized lipids derived from lipid breakdown. These processes were specific to kidney glomeruli where metabolic signaling occurred through mTOR and AMPK signaling. Quantitative phosphoproteomics combined with computational modeling suggested that these processes controlled key molecules in glomeruli and specifically podocytes, including cytoskeletal components and GTP-binding proteins, which would be expected to compete for decreasing amounts of GTP at early time points. As a result, glomeruli showed increased expression of metabolic enzymes of central carbon metabolism, amino acid degradation, and lipid oxidation, findings observed in previously published studies from other disease models and patients with glomerular damage. Overall, multilayered omics provides an overview of hypertensive kidney damage and suggests that metabolic or dietary interventions could prevent and treat glomerular disease and hypertension-induced nephropathy.
PXD014601	31822653	LncRNA MACC1-AS1 sponges multiple miRNAs and RNA-binding protein PTBP1. 	identification of MACC1-AS1 binding proteins	RNA-protein interaction	Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) represents a class of endogenous RNAs that regulate gene expression in eukaryotes. To date, the function and underlying mechanism of the majority of mammalian lncRNAs remain unknown. Here, we report that MACC1-AS1, a cognate antisense lncRNA of the sixth intron of the MACC1 gene, functions as a cell growth modulator and enhances breast tumor progress. RNA pulldown and luciferase assays showed that MACC1-AS1 contained binding sites for multiple miRNAs, including well-known tumor suppressors miR-384 and miR-145-3p that repress the expression of pleiotrophin (PTN) and c-Myc mRNAs. Binding of miR-384 and miR-145-3p miRNAs to MACC1-AS1 alters the cell growth phenotype through increased expression of PTN and c-Myc mRNAs. MACC1-AS1 also competitively interacted with PTBP1, an RNA-binding protein, via a conserved pyrimidine rich motif within this lncRNA. Binding of PTBP1to MACC1-AS1 not only stabilized MACC1-AS1 and enhanced the sponge effect of MACC1-AS1 on miRNAs, but also decreased PTBP1 availability for binding to target mRNAs. Our results define a new dimension into how a lncRNA is able to regulate cell growth by sponging multiple miRNAs and an RNA-binding protein.
PXD009037	31822788	Exploration of the propagation of transpovirons within Mimiviridae reveals a unique example of commensalism in the viral world. 	Proteomic characterization of Zamilon vitis virions produced in various contexts	Giant virus, Mimiviridae, transpoviron, virion proteomics, virophage	Acanthamoeba-infecting Mimiviridae are giant viruses with dsDNA genome up to 1.5 Mb. They build viral factories in the host cytoplasm in which the nuclear-like virus-encoded functions take place. They are themselves the target of infections by 20-kb-dsDNA virophages, replicating in the giant virus factories and can also be found associated with 7-kb-DNA episomes, dubbed transpovirons. Here we isolated a virophage (Zamilon vitis) and two transpovirons respectively associated to B- and C-clade mimiviruses. We found that the virophage could transfer each transpoviron provided the host viruses were devoid of a resident transpoviron (permissive effect). If not, only the resident transpoviron originally isolated from the corresponding virus was replicated and propagated within the virophage progeny (dominance effect). Although B- and C-clade viruses devoid of transpoviron could replicate each transpoviron, they did it with a lower efficiency across clades, suggesting an ongoing process of adaptive co-evolution. We analysed the proteomes of host viruses and virophage particles in search of proteins involved in this adaptation process. This study also highlights a unique example of intricate commensalism in the viral world, where the transpoviron uses the virophage to propagate and where the Zamilon virophage and the transpoviron depend on the giant virus to replicate, without affecting its infectious cycle.
PXD015484	31822915	Mkt1 is required for RNAi-mediated silencing and establishment of heterochromatin in fission yeast. 	Mkt1 is required for RNAi-mediated silencing and establishment of heterochromatin in fission yeast	Heterochromatin, RNA interference, Schizosaccharomyces pombe	Constitutive domains of repressive heterochromatin are maintained within the fission yeast genome through self-reinforcing mechanisms involving histone methylation and small RNAs. Non-coding RNAs generated from heterochromatic regions are processed into small RNAs by the RNA interference pathway, and are subject to silencing through both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms. While the pathways involved in maintenance of the repressive heterochromatin state are reasonably well understood, less is known about the requirements for its establishment. Here, we describe a novel role for the post-transcriptional regulatory factor Mkt1 in establishment of heterochromatin at pericentromeres in fission yeast. Loss of Mkt1 does not affect maintenance of existing heterochromatin, but does affect its recovery following depletion, as well as de novo establishment of heterochromatin on a mini-chromosome. Pathway dissection revealed that Mkt1 is required for RNAi-mediated post-transcriptional silencing, downstream of small RNA production. Mkt1 physically associates with pericentromeric transcripts, and is additionally required for maintenance of silencing and heterochromatin at centromeres when transcriptional silencing is impaired. Our findings provide new insight into the mechanism of RNAi-mediated post-transcriptional silencing in fission yeast, and unveil an important role for post-transcriptional silencing in establishment of heterochromatin that is dispensable when full transcriptional silencing is imposed.
PXD014871	31824947	Proteomic Changes in Human Sperm During Sequential in vitro Capacitation and Acrosome Reaction. 	Proteomic changes in human sperm during sequential in vitro capacitation and acrosome reaction.	TMT labeling, acrosome reaction, capacitation, sperm, spermatozoa	The male gamete is not completely mature after ejaculation and requires further events in the female genital tract to acquire fertilizing ability, including the processes of capacitation and acrosome reaction. In order to shed light on protein changes experienced by the sperm cell in preparation for fertilization, a comprehensive quantitative proteomic profiling based on isotopic peptide labeling and liquid chromatography followed by tandem mass spectrometry was performed on spermatozoa from three donors of proven fertility under three sequential conditions: purification with density gradient centrifugation, incubation with capacitation medium, and induction of acrosome reaction by exposure to the calcium ionophore A23187. After applying strict selection criteria for peptide quantification and for statistical analyses, 36 proteins with significant changes in their relative abundance within sperm protein extracts were detected. Moreover, the presence of peptide residues potentially harboring sites for post-translational modification was revealed, suggesting that protein modification may be an important mechanism in sperm maturation. In this regard, increased levels of proteins mainly involved in motility and signaling, both regulated by protein modifiers, were detected in sperm lysates following incubation with capacitation medium. In contrast, less abundant proteins in acrosome-reacted cell lysates did not contain potentially modifiable residues, suggesting the possibility that all those proteins might be relocated or released during the process. Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed a subset of proteins potentially involved in sperm maturation, including the proteins Erlin-2 (ERLIN2), Gamma-glutamyl hydrolase (GGH) and Transmembrane emp24 domain-containing protein 10 (TMED10). These results contribute to the current knowledge of the molecular basis of human fertilization. It should now be possible to further validate the potential role of the detected altered proteins as modulators of male infertility.
PXD016128	31825135	High CD206 levels in Hodgkin lymphoma-educated macrophages are linked to matrix-remodeling and lymphoma dissemination. 	Hodgkin lymphoma-educated macrophages	CD206, SWATH, lymphoma, macrophages	Macrophages (Mphi) are abundantly present in the tumor microenvironment and may predict outcome in solid tumors and defined lymphoma subtypes. Mphi heterogeneity, the mechanisms of their recruitment, and their differentiation into lymphoma-promoting, alternatively activated M2-like phenotypes are still not fully understood. Therefore, further functional studies are required to understand biological mechanisms associated with human tumor-associated Mphi (TAM). Here, we show that the global mRNA expression and protein abundance of human Mphi differentiated in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL)-conditioned medium (CM) differ from those of Mphi educated by conditioned media from diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells or, classically, by macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). Conditioned media from HL cells support TAM differentiation through upregulation of surface antigens such as CD40, CD163, CD206, and PD-L1. In particular, RNA and cell surface protein expression of mannose receptor 1 (MRC1)/CD206 significantly exceed the levels induced by classical M-CSF stimulation in M2-like Mphi; this is regulated by interleukin 13 to a large extent. Functionally, high CD206 enhances mannose-dependent endocytosis and uptake of type I collagen. Together with high matrix metalloprotease9 secretion, HL-TAMs appear to be active modulators of the tumor matrix. Preclinical in ovo models show that co-cultures of HL cells with monocytes or Mphi support dissemination of lymphoma cells via lymphatic vessels, while tumor size and vessel destruction are decreased in comparison with lymphoma-only tumors. Immunohistology of human HL tissues reveals a fraction of cases feature large numbers of CD206-positive cells, with high MRC1 expression being characteristic of HL-stage IV. In summary, the lymphoma-TAM interaction contributes to matrix-remodeling and lymphoma cell dissemination.
PXD012525	31825165	Schistosomal extracellular vesicle-enclosed miRNAs modulate host T helper cell differentiation. 	Schistosomes- exosomal miRNAs: modulators of T helper (CD+) cell differentiation	Schistosomes, T helper, miRNA	During the chronic stage of Schistosoma infection, the female lays fertile eggs, triggering a strong anti-parasitic type 2 helper T-cell (Th2) immune response. It is unclear how this Th2 response gradually declines even though the worms live for years and continue to produce eggs. Here, we show that Schistosoma mansoni downregulates Th2 differentiation in an antigen-presenting cell-independent manner, by modulating the Th2-specific transcriptional program. Adult schistosomes secrete miRNA-harboring extracellular vesicles that are internalized by Th cells in vitro. Schistosomal miRNAs are found also in T helper cells isolated from Peyer's patches and mesenteric lymph nodes of infected mice. In T helper cells, the schistosomal miR-10 targets MAP3K7 and consequently downmodulates NF-kappaB activity, a critical transcription factor for Th2 differentiation and function. Our results explain, at least partially, how schistosomes tune down the Th2 response, and provide further insight into the reciprocal geographic distribution between high prevalence of parasitic infections and immune disorders such as allergy. Furthermore, this worm-host crosstalk mechanism can be harnessed to develop diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for human schistosomiasis and Th2-associated diseases.
PXD015984	31825581	Biochemical and Proteomic Studies of Human Pyridoxal 5'-Phosphate-Binding Protein (PLPBP). 	Biochemical and proteomic studies on pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-binding protein (PLPBP)	PLPBP, PROSC, Pyridoxal	The pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-binding protein (PLPBP) is an evolutionarily conserved protein linked to pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-binding. Although mutations in PLPBP were shown to cause vitamin B6-dependent epilepsy, its cellular role and function remain elusive. We here report a detailed biochemical investigation of human PLPBP and its epilepsy-causing mutants by evaluating stability, cofactor binding, and oligomerization. In this context, chemical cross-linking combined with mass spectrometry unraveled an unexpected dimeric assembly of PLPBP. Furthermore, the interaction network of PLPBP was elucidated by chemical cross-linking paired with co-immunoprecipitation. A mass spectrometric analysis in a PLPBP knockout cell line resulted in distinct proteomic changes compared to wild type cells, including upregulation of several cytoskeleton- and cell division-associated proteins. Finally, transfection experiments with vitamin B6-dependent epilepsy-causing PLPBP variants indicate a potential role of PLPBP in cell division as well as proper muscle function. Taken together, our studies on the structure and cellular role of human PLPBP enable a better understanding of the physiological and pathological mechanism of this important protein.
PXD014016	31825809	Bioenergetic consequences from xenotopic expression of a tunicate AOX in mouse mitochondria: Switch from RET and ROS to FET. 	Complexome profiling of heart mitochondria from mouse expressing alternative oxidase	alternative oxidase, complexome profiling, mitochondria	Electron transfer from all respiratory chain dehydrogenases of the electron transport chain (ETC) converges at the level of the quinone (Q) pool. The Q redox state is thus a function of electron input (reduction) and output (oxidation) and closely reflects the mitochondrial respiratory state. Disruption of electron flux at the level of the cytochrome bc1 complex (cIII) or cytochrome c oxidase (cIV) shifts the Q redox poise to a more reduced state which is generally sensed as respiratory stress. To cope with respiratory stress, many species, but not insects and vertebrates, express alternative oxidase (AOX) which acts as an electron sink for reduced Q and by-passes cIII and cIV. Here, we used Ciona intestinalis AOX xenotopically expressed in mouse mitochondria to study how respiratory states impact the Q poise and how AOX may be used to restore respiration. Particularly interesting is our finding that electron input through succinate dehydrogenase (cII), but not NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (cI), reduces the Q pool almost entirely (>90%) irrespective of the respiratory state. AOX enhances the forward electron transport (FET) from cII thereby decreasing reverse electron transport (RET) and ROS specifically when non-phosphorylating. AOX is not engaged with cI substrates, however, unless a respiratory inhibitor is added. This sheds new light on Q poise signaling, the biological role of cII which enigmatically is the only ETC complex absent from respiratory supercomplexes but yet participates in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Finally, we delineate potential risks and benefits arising from therapeutic AOX transfer.
PXD015994	31825833	DeSUMOylase SENP7-Mediated Epithelial Signaling Triggers Intestinal Inflammation via Expansion of Gamma-Delta T Cells. 	DeSUMOylase SENP7 mediated epithelial signaling triggers intestinal inflammation via expansion of Gamma-delta T cell	PTMs, SUMOylation, deSUMOylases, inflammation	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a complex autoimmune disorder recently shown to be associated with SUMOylation, a post-translational modification mechanism. Here, we have identified a link between epithelial deSUMOylases and inflammation in IBD. DeSUMOylase SENP7 was seen to be upregulated specifically in intestinal epithelial cells in both human IBD and a mouse model. In steady state, but not IBD, SENP7 expression was negatively regulated by a direct interaction and ubiquitination by SIAH2. Upregulated SENP7 in inflamed tissue displayed a distinct interactome. These changes led to an expansion of localized proinflammatory gammadelta T cells. Furthermore, in vivo knockdown of SENP7 or depletion of gammadelta T cells abrogated dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced gut inflammation. Strong statistical correlations between upregulated SENP7 and high clinical disease indices were observed in IBD patients. Overall, our data reveal that epithelial SENP7 is necessary and sufficient for controlling gut inflammation, thus highlighting its importance as a potential drug target.
PXD016008	31825843	Kindlin-2 Inhibits the Hippo Signaling Pathway by Promoting Degradation of MOB1. 	Mass spectrometry proteomics detecting interaction proteins of Kindlin-2	Human renal tubular epithelial cell(HKC)	The Hippo signaling pathway plays a key role in development and cancer progression. However, molecules that intrinsically inhibit this pathway are less well known. Here, we report that the focal adhesion molecule Kindlin-2 inhibits Hippo signaling by interacting with and degrading MOB1 and promoting the interaction between MOB1 and the E3 ligase praja2. Kindlin-2 thus inhibits the phosphorylation of LATS1 and YAP and promotes YAP translocation into the nucleus, where it activates downstream Hippo target gene transcription. Kindlin-2 depletion activates Hippo/YAP signaling and alleviates renal fibrosis in Kindlin-2 knockout mice with unilateral ureteral occlusion (UUO). Moreover, Kindlin-2 levels are negatively correlated with MOB1 and phosphorylated (p) YAP in samples from patients with renal fibrosis. Altogether, these results demonstrate that Kindlin-2 inhibits Hippo signaling through degradation of MOB1. A specific long-lasting siRNA against Kindlin-2 effectively alleviated UUO-induced renal fibrosis and could be a potential therapy for renal fibrosis.
PXD013426	31825849	Splice-Junction-Based Mapping of Alternative Isoforms in the Human Proteome. 	Human induced pluripotent stem cell differentiation to cardiomyocytes	cardiomyocytes, iPSC, iPSC-CM	The protein-level translational status and function of many alternative splicing events remain poorly understood. We use an RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-guided proteomics method to identify protein alternative splicing isoforms in the human proteome by constructing tissue-specific protein databases that prioritize transcript splice junction pairs with high translational potential. Using the custom databases to reanalyze ~80 million mass spectra in public proteomics datasets, we identify more than 1,500 noncanonical protein isoforms across 12 human tissues, including ~400 sequences undocumented on TrEMBL and RefSeq databases. We apply the method to original quantitative mass spectrometry experiments and observe widespread isoform regulation during human induced pluripotent stem cell cardiomyocyte differentiation. On a proteome scale, alternative isoform regions overlap frequently with disordered sequences and post-translational modification sites, suggesting that alternative splicing may regulate protein function through modulating intrinsically disordered regions. The described approach may help elucidate functional consequences of alternative splicing and expand the scope of proteomics investigations in various systems.
PXD015091	31826923	Identification of Low-Abundance Lipid Droplet Proteins in Seeds and Seedlings. 	Calculation of enrichment factors identifies low abundant lipid droplet-associated proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana seeds and seedlings	Lipid droplets, seed germination, seedlings, seeds, siliques	The developmental program of seed formation, germination, and early seedling growth requires not only tight regulation of cell division and metabolism, but also concerted control of the structure and function of organelles, which relies on specific changes in their protein composition. Of particular interest is the switch from heterotrophic to photoautotrophic seedling growth, for which cytoplasmic lipid droplets (LDs) play a critical role as depots for energy-rich storage lipids. Here, we present the results of a bottom-up proteomics study analyzing the total protein fractions and LD-enriched fractions in eight different developmental phases during silique (seed) development, seed germination, and seedling establishment in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The quantitative analysis of the LD proteome using LD-enrichment factors led to the identification of six previously unidentified and comparably low-abundance LD proteins, each of which was confirmed by intracellular localization studies with fluorescent protein fusions. In addition to these advances in LD protein discovery and the potential insights provided to as yet unexplored aspects in plant LD functions, our data set allowed for a comparative analysis of the LD protein composition throughout the various developmental phases examined. Among the most notable of the alterations in the LD proteome were those during seedling establishment, indicating a switch in the physiological function(s) of LDs after greening of the cotyledons. This work highlights LDs as dynamic organelles with functions beyond lipid storage.
PXD007785	31827134	MAP2K1 is a potential therapeutic target in erlotinib resistant head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. 	Genetic aberrations in MAP kinase pathway play an important role in erlotinib resistance in head and neck cancer	EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance, head and neck cancer, quantitative phosphoproteomics, signaling pathways	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) targeted therapies have shown limited efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) patients despite its overexpression. Identifying molecular mechanisms associated with acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs such as erlotinib remains an unmet need and a therapeutic challenge. In this study, we employed an integrated multi-omics approach to delineate mechanisms associated with acquired resistance to erlotinib by carrying out whole exome sequencing, quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling. We observed amplification of several genes including AXL kinase and transcription factor YAP1 resulting in protein overexpression. We also observed expression of constitutively active mutant MAP2K1 (p.K57E) in erlotinib resistant SCC-R cells. An integrated analysis of genomic, proteomic and phosphoproteomic data revealed alterations in MAPK pathway and its downstream targets in SCC-R cells. We demonstrate that erlotinib-resistant cells are sensitive to MAPK pathway inhibition. This study revealed multiple genetic, proteomic and phosphoproteomic alterations associated with erlotinib resistant SCC-R cells. Our data indicates that therapeutic targeting of MAPK pathway is an effective strategy for treating erlotinib-resistant HNSCC tumors.
PXD016021	31831267	Degradation of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 with an EED-Targeted Bivalent Chemical Degrader. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis to Determine Specificity of PRC2 Degrader	TMT, chemoproteomics	Protein degradation via the use of bivalent chemical degraders provides an alternative strategy to block protein function and assess the biological roles of putative drug targets. This approach capitalizes on the advantages of small-molecule inhibitors while moving beyond the restrictions of traditional pharmacology. Here, we report a chemical degrader (UNC6852) that targets polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2). UNC6852 contains an EED226-derived ligand and a ligand for VHL which bind to the WD40 aromatic cage of EED and CRL2(VHL), respectively, to induce proteasomal degradation of PRC2 components, EED, EZH2, and SUZ12. Degradation of PRC2 with UNC6852 blocks the histone methyltransferase activity of EZH2, decreasing H3K27me3 levels in HeLa cells and diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells containing EZH2 gain-of-function mutations. UNC6852 degrades both wild-type and mutant EZH2, and additionally displays anti-proliferative effects in this cancer model system.
PXD011001	31831592	Phosphoproteomic profiling reveals a defined genetic program for osteoblastic lineage commitment of human bone marrow-derived stromal stem cells. 	Phosphoproteomic profiling reveals a defined genetic program for osteoblastic lineage commitment of human bone marrow derived stromal stem cells	MSCs, Osteoblast, SILAC, differentiation, phosphorylation	Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) differentiate into osteoblasts upon stimulation by signals present in their niche. Because the global signaling cascades involved in the early phases of MSCs osteoblast (OB) differentiation are not well-defined, we used quantitative mass spectrometry to delineate changes in human MSCs proteome and phosphoproteome during the first 24 h of their OB lineage commitment. The temporal profiles of 6252 proteins and 15,059 phosphorylation sites suggested at least two distinct signaling waves: one peaking within 30 to 60 min after stimulation and a second upsurge after 24 h. In addition to providing a comprehensive view of the proteome and phosphoproteome dynamics during early MSCs differentiation, our analyses identified a key role of serine/threonine protein kinase D1 (PRKD1) in OB commitment. At the onset of OB differentiation, PRKD1 initiates activation of the pro-osteogenic transcription factor RUNX2 by triggering phosphorylation and nuclear exclusion of the histone deacetylase HDAC7.
PXD016240	31831624	Arabidopsis protein l-ISOASPARTYL METHYLTRANSFERASE repairs isoaspartyl damage to antioxidant enzymes and increases heat and oxidative stress tolerance. 	Investigation of isoAsp accumulation to antioxidative enzymes during thermal stress and their repair by PROTEIN L-ISOASPARTYL METHYLTRANSFERASE (PIMT).	Antioxidative enzyme, PIMT, Protein repair., isoAsp	Stressful environments accelerate the formation of isoaspartyl (isoAsp) residues in proteins, which detrimentally affect protein structure and function. The enzyme PROTEIN l-ISOASPARTYL METHYLTRANSFERASE (PIMT) repairs other proteins by reverting deleterious isoAsp residues to functional aspartyl residues. PIMT function previously has been elucidated in seeds, but its role in plant survival under stress conditions remains undefined. Herein, we used molecular, biochemical, and genetic approaches, including protein overexpression and knockdown experiments, in Arabidopsis to investigate the role of PIMTs in plant growth and survival during heat and oxidative stresses. We demonstrate that these stresses increase isoAsp accumulation in plant proteins, that PIMT activity is essential for restricting isoAsp accumulation, and that both PIMT1 and PIMT2 play an important role in this restriction and Arabidopsis growth and survival. Moreover, we show that PIMT improves stress tolerance by facilitating efficient reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging by protecting the functionality of antioxidant enzymes from isoAsp-mediated damage during stress. Specifically, biochemical and MS/MS analyses revealed that antioxidant enzymes acquire deleterious isoAsp residues during stress, which adversely affect their catalytic activities, and that PIMT repairs the isoAsp residues and thereby restores antioxidant enzyme function. Collectively, our results suggest that the PIMT-mediated protein repair system is an integral part of the stress-tolerance mechanism in plants, in which PIMTs protect antioxidant enzymes that maintain proper ROS homeostasis against isoAsp-mediated damage in stressful environments.
PXD014469	31835171	Activation of Hypoxia-Inducible Factor Signaling Modulates the RNA Protein Interactome in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	C. elegans wild type compared to vhl-1(ok161) RBPome and Proteome	C. elegans, HIF, Hypoxia, RBP, RNA-binding protein, hif-1, vhl-1	The cellular response to hypoxia is crucial to organismal survival, and hypoxia-inducible factors (HIF) are the key mediators of this response. HIF-signaling is central to many human diseases and mediates longevity in the nematode. Despite the rapidly increasing knowledge on RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), little is known about their contribution to hypoxia-induced cellular adaptation. We used RNA interactome capture (RIC) in wild-type Caenorhabditis elegans and vhl-1 loss-of-function mutants to fill this gap. This approach identifies more than 1,300 nematode RBPs, 270 of which can be considered novel RBPs. Interestingly, loss of vhl-1 modulates the RBPome. This difference is not primarily explained by protein abundance suggesting differential RNA-binding. Taken together, our study provides a global view on the nematode RBPome and proteome as well as their modulation by HIF-signaling. The resulting RBP atlas is also provided as an interactive online data mining tool (http://shiny.cecad.uni-koeln.de:3838/celegans_rbpome).
PXD013539	31836637	Multi-omic Characterization of the Mode of Action of a Potent New Antimalarial Compound, JPC-3210, Against Plasmodium falciparum. 	Multi-omics analysis demonstrates unique mode of action of a potent new antimalarial compound, JPC-3210, against Plasmodium falciparum	2-aminomethylphenol, antimalarial drug discovery, mechanism of action, metabolomics	The increasing incidence of antimalarial drug resistance to the first-line artemisinin combination therapies underpins an urgent need for new antimalarial drugs, ideally with a novel mode of action. The recently developed 2-aminomethylphenol, JPC-3210, (MMV 892646) is an erythrocytic schizonticide with potent in vitro antimalarial activity against multidrug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum lines, low cytotoxicity, potent in vivo efficacy against murine malaria, and favorable preclinical pharmacokinetics including a lengthy plasma elimination half-life. To investigate the impact of JPC-3210 on biochemical pathways within P. falciparum-infected red blood cells, we have applied a "multi-omics" workflow based on high resolution orbitrap mass spectrometry combined with biochemical approaches. Metabolomics, peptidomics and hemoglobin fractionation analyses revealed a perturbation in hemoglobin metabolism following JPC-3210 exposure. The metabolomics data demonstrated a specific depletion of short hemoglobin-derived peptides, peptidomics analysis revealed a depletion of longer hemoglobin-derived peptides, and the hemoglobin fractionation assay demonstrated decreases in hemoglobin, heme and hemozoin levels. To further elucidate the mechanism responsible for inhibition of hemoglobin metabolism, we used in vitro beta-hematin polymerization assays and showed JPC-3210 to be an intermediate inhibitor of beta-hematin polymerization, about 10-fold less potent then the quinoline antimalarials, such as chloroquine and mefloquine. Further, quantitative proteomics analysis showed that JPC-3210 treatment results in a distinct proteomic signature compared with other known antimalarials. While JPC-3210 clustered closely with mefloquine in the metabolomics and proteomics analyses, a key differentiating signature for JPC-3210 was the significant enrichment of parasite proteins involved in regulation of translation. These studies revealed that the mode of action for JPC-3210 involves inhibition of the hemoglobin digestion pathway and elevation of regulators of protein translation. Importantly, JPC-3210 demonstrated rapid parasite killing kinetics compared with other quinolones, suggesting that JPC-3210 warrants further investigation as a potentially long acting partner drug for malaria treatment.
PXD013928	31839598	MaXLinker: Proteome-wide Cross-link Identifications with High Specificity and Sensitivity. 	Proteome-wide Cross-linking mass spectrometry		Protein-protein interactions play a vital role in nearly all cellular functions. Hence, understanding their interaction patterns and three-dimensional structural conformations can provide crucial insights about various biological processes and underlying molecular mechanisms for many disease phenotypes. Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has the unique capability to detect protein-protein interactions at a large scale along with spatial constraints between interaction partners. The inception of MS-cleavable cross-linkers enabled the MS2-MS3 XL-MS acquisition strategy that provides cross-link information from both MS2 and MS3 level. However, the current cross-link search algorithm available for MS2-MS3 strategy follows a "MS2-centric" approach and suffers from a high rate of mis-identified cross-links. We demonstrate the problem using two new quality assessment metrics ["fraction of mis-identifications" (FMI) and "fraction of interprotein cross-links from known interactions" (FKI)]. We then address this problem, by designing a novel "MS3-centric" approach for cross-link identification and implementing it as a search engine named MaXLinker. MaXLinker outperforms the currently popular search engine with a lower mis-identification rate, and higher sensitivity and specificity. Moreover, we performed human proteome-wide cross-linking mass spectrometry using K562 cells. Employing MaXLinker, we identified a comprehensive set of 9319 unique cross-links at 1% false discovery rate, comprising 8051 intraprotein and 1268 interprotein cross-links. Finally, we experimentally validated the quality of a large number of novel interactions identified in our study, providing a conclusive evidence for MaXLinker's robust performance.
PXD015220	31840410	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics versus Antibody-Based Assays to Measure Neutrophil-Derived Enzymes in Saliva. 	Label-free quantitative proteomics versus antibody-based assays to measure neutrophil derived enzymes in saliva	Huamn experimental gingivitis, saliva	PURPOSE: This study aims to validate label-free quantitative proteomics (LFQ) against antibody-based methods for quantifying established periodontal disease biomarkers in saliva. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In an experimental gingivitis model, healthy volunteers (n = 10) provide saliva at baseline (d0), during the induction (d7, d14, d21) and resolution (d35) of gingival inflammation (total n = 50). Biomarker levels are analyzed by LFQ and time-resolved immunofluorometric assay (IFMA) or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Molecular matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-8 forms are assessed by Western blot (WB) analysis. RESULTS: LFQ detects significantly (p < 0.05) elevated MMP-8 (d21vsd7, d35vsd7) and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMP)-1 (d35vsd7). Latent MMP-8 (70-80 kDa) is present (d0-d35), but not active MMP-8 (50-60 kDa). LFQ and immunoassay data significantly correlate for MMP-8 (r = 0.36), myeloperoxidase (r = 0.39), polymorphonuclear leukocyte elastase (r = 0.33), and TIMP-1 (r = -0.24). CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: LFQ can quantify enzyme levels in saliva, however lacks the ability to measure enzymatic activity. WB analysis reveals that MMP-8 may not be activated during induction of gingival inflammation. Significant but weak correlations between IFMA or ELISA and LFQ suggest a limited capacity of available antibodies to reliably quantify salivary biomarkers for periodontal diseases. Novel "anti-peptide" antibodies designed by newer targeted mass spectrometry-based approaches can help to overcome these drawbacks.
PXD016298	31841667	Enrichment and identification of small proteins in a simplified human gut microbiome. 	Small proteins in a simplified human gut microbiome	SIHUMIx, metaproteomics, small proteins	Small proteins (sProteins) with a size of 100 amino acids and less are involved in major biological processes and play an important role in different bacteria. Despite the increasing interest in them, the data on sProteins in bacterial communities, like the human gut microbiome is sparse. In this study, we are using the extended simplified human intestinal microbiota (SIHUMIx) as model system of the human gut microbiome to detect sProteins and to compare different sProtein enrichment methods. We observed that with our tested methods, the C8-cartridge enrichment resulted in the highest number of detected sProteins (n = 295) with high reproducibility among replication analysis. However, in order to further increase the total number of sProteins, the combination of C8 cartridge enrichment with GelFree enrichment is favored because the latter complemented n = 48 more sProteins compared to the C8 cartridge approach resulting in n = 343 sProteins. Among all detected sProteins we were able to identify 79 so far uncharacterized sProteins, with no described protein evidence in the current released database. In total, 34 of those uncharacterized sProteins are localized in gene clusters conserved between different bacteria species allowing functional predictions. This study improves the assessment of sProtein detection and enables their functional characterization in future experiments. SIGNIFICANCE: Small proteins have great potential and are therefore obtaining high interest. Especially in human microbiota, many undiscovered and uncharacterized small proteins promote the understanding of complex host-microbiome and bacteria-bacteria interactions. However, a major challenge lies in the detection of small proteins using bottom-up proteomics. Our study leads to an improved identification of small proteins in bacterial communities. It further describes properties and potential functions of identified, previously uncharacterized small proteins. Altogether it improves the assessment of sProtein detection and enables their functional characterization in future experiments.
PXD016643	31843888	Reversible phosphorylation of Rpn1 regulates 26S proteasome assembly and function. 	Reversible phosphorylation of Rpn1 regulates 26S proteasome assembly and function	PIM, UBLCP1, genetic code expansion, phosphorylation, proteasome	The fundamental importance of the 26S proteasome in health and disease suggests that its function must be finely controlled, and yet our knowledge about proteasome regulation remains limited. Posttranslational modifications, especially phosphorylation, of proteasome subunits have been shown to impact proteasome function through different mechanisms, although the vast majority of proteasome phosphorylation events have not been studied. Here, we have characterized 1 of the most frequently detected proteasome phosphosites, namely Ser361 of Rpn1, a base subunit of the 19S regulatory particle. Using a variety of approaches including CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing and quantitative mass spectrometry, we found that loss of Rpn1-S361 phosphorylation reduces proteasome activity, impairs cell proliferation, and causes oxidative stress as well as mitochondrial dysfunction. A screen of the human kinome identified several kinases including PIM1/2/3 that catalyze S361 phosphorylation, while its level is reversibly controlled by the proteasome-resident phosphatase, UBLCP1. Mechanistically, Rpn1-S361 phosphorylation is required for proper assembly of the 26S proteasome, and we have utilized a genetic code expansion system to directly demonstrate that S361-phosphorylated Rpn1 more readily forms a precursor complex with Rpt2, 1 of the first steps of 19S base assembly. These findings have revealed a prevalent and biologically important mechanism governing proteasome formation and function.
PXD013627	31844046	Classification of mouse B cell types using surfaceome proteotype maps. 	De novo Classification of Mouse B Cell Types using Surfaceome Proteotype Maps	B-cell development, CSC, DDA, DIA, Flow Cytometry, HRM, LC-MS, affinity purification, autoCSC, cell surface capture, cell surface proteome, classification, mouse model, proteotype, surfaceome	System-wide quantification of the cell surface proteotype and identification of extracellular glycosylation sites is challenging when samples are limited. Here, we miniaturize and automate the previously described Cell Surface Capture (CSC) technology, increasing sensitivity, reproducibility and throughput. We use this technology, which we call autoCSC, to create population-specific surfaceome maps of developing mouse B cells and use targeted flow cytometry to uncover developmental cell subpopulations.
PXD013134	31844049	ProTargetMiner as a proteome signature library of anticancer molecules for functional discovery. 	ProTargetMiner: A proteome library of anticancer molecules for functional discovery	MCF-7, RKO, cancer, chemotherapeutic, compound, database, drug, expression, resource	Deconvolution of targets and action mechanisms of anticancer compounds is fundamental in drug development. Here, we report on ProTargetMiner as a publicly available expandable proteome signature library of anticancer molecules in cancer cell lines. Based on 287 A549 adenocarcinoma proteomes affected by 56 compounds, the main dataset contains 7,328 proteins and 1,307,859 refined protein-drug pairs. These proteomic signatures cluster by compound targets and action mechanisms. The targets and mechanistic proteins are deconvoluted by partial least square modeling, provided through the website http://protargetminer.genexplain.com. For 9 molecules representing the most diverse mechanisms and the common cancer cell lines MCF-7, RKO and A549, deep proteome datasets are obtained. Combining data from the three cell lines highlights common drug targets and cell-specific differences. The database can be easily extended and merged with new compound signatures. ProTargetMiner serves as a chemical proteomics resource for the cancer research community, and can become a valuable tool in drug discovery.
PXD012946	31844194	Repurposing human kinase inhibitors to create an antibiotic active against drug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, persisters and biofilms. 	Repurposing human kinase inhibitors to create an antibiotic active against drug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus	Orbitrap Fusion, Q Exactive Plus, Staphylococcus aureus subsp. aureus NCTC 8325, affinity-based protein profiling (AfBPP), chemical proteomics, full proteome, secretome, surfaceome	New drugs are desperately needed to combat methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections. Here, we report screening commercial kinase inhibitors for antibacterial activity and found the anticancer drug sorafenib as major hit that effectively kills MRSA strains. Varying the key structural features led to the identification of a potent analogue, PK150, that showed antibacterial activity against several pathogenic strains at submicromolar concentrations. Furthermore, this antibiotic eliminated challenging persisters as well as established biofilms. PK150 holds promising therapeutic potential as it did not induce in vitro resistance, and shows oral bioavailability and in vivo efficacy. Analysis of the mode of action using chemical proteomics revealed several targets, which included interference with menaquinone biosynthesis by inhibiting demethylmenaquinone methyltransferase and the stimulation of protein secretion by altering the activity of signal peptidase IB. Reduced endogenous menaquinone levels along with enhanced levels of extracellular proteins of PK150-treated bacteria support this target hypothesis. The associated antibiotic effects, especially the lack of resistance development, probably stem from the compound's polypharmacology.
PXD014663	31846459	The salivary gland proteome of root-galling grape phylloxera (Daktulosphaira vitifoliae Fitch) feeding on Vitis spp. 	The salivary gland proteome of root-galling grape phylloxera (Daktulosphaira vitifoliae Fitch) feeding on Vitis spp.	Daktulosphaira vitifoliae, effectors, phylloxera, salivary gland	The successful parasitisation of a plant by a phytophagous insect is dependent on the delivery of effector molecules into the host. Sedentary gall forming insects, such as grape phylloxera (Daktulosphaira vitifoliae Fitch, Phylloxeridae), secrete multiple effectors into host plant tissues that alter or modulate the cellular and molecular environment to the benefit of the insect. The identification and characterisation of effector proteins will provide insight into the host-phylloxera interaction specifically the gall-induction processes and potential mechanisms of plant resistance. Using proteomic mass spectrometry and in-silico secretory prediction, 420 putative effectors were determined from the salivary glands or the root-feeding D. vitifoliae larvae reared on Teleki 5C (V. berlandieri x V. riparia). Among them, 170 conserved effectors were shared between D. vitifoliae and fourteen phytophagous insect species. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of five conserved effector candidates (protein disulfide-isomerase, peroxidoredoxin, peroxidase and a carboxypeptidase) revealed that their gene expression decreased, when larvae were starved for 24 h, supporting their assignment as effector molecules. The D. vitifoliae effectors identified here represent a functionally diverse group, comprising both conserved and unique proteins that provide new insight into the D. vitifoliae-Vitis spp. interaction and the potential mechanisms by which D. vitifoliae establishes the feeding site, suppresses plant defences and modulates nutrient uptake.
PXD013965	31846630	Global ubiquitome analysis of substantia nigra in doubly-mutant human alpha-synuclein transgenic mice. 	Quantitative proteomic atlas of phosphorylation and ubiquitination reveals Epn2-mediated endocytosis dysfunction in alpha-synuclein transgenic mice	Parkinson's disease, Phosphorylation, endocytosis, quantitative proteomics, ubiquitination	Progression through neuronal loss of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) with Parkinson's disease depends on various protein post-translational modifications mainly comprising ubiquitination. Although many ubiquitination sites have been identified through site-specific methods, systematic quantitative proteomic analysis of pre-symptomatic Parkinson's disease remains unexplored. Using quantitative proteomics, we have globally profiled ubiquitination in SNpc tissue of a Parkinson's disease transgenic mouse model (A30P*A53 T alpha-synuclein, hm(2)alpha-SYN-39 mouse strain) at pre-symptomatic stage; Our datasets of 3971 ubiquitination sites in 1595 proteins provide valuable insight into pre-symptomatic Parkinson's disease. Subsequent bioinformatics analysis, including gene ontology analysis, KEGG pathway annotation, functional cluster analysis, and motif analysis were performed to annotate quantifiable targets of ubiquitination sites. Therefore, this elucidation of the dysregulation of ubiquitination has implications for understanding the pathophysiological mechanism of dopaminergic neuron degeneration and for developing novel therapeutics for Parkinson's disease.
PXD014760	31846763	LC-MS/MS based comparative proteomics of floral nectars reveal different mechanisms involved in floral defense of Nicotiana spp., Petunia hybrida and Datura stramonium. 	LC-MS/MS based comparative proteomics of floral nectars reveal different mechanisms involved in floral defense of Nicotiana spp. P. hybrida and D. stramonuim	Floral defense, Nectar, Nectar Redox Cycle, Nicotiana	Tobacco floral nectar (FN) is a biological fluid produced by nectaries composed of sugars, amino acids and proteins called nectarins, involved in the floral defense. FN provides an ideal source of nutrients for microorganisms. Understanding the role of nectar proteins is essential to predict impacts in microbial growth, composition and plants-pollinators interactions. Using LC-MS/MS-based comparative proteomic analysis we identified 22 proteins from P. hybrida, 35 proteins from D. stramonium, and 144 proteins from 23 species of Nicotiana. The data are available at ProteomeXchance (PXD014760). GO analysis and secretory signal prediction demonstrated that defense/stress was the largest group of proteins in the genus Nicotiana. The Nicotiana spp. proteome consisted of 105 exclusive proteins such as lipid transfer proteins (LTPs), Nectar Redox Cycle proteins, proteases inhibitors, and PR-proteins. Analysis by taxonomic sections demonstrated that LTPs were most abundant in Undulatae and Noctiflora, while nectarins were more abundant in Rusticae, Suaveolens, Polydicliae, and Alata sections. Peroxidases (Pox) and chitinases (Chit) were exclusive to P. hybrida, while D. stramonium had only seven unique proteins. Biochemical analysis confirmed these differences. These findings support the hypothesis that, although conserved, there is differential abundance of proteins related to defense/stress which may impact the mechanisms of floral defense. SIGNIFICANCE: This study represents a comparative proteomic analysis of floral nectars of the Nicotiana spp. with two correlated Solanaceous species. Significant differences were identified between the proteome of taxonomic sections providing relevant insights into the group of proteins related to defense/stress associated with Nectar Redox Cycle, antimicrobial proteins and signaling pathways. The activity of FNs proteins is suggested impact the microbial growth. The knowledge about these proteomes provides significant insights into the diversity of proteins secreted in the nectars and the array of mechanisms used by Nicotiana spp. in its floral defense.
PXD016779	31846764	Global characterization of proteome and lysine methylome features in EZH2 wild-type and mutant lymphoma cell lines. 	Lysine methylome features in EZH2 wild-type and mutant lymphoma cell line	EZH2, Lysine methylation, diffuse large B cell lymphoma	Lysine methylation is a widespread protein post-translational modification showing essentialities in versatile cellular process. EZH2, a methyltransferase specifically trimethylates the lysine 27 of histone H3 and its aberrance in several cancers promotes the development of its inhibitors against hematological tumors. In this study, we presented a deep exploration of lysine mono-, di- and trimethylomes in EZH2 wild-type and Y641 mutant lymphoma cell lines. Our results showed that several substrates were modified in different methylation levels. Moreover, these methylated lysine residues could also undergo other types of PTMs. Combined with the differences proved in protein expression, lysine acetylation, lysine ubiquitylation and protein N-termianl acetylation level, our study underlined the substrate specificity of lysine methylation and its crosstalk with other types of PTMs. Totally, our study raised new insights into the global cellular methylation features in hematological cell lines, which provided further inspects into the distribution and function of lysine methylation. SIGNIFICANCE: Our study showed the global landscape of mono-, di- and trimethylomes in the EZH2-aberrant DLBCL cell lines, revealing the molecular characteristics of lysine methylation. Combined with the protein abundance and potential crosstalk among different types of PTMs, our study raised new insights into the global cellular methylation features in hematological tumors and provided further inspects into the distribution and function of lysine methylation.
PXD015099	31846766	The developmental phosphoproteome of Haemonchus contortus. 	The developmental phosphoproteome of Haemonchus contortus	DIA, Haemonchus contortus, Parasitic nematode, Phosphoproteome	Protein phosphorylation plays essential roles in many cellular processes. Despite recent progress in the genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics of socioeconomically important parasitic nematodes, there is scant phosphoproteomic data to underpin molecular biological discovery. Here, using the phosphopeptide enrichment-based LC-MS/MS and data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitation, we characterised the first developmental phosphoproteome of the parasitic nematode Haemonchus contortus - one of the most pathogenic parasites of ruminant livestock. Totally, 1804 phosphorylated proteins with 4406 phosphorylation sites ('phosphosites') from different developmental stages/sexes were identified. Bioinformatic analyses of quantified 'phosphosites' exhibited distinctive stage- and sex-specific patterns during development, and identified a subset of phosphoproteins proposed to play crucial roles in processes such as spindle positioning, signal transduction and kinase activity. A sequence-based comparison of the phosphoproteome of H. contortus with those of two free-living nematode species (Caenorhabditis elegans and Pristionchus pacificus) suggested a limited number of common protein phosphorylation events among these species. Our findings infer active roles for protein phosphorylation in the adaptation of a parasitic nematode to a constantly changing external environment. The phosphoproteomic data set for H. contortus provides a basis to better understand phosphorylation and associated biological processes (e.g., regulation of signal transduction), and might enable the discovery of novel anthelmintic targets. SIGNIFICANCE: Here, we report the first phosphoproteome for a socioeconomically parasitic nematode (Haemonchus contortus). This phosphoproteome exhibits distinctive patterns during development, suggesting active roles of post-translational modification in the parasite's adaptation to changing environments within and outside of the host animal. This work sheds a light on the developmental phosphorylation in a parasitic nematode, and could enable the discovery of novel interventions against major pathogens.
PXD016596	31847183	Analysis of EYA3 Phosphorylation by Src Kinase Identifies Residues Involved in Cell Proliferation. 	Analysis of EYA3 phosphorylation by Src kinase	EYA3, Src, nLC-MS/MS, native MS, tyrosine phosphorylation	Eyes absent (EYA) are non-thiol-based protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) that also have transcriptional co-activator functions. Their PTP activity is involved in various pathologies. Recently, we demonstrated that Src tyrosine kinase phosphorylates human EYA3 by controlling its subcellular localization. We also found EYA3's ability to autodephosphorylate, while raising the question if the two opposing processes could be involved in maintaining a physiologically adequate level of phosphorylation. Using native and bottom-up mass spectrometry, we performed detailed mapping and characterization of human EYA3 Src-phosphorylation sites. Thirteen tyrosine residues with different phosphorylation and autodephosphorylation kinetics were detected. Among these, Y77, 96, 237, and 508 displayed an increased resistance to autodephosphorylation. Y77 and Y96 were found to have the highest impact on the overall EYA3 phosphorylation. Using cell cycle analysis, we showed that Y77, Y96, and Y237 are involved in HEK293T proliferation. Mutation of the three tyrosine residues abolished the pro-proliferative effect of EYA3 overexpression. We have also identified a Src-induced phosphorylation pattern of EYA3 in these cells. These findings suggest that EYA3's tyrosine phosphorylation sites are non-equivalent with their phosphorylation levels being under the control of Src-kinase activity and of EYA3's autodephosphorylation.
PXD016337	31847368	The Peptide Venom Composition of the Fierce Stinging Ant Tetraponera aethiops (Formicidae: Pseudomyrmecinae). 	Tetraponera aethiops venom peptidome	ant, dimeric toxin, peptide, venom	In the mutualisms involving certain pseudomyrmicine ants and different myrmecophytes (i.e., plants sheltering colonies of specialized "plant-ant" species in hollow structures), the ant venom contributes to the host plant biotic defenses by inducing the rapid paralysis of defoliating insects and causing intense pain to browsing mammals. Using integrated transcriptomic and proteomic approaches, we identified the venom peptidome of the plant-ant Tetraponera aethiops (Pseudomyrmecinae). The transcriptomic analysis of its venom glands revealed that 40% of the expressed contigs encoded only seven peptide precursors related to the ant venom peptides from the A-superfamily. Among the 12 peptide masses detected by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), nine mature peptide sequences were characterized and confirmed through proteomic analysis. These venom peptides, called pseudomyrmecitoxins (PSDTX), share amino acid sequence identities with myrmeciitoxins known for their dual offensive and defensive functions on both insects and mammals. Furthermore, we demonstrated through reduction/alkylation of the crude venom that four PSDTXs were homo- and heterodimeric. Thus, we provide the first insights into the defensive venom composition of the ant genus Tetraponera indicative of a streamlined peptidome.
PXD013831	31848261	Mass Spectrometry Based Immunopeptidomics Leads to Robust Predictions of Phosphorylated HLA Class I Ligands. 	the landscape of phosphorylated HLA-I ligands	HLA binding peptides, Human Proteome Project, Immunopeptidomics, Phosphorylations, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	The presentation of peptides on class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA-I) molecules plays a central role in immune recognition of infected or malignant cells. In cancer, non-self HLA-I ligands can arise from many different alterations, including non-synonymous mutations, gene fusion, cancer-specific alternative mRNA splicing or aberrant post-translational modifications. Identifying HLA-I ligands remains a challenging task that requires either heavy experimental work for in vivo identification or optimized bioinformatics tools for accurate predictions. To date, no HLA-I ligand predictor includes post-translational modifications. To fill this gap, we curated phosphorylated HLA-I ligands from several immunopeptidomics studies (including six newly measured samples) covering 72 HLA-I alleles and retrieved a total of 2,066 unique phosphorylated peptides. We then expanded our motif deconvolution tool to identify precise binding motifs of phosphorylated HLA-I ligands. Our results reveal a clear enrichment of phosphorylated peptides among HLA-C ligands and demonstrate a prevalent role of both HLA-I motifs and kinase motifs on the presentation of phosphorylated peptides. These data further enabled us to develop and validate the first predictor of interactions between HLA-I molecules and phosphorylated peptides.
PXD012439	31848270	Host-Microbe Interactions in the Chemosynthetic Riftia pachyptila Symbiosis. 	Host-symbiont interactions in the chemosynthetic Riftia model symbiosis	Metaproteomics, deep sea, holobiont, hydrothermal vents, mutualism, mutualistic association	The deep-sea tubeworm Riftia pachyptila lacks a digestive system but completely relies on bacterial endosymbionts for nutrition. Although the symbiont has been studied in detail on the molecular level, such analyses were unavailable for the animal host, because sequence information was lacking. To identify host-symbiont interaction mechanisms, we therefore sequenced the Riftia transcriptome, which served as a basis for comparative metaproteomic analyses of symbiont-containing versus symbiont-free tissues, both under energy-rich and energy-limited conditions. Our results suggest that metabolic interactions include nutrient allocation from symbiont to host by symbiont digestion and substrate transfer to the symbiont by abundant host proteins. We furthermore propose that Riftia maintains its symbiont by protecting the bacteria from oxidative damage while also exerting symbiont population control. Eukaryote-like symbiont proteins might facilitate intracellular symbiont persistence. Energy limitation apparently leads to reduced symbiont biomass and increased symbiont digestion. Our study provides unprecedented insights into host-microbe interactions that shape this highly efficient symbiosis.IMPORTANCE All animals are associated with microorganisms; hence, host-microbe interactions are of fundamental importance for life on earth. However, we know little about the molecular basis of these interactions. Therefore, we studied the deep-sea Riftia pachyptila symbiosis, a model association in which the tubeworm host is associated with only one phylotype of endosymbiotic bacteria and completely depends on this sulfur-oxidizing symbiont for nutrition. Using a metaproteomics approach, we identified both metabolic interaction processes, such as substrate transfer between the two partners, and interactions that serve to maintain the symbiotic balance, e.g., host efforts to control the symbiont population or symbiont strategies to modulate these host efforts. We suggest that these interactions are essential principles of mutualistic animal-microbe associations.
PXD013159	31848340	LATS1 but not LATS2 represses autophagy by a kinase-independent scaffold function. 	Ubiquitinylation in cancer -  LATS1 but not LATS2 represses autophagy by a kinase-independent scaffold function	Beclin, GlyGly, mTOR	Autophagy perturbation represents an emerging therapeutic strategy in cancer. Although LATS1 and LATS2 kinases, core components of the mammalian Hippo pathway, have been shown to exert tumor suppressive activities, here we report a pro-survival role of LATS1 but not LATS2 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells. Specifically, LATS1 restricts lethal autophagy in HCC cells induced by sorafenib, the standard of care for advanced HCC patients. Notably, autophagy regulation by LATS1 is independent of its kinase activity. Instead, LATS1 stabilizes the autophagy core-machinery component Beclin-1 by promoting K27-linked ubiquitination at lysine residues K32 and K263 on Beclin-1. Consequently, ubiquitination of Beclin-1 negatively regulates autophagy by promoting inactive dimer formation of Beclin-1. Our study highlights a functional diversity between LATS1 and LATS2, and uncovers a scaffolding role of LATS1 in mediating a cross-talk between the Hippo signaling pathway and autophagy.
PXD013284	31849937	TcellSubC: An Atlas of the Subcellular Proteome of Human T Cells. 	HiRIEF-LC-MS based proteomics analysis of subcellular fractions of human CD4+ T-Cells with and without T-cell Receptor stimulation.	Subcellular, T-cell, T-cell receptor	We have curated an in-depth subcellular proteomic map of primary human CD4+ T cells, divided into cytosolic, nuclear and membrane fractions generated by an optimized fractionation and HiRIEF-LC-MS/MS workflow for limited amounts of primary cells. The subcellular proteome of T cells was mapped under steady state conditions, as well as upon 15 min and 1 h of T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, respectively. We quantified the subcellular distribution of 6,572 proteins and identified a subset of 237 potentially translocating proteins, including both well-known examples and novel ones. Microscopic validation confirmed the localization of selected proteins with previously known and unknown localization, respectively. We further provide the data in an easy-to-use web platform to facilitate re-use, as the data can be relevant for basic research as well as for clinical exploitation of T cells as therapeutic targets.
PXD015437	31850303	TULIP2: An Improved Method for the Identification of Ubiquitin E3-Specific Targets. 	TULIP2: an improved method for the identification of ubiquitin E3-specific targets	E3 enzymes, Post-translational modifications, Ubiquitin	Protein modification by Ubiquitin or Ubiquitin-like modifiers is mediated by an enzyme cascade composed of E1, E2, and E3 enzymes. E1s, or ubiquitin-activating enzymes, perform ubiquitin activation. Next, ubiquitin is transferred to ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes or E2s. Finally, ubiquitin ligases or E3s catalyze the transfer of ubiquitin to the acceptor proteins. E3 enzymes are responsible for determining the substrate specificity. Determining which E3 enzyme maps to which substrate is a major challenge that is greatly facilitated by the TULIP2 methodology. TULIP2 methodology is fast, precise, and cost-effective. Compared to the previous TULIP methodology protocol, TULIP2 methodology achieves a more than 50-fold improvement in the purification yield and two orders of magnitude improvement in the signal-to-background ratio after label free quantification by mass spectrometry analysis. The method includes the generation of TULIP2 cell lines, subsequent purification of TULIP2 conjugates, preparation, and analysis of samples by mass spectrometry.
PXD015796	31851335	Regulation of Photosynthetic Carbohydrate Metabolism by a Raf-Like Kinase in the Liverwort Marchantia polymorpha. 	Phosphoproteomics of Marchantia polymorpha upon Blue light and DCMU treatments	Blue light, DCMU, Marchantia polymorpha, Phosphoproteomics	To optimize growth and development, plants monitor photosynthetic activities and appropriately regulate various cellular processes. However, signaling mechanisms that coordinate plant growth with photosynthesis remain poorly understood. To identify factors that are involved in signaling related to photosynthetic stimuli, we performed a phosphoproteomic analysis with Marchantia polymorpha, an extant bryophyte species in the basal lineage of land plants. Among proteins whose phosphorylation status changed differentially between dark-treated plants and those after light irradiation but failed to do so in the presence of a photosynthesis inhibitor, we identified a B4-group Raf-like kinase, named PHOTOSYNTHESIS-RELATED RAF (MpPRAF). Biochemical analyses confirmed photosynthesis-activity-dependent changes in the phosphorylation status of MpPRAF. Mutations in the MpPRAF gene resulted in growth retardation. Measurement of carbohydrates demonstrated both hyper-accumulation of starch and reduction of sucrose in Mppraf mutants. Neither inhibition of starch synthesis nor exogenous supply of sucrose alleviated the growth defect, suggesting serious impairment of Mppraf mutants in both the synthesis of sucrose and the repression of its catabolism. As a result of the compromised photosynthate metabolism, photosynthetic electron transport was downregulated in Mppraf mutants. A mutated MpPRAF with a common amino acid substitution for inactivating kinase activity was unable to rescue the Mppraf mutant defects. Our results provide evidence that MpPRAF is a photosynthesis signaling kinase that regulates sucrose metabolism.
PXD014584	31851481	Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry Analysis of the Yeast Nucleus Reveals Extensive Protein-Protein Interactions Not Detected by Systematic Two-Hybrid or Affinity Purification-Mass Spectrometry. 	Yeast Nuclear Large Scale Cross-linking MS	DSSO, XL-MS, crosslinking, nucleus	Saccharomyces cerevisiae has the most comprehensively characterized protein-protein interaction network, or interactome, of any eukaryote. This has predominantly been generated through multiple, systematic studies of protein-protein interactions by two-hybrid techniques and of affinity-purified protein complexes. A pressing question is to understand how large-scale cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) can confirm and extend this interactome. Here, intact yeast nuclei were subject to cross-linking with disuccinimidyl sulfoxide (DSSO) and analyzed using hybrid MS2-MS3 methods. XlinkX identified a total of 2,052 unique residue pair cross-links at 1% FDR. Intraprotein cross-links were found to provide extensive structural constraint data, with almost all intralinks that mapped to known structures and slightly fewer of those mapping to homology models being within 30 Aa. Intralinks provided structural information for a further 366 proteins. A method for optimizing interprotein cross-link score cut-offs was developed, through use of extensive known yeast interactions. Its application led to a high confidence, yeast nuclear interactome. Strikingly, almost half of the interactions were not previously detected by two-hybrid or AP-MS techniques. Multiple lines of evidence existed for many such interactions, whether through literature or ortholog interaction data, through multiple unique interlinks between proteins, and/or through replicates. We conclude that XL-MS is a powerful means to measure interactions, that complements two-hybrid and affinity-purification techniques.
PXD012825	31851926	Dynamic Growth and Shrinkage of the Salmonella-Containing Vacuole Determines the Intracellular Pathogen Niche. 	Salmonella mediated intracellular niche control by SCV size regulation	SNARE, SVAT, Salmonella Containing Vacuole, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, macropinosome, magnetic extraction, membrane fusion, membrane rupture, membrane trafficking, tubule formation	Salmonella is a human and animal pathogen that causes gastro-enteric diseases. The key to Salmonella infection is its entry into intestinal epithelial cells, where the bacterium resides within a Salmonella-containing vacuole (SCV). Salmonella entry also induces the formation of empty macropinosomes, distinct from the SCV, in the vicinity of the entering bacteria. A few minutes after its formation, the SCV increases in size through fusions with the surrounding macropinosomes. Salmonella also induces membrane tubules that emanate from the SCV and lead to SCV shrinkage. Here, we show that these antipodal events are utilized by Salmonella to either establish a vacuolar niche or to be released into the cytosol by SCV rupture. We identify the molecular machinery underlying dynamic SCV growth and shrinkage. In particular, the SNARE proteins SNAP25 and STX4 participate in SCV inflation by fusion with macropinosomes. Thus, host compartment size control emerges as a pathogen strategy for intracellular niche regulation.
PXD014882	31852184	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the Protective Effects of Huangqi Decoction Against Acute Cholestatic Liver Injury by Inhibiting the NF-kappaB/IL-6/STAT3 Signaling Pathway. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals the protective effects of Huangqi decoction against intrahepatic cholestasis by inhibiting NF-B/IL-6/STAT3 signaling pathwa	Huangqi decoction, IL-6, Intrahepatic cholestasis, NF-B, STAT3	Intrahepatic cholestasis (IC) is a common syndrome that affects the liver, with treatment options being limited. Huangqi decoction (HQD), a classic herbal medicine, has shown protective effects against IC. In this study, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification-based quantitative proteomics was performed to investigate the potential mechanism of action of HQD on alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT)-induced IC, resulting in 2796 quantified proteins across all samples, including 270 differentially expressed proteins under HQD treatment. Fuzzy c-means clustering analysis of these 270 proteins assigned the proinflammatory proteins, such as LCN2, SAA1, FGG, FGA, and FGB, to Cluster 1 (upregulated by ANIT, and downregulated by HQD). Functional bioinformatics and protein-protein interaction network analyses indicated that these proinflammatory proteins were involved in the STAT3 signaling pathway. Further real-time PCR and Western blot experiments confirmed that the expression of these proteins was consistent with the proteomic results. Moreover, HQD treatment decreased the phosphorylation of STAT3, induced by ANIT. Western blot experiments revealed that HQD treatment decreased phosphorylation of NF-kappaB and downregulated the expression of the inflammatory gene IL-6 and therefore inhibited the IL-6/STAT3 signaling pathway. In summary, the present study suggested that HQD may ameliorate acute cholestatic liver injury via inhibition of the NF-kappaB/IL-6/STAT3 signaling pathway.
PXD007991	31852836	Molecular Basis of the Mechanisms Controlling MASTL. 	Molecular Basis of the mechanisms controlling MASTL - Proteomics analysis of MASTL substrate proteome and phosphorylation state	MASTL	The human MASTL (Microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinase-like) gene encodes an essential protein in the cell cycle. MASTL is a key factor preventing early dephosphorylation of M-phase targets of Cdk1/CycB. Little is known about the mechanism of MASTL activation and regulation. MASTL contains a non-conserved insertion of 550 residues within its activation loop, splitting the kinase domain, and making it unique. Here, we show that this non-conserved middle region (NCMR) of the protein is crucial for target specificity and activity. We performed a phosphoproteomic assay with different MASTL constructs identifying key phosphorylation sites for its activation and determining whether they arise from autophosphorylation or exogenous kinases, thus generating an activation model. Hydrogen/deuterium exchange data complements this analysis revealing that the C-lobe in full-length MASTL forms a stable structure, whereas the N-lobe is dynamic and the NCMR and C-tail contain few localized regions with higher-order structure. Our results indicate that truncated versions of MASTL conserving a cryptic C-Lobe in the NCMR, display catalytic activity and different targets, thus establishing a possible link with truncated mutations observed in cancer-related databases.
PXD013608	31852895	Characterization of a human liver reference material fit for proteomics applications. 	NIST Candidate RM 8461 Human Liver for Proteomics	Liver, NIST, Orbitrap, QC Material, Reference Material	The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is creating new, economical, qualitative reference materials and data for proteomics comparisons, benchmarking and harmonization. Here we describe a large dataset from shotgun proteomic analysis of RM 8461 Human Liver for Proteomics, a reference material being developed. Consensus identifications using multiple search engines and sample preparations demonstrate a homogeneous and fit-for-purpose material that can be incorporated into automated or manual sample preparation workflows, with the resulting data used to directly assess complete sample-to-data workflows and provide harmonization and benchmarking between laboratories and techniques. Data are available via PRIDE with identifier PXD013608.
PXD015661	31852911	Identification of The Canidae Iron Regulatory Hormone Hepcidin. 	IDENTIFICATION OF THE CANIDAE IRON REGULATORY HORMONE HEPCIDIN	Canine, Hepcidin, LC-MS	Hepcidins are an evolutionarily conserved class of liver-expressed peptide, from which the twenty-five amino acid hormone, hepcidin-25 (herein hepcidin), has gained significant notoriety as the master regulator of iron homeostasis in mammals. Hepcidin maintains iron homeostasis by controlling the dietary absorption of iron and the mechanisms of recycling cellular iron stores. With the physiological significance of this hormone well established, it has emerged as an informative biomarker. In a comparison of the genome, transcriptome and peptidome of Canis lupis familiaris, we reveal the size of the hepcidin peptide in the canine, previous reports of which were contradictory to the evolutionary conservation predicted by genome annotation. Here, measurement of the peptide by mass spectrometry, following isolation from greyhound blood serum, revealed an amino acid sequence and peptide mass, differing from all accounts to date, yet demonstrating perfect sequence identity to that of the greater Canidae lineage of the Carnivora. Importantly, in the greyhound, the measured hepcidin peptide showed a similar temporal pattern to total serum iron, consistent with our understanding of hepcidin regulating iron homeostasis, in agreement with human diagnostics, and providing added translational evidence of the measured peptide being the iron regulatory hormone of the Canidae.
PXD010534	31855752	Proteomic and transcriptomic changes in rat liver following oral feeding of formaldehyde. 	Proteomic changes in liver tissue of Rat (Rattus norvegicus) following formalin exposure	Formaldehyde, Liver, Rattus norvegicus	Formaldehyde (FA), a ubiquitous volatile organic compound present in a wide range of resources, is a hazardous chemical and human carcinogen. Contamination of FA in food, especially perishable commodities like fish and meat, is a major source of exposure, although it is not recommended for use in food and food products owing to its carcinogenicity. Effects of oral feeding of FA have been studied by evaluating general health, haematology and clinical chemistry in rat. Recent studies have shown that FA exposure leads to detrimental cardiovascular effects. It regulates vascular tensions through nitric oxide-cGMP signalling pathway and ion channels in rats. Although FA is an established carcinogen, molecular studies on carcinogenic potential with dose dependency are meagre. In this context, the present study was undertaken to investigate the toxicogenomic and proteomic alterations in liver of rats fed FA through drinking water. By proteomic analysis, 621 proteins/protein-subunits showed differential abundance (proteome data available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010534), whereas 536 differentially-expressed-genes were identified by transcriptome analysis (data available via Sequence Read Archive with identifier SRR7974113). Gene ontology analysis showed that binding, catalysis, signal transduction were affected in formaldehyde-fed rats. Pathway analysis revealed that formaldehyde-exposure activated PI3K-AKT pathway that leads to inhibition of caspase activity thereby assisting cells to survive against apoptosis. Decreased abundance/down-regulation of ANGPT, eNOS, STAT3 proteins/transcripts and increased abundance of EDN1 indicated decrease in angiogenesis and vasodilatation that restricted hepatic cells from becoming tumorigenic; thus, indicating FA could be less toxic and non-tumorigenic at low concentrations.
PXD014580	31856154	A BONCAT-iTRAQ method enables temporally resolved quantitative profiling of newly synthesised proteins in Leishmania mexicana parasites during starvation. 	Quantitative proteomics profiling of NSPs in Leishmania mexicana parasites during starvation	BONCAT, Leishmania mexicana, Traslation, iTRAQ	Adaptation to starvation is integral to the Leishmania life cycle. The parasite can survive prolonged periods of nutrient deprivation both in vitro and in vivo. The identification of parasite proteins synthesised during starvation is key to unravelling the underlying molecular mechanisms facilitating adaptation to these conditions. Additionally, as stress adaptation mechanisms in Leishmania are linked to virulence as well as infectivity, profiling of the complete repertoire of Newly Synthesised Proteins (NSPs) under starvation is important for drug target discovery. However, differential identification and quantitation of low abundance, starvation-specific NSPs from the larger background of the pre-existing parasite proteome has proven difficult, as this demands a highly selective and sensitive methodology. Herein we introduce an integrated chemical proteomics method in L. mexicana promastigotes that involves a powerful combination of the BONCAT technique and iTRAQ quantitative proteomics Mass Spectrometry (MS), which enabled temporally resolved quantitative profiling of de novo protein synthesis in the starving parasite. Uniquely, this approach integrates the high specificity of the BONCAT technique for the NSPs, with the high sensitivity and multiplexed quantitation capability of the iTRAQ proteomics MS. Proof-of-concept experiments identified over 250 starvation-responsive NSPs in the parasite. Our results show a starvation-specific increased relative abundance of several translation regulating and stress-responsive proteins in the parasite. GO analysis of the identified NSPs for Biological Process revealed translation (enrichment P value 2.47e-35) and peptide biosynthetic process (enrichment P value 4.84e-35) as extremely significantly enriched terms indicating the high specificity of the NSP towards regulation of protein synthesis. We believe that this approach will find widespread use in the study of the developmental stages of Leishmania species and in the broader field of protozoan biology.
PXD014232	31856193	Prolonged fasting followed by refeeding modifies proteome profile and parvalbumin expression in the fast-twitch muscle of pacu (Piaractus mesopotamicus). 	Prolonged fasting/refeeding modifies proteome profile and parvalbumin expression in the fast-twitch muscle of pacu (Piaractus mesopotamicus)	compensatory growth, fasting, muscle atrophy, parvalbumin, refeeding	Here, we analyzed the fast-twitch muscle of juvenile Piaractus mesopotamicus (pacu) submitted to prolonged fasting (30d) and refeeding (6h, 24h, 48h and 30d). We measured the relative rate of weight and length increase (RRIlength and RRIweight), performed shotgun proteomic analysis and did Western blotting for PVALB after 30d of fasting and 30d of refeeding. We assessed the gene expression of igf-1, mafbx and pvalb after 30d of fasting and after 6h, 24h, 48h and 30d of refeeding. We performed a bioinformatic analysis to predict miRNAs that possibly control parvalbumin expression. After fasting, RRIlength, RRIweight and igf-1 expression decreased, while the mafbx expression increased, which suggest that prolonged fasting caused muscle atrophy. After 6h and 24h of refeeding, mafbx was not changed and igf-1 was downregulated, while after 48h of refeeding mafbx was downregulated and igf-1 was not changed. After 30d of refeeding, RRIlength and RRIweight were increased and igf-1 and mafbx expression were not changed. Proteomic analysis identified 99 proteins after 30d of fasting and 71 proteins after 30d of refeeding, of which 23 and 17, respectively, were differentially expressed. Most of these differentially expressed proteins were related to cytoskeleton, muscle contraction, and metabolism. Among these, parvalbumin (PVALB) was selected for further validation. The analysis showed that pvalb mRNA was downregulated after 6h and 24h of refeeding, but was not changed after 30d of fasting or 48h and 30d of refeeding. The Western blotting confirmed that PVALB protein was downregulated after 30d of fasting and 30d of refeeding. The downregulation of the protein and the unchanged expression of the mRNA after 30d of fasting and 30d of refeeding suggest a post-transcriptional regulation of PVALB. Our miRNA analysis predicted 444 unique miRNAs that may target pvalb. In conclusion, muscle atrophy and partial compensatory growth caused by prolonged fasting followed by refeeding affected the muscle proteome and PVALB expression.
PXD016681	31857374	NIMA-related kinase 9-mediated phosphorylation of the microtubule-associated LC3B protein at Thr-50 suppresses selective autophagy of p62/sequestosome 1. 	NIMA-related kinase 9-mediated phosphorylation of the microtubule-associated LC3B protein at Thr-50 suppresses selective autophagy of p62/sequestosome 1	Autophagy, In vitro phosphorylation, Microtubule-associated LC3B protein	Human ATG8 family proteins (ATG8s) are active in all steps of the macroautophagy pathway, and their lipidation is essential for autophagosome formation. Lipidated ATG8s anchored to the outer surface of the phagophore serve as scaffolds for binding of other core autophagy proteins and various effector proteins involved in trafficking or fusion events, whereas those at the inner surface are needed for assembly of selective autophagy substrates. Their scaffolding role depends on specific interactions between the LC3-interacting region (LIR) docking site (LDS) in ATG8s and LIR motifs in various interaction partners. LC3B is phosphorylated at Thr-50 within the LDS by serine/threonine kinase (STK) 3 and STK4. Here, we identified LIR motifs in STK3 and atypical protein kinase Czeta (PKCzeta) and never in mitosis A (NIMA)-related kinase 9 (NEK9). All three kinases phosphorylated LC3B Thr-50 in vitro A phospho-mimicking substitution of Thr-50 impaired binding of several LIR-containing proteins, such as ATG4B, FYVE, and coiled-coil domain-containing 1 (FYCO1), and autophagy cargo receptors p62/sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1) and neighbor of BRCA1 gene (NBR1). NEK9 knockdown or knockout enhanced degradation of the autophagy receptor and substrate p62. Of note, the suppression of p62 degradation was mediated by NEK9-mediated phosphorylation of LC3B Thr-50. Consistently, reconstitution of LC3B-KO cells with the phospho-mimicking T50E variant inhibited autophagic p62 degradation. PKCzeta knockdown did not affect autophagic p62 degradation, whereas STK3/4 knockouts inhibited autophagic p62 degradation independently of LC3B Thr-50 phosphorylation. Our findings suggest that NEK9 suppresses LC3B-mediated autophagy of p62 by phosphorylating Thr-50 within the LDS of LC3B.
PXD015311	31857389	Lipid droplet-associated kinase STK25 regulates peroxisomal activity and metabolic stress response in steatotic liver. 	Global Proteomic Analysis Implicates Hepatic Lipid Droplet-Associated Kinase STK25 in Regulation of Metabolic Stress Response in Steatotic Liver	STK25, lipid droplet, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, phosphoproteomics	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are emerging as leading causes of liver disease worldwide and have been recognized as one of the major unmet medical needs of the 21st century. Our recent translational studies in mouse models, human cell lines, and well-characterized patient cohorts have identified serine/threonine kinase (STK)25 as a protein that coats intrahepatocellular lipid droplets (LDs) and critically regulates liver lipid homeostasis and progression of NAFLD/NASH. Here, we studied the mechanism-of-action of STK25 in steatotic liver by relative quantification of the hepatic LD-associated phosphoproteome from high-fat diet-fed Stk25 knockout mice compared with their wild-type littermates. We observed a total of 131 proteins and 60 phosphoproteins that were differentially represented in STK25-deficient livers. Most notably, a number of proteins involved in peroxisomal function, ubiquitination-mediated proteolysis, and antioxidant defense were coordinately regulated in Stk25(-/-) versus wild-type livers. We confirmed attenuated peroxisomal biogenesis and protection against oxidative and ER stress in STK25-deficient human liver cells, demonstrating the hepatocyte-autonomous manner of STK25's action. In summary, our results suggest that regulation of peroxisomal function and metabolic stress response may be important molecular mechanisms by which STK25 controls the development and progression of NAFLD/NASH.
PXD013161	31857432	Deubiquitinase Activity Profiling Identifies UCHL1 as a Candidate Oncoprotein That Promotes TGFbeta-Induced Breast Cancer Metastasis. 	DUB Profiling of 20 different breast cancer cell lines.	Breast cancer, De-ubiquitinase, TGFb, ubiquitin	PURPOSE: Therapies directed to specific molecular targets are still unmet for patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Deubiquitinases (DUB) are emerging drug targets. The identification of highly active DUBs in TNBC may lead to novel therapies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using DUB activity probes, we profiled global DUB activities in 52 breast cancer cell lines and 52 patients' tumor tissues. To validate our findings in vivo, we employed both zebrafish and murine breast cancer xenograft models. Cellular and molecular mechanisms were elucidated using in vivo and in vitro biochemical methods. A specific inhibitor was synthesized, and its biochemical and biological functions were assessed in a range of assays. Finally, we used patient sera samples to investigate clinical correlations. RESULTS: Two DUB activity profiling approaches identified UCHL1 as being highly active in TNBC cell lines and aggressive tumors. Functionally, UCHL1 promoted metastasis in zebrafish and murine breast cancer xenograft models. Mechanistically, UCHL1 facilitates TGFbeta signaling-induced metastasis by protecting TGFbeta type I receptor and SMAD2 from ubiquitination. We found that these responses are potently suppressed by the specific UCHL1 inhibitor, 6RK73. Furthermore, UCHL1 levels were significantly increased in sera of patients with TNBC, and highly enriched in sera exosomes as well as TNBC cell-conditioned media. UCHL1-enriched exosomes stimulated breast cancer migration and extravasation, suggesting that UCHL1 may act in a paracrine manner to promote tumor progression. CONCLUSIONS: Our DUB activity profiling identified UCHL1 as a candidate oncoprotein that promotes TGFbeta-induced breast cancer metastasis and may provide a potential target for TNBC treatment.
PXD014825	31857848	Analog-sensitive cell line identifies cellular substrates of CDK9. 	Identification of cellular CDK9 substrates using an analog-sensitive cell line	Analog-sensitive, P-TEFb, Protein phosphorylation	Transcriptional cyclin-dependent kinases regulate all phases of transcription. Cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (CDK9) has been implicated in the regulation of promoter-proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II and more recently in transcription termination. Study of the substrates of CDK9 has mostly been limited to in vitro approaches that lack a quantitative assessment of CDK9 activity. Here we analyzed the cellular phosphoproteome upon inhibition of CDK9 by combining analog-sensitive kinase technology with quantitative phosphoproteomics in Raji B-cells. Our analysis revealed the activity of CDK9 on 1102 phosphosites quantitatively, and we identified 120 potential cellular substrates. Furthermore, a substantial number of CDK9 substrates were described as splicing factors, highlighting the role of CDK9 in transcription-coupled splicing events. Based on comparison to in vitro data, our findings suggest that cellular context fundamentally impacts the activity of CDK9 and specific selection of its substrates.
PXD015987	31859485	An Integrated Mass Spectroscopy Data Processing Strategy for Fast Identification, In-Depth, and Reproducible Quantification of Protein O-Glycosylation in a Large Cohort of Human Urine Samples. 	An integrated MS data processing strategy for fast identification, in-depth and reproducible quantification of protein O-glycosylation in large cohorts of human urine samples	O-glycopeptide, sialic acid, urine	Protein O-glycosylation has long been recognized to be closely associated with many diseases, particularly with tumor proliferation, invasion, and metastasis. The ability to efficiently profile the variation of O-glycosylation in large-scale clinical samples provides an important approach for the development of biomarkers for cancer diagnosis and for therapeutic response evaluation. Therefore, mass spectrometry (MS)-based techniques for high throughput, in-depth and reliable elucidation of protein O-glycosylation in large clinical cohorts are in high demand. However, the wide existence of serine and threonine residues in the proteome and the tens of mammalian O-glycan types lead to extremely large searching space composed of millions of theoretical combinations of peptides and O-glycans for intact O-glycopeptide database searching. As a result, an exceptionally long time is required for database searching, which is a major obstacle in O-glycoproteome studies of large clinical cohorts. More importantly, because of the low abundance and poor ionization of intact O-glycopeptides and the stochastic nature of data-dependent MS2 acquisition, substantially elevated missing data levels are inevitable as the sample number increases, which undermines the quantitative comparison across samples. Therefore, we report a new MS data processing strategy that integrates glycoform-specific database searching, reference library-based MS1 feature matching and MS2 identification propagation for fast identification, in-depth, and reproducible label-free quantification of O-glycosylation of human urinary proteins. This strategy increases the database searching speeds by up to 20-fold and leads to a 30%-40% enhanced intact O-glycopeptide quantification in individual samples with an obviously improved reproducibility. In total, we identified 1300 intact O-glycopeptides in 36 healthy human urine samples with a 30%-40% reduction in the amount of missing data. This is currently the largest dataset of urinary O-glycoproteome and demonstrates the application potential of this new strategy in large-scale clinical investigations.
PXD016428	31860302	Glyco-CPLL: An Integrated Method for In-Depth and Comprehensive N-Glycoproteome Profiling of Human Plasma. 	Glyco-CPLL: an integrated method for in-depth and comprehensive N-glycoproteome profiling of human plasma	Combinatorial Peptide Ligands Library, N-glycoproteomics, Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma	N-glycoproteins are involved in various biological processes. Certain distinctive glycoforms on specific glycoproteins enhance the specificity and/or sensitivity of cancer diagnosis. Therefore, the characterization of plasma N-glycoproteome is essential for a new biomarker discovery. The absence of suitable analytical methods for in-depth and large-scale analyses of low-abundance plasma glycoproteins makes it challenging to investigate the role of glycosylation. In this study, we developed an integrated method termed Glyco-CPLL, which integrates combinatorial peptide ligand libraries, high-pH reversed-phase prefractionation, hydrophilic interaction chromatography, trypsin and PNGase F digestion, shotgun proteomics, and various analysis software (MaxQuant and pGlyco2.0) for the low-abundance plasma glycoproteomic profiling. Then, we utilized the method to perform a comparative study and to explore papillary thyroid carcinoma-related proteins and glycosylations with reference to healthy controls. Finally, a large and comprehensive human plasma N-glycoproteomic database was established, containing 786 proteins, 369 N-glycoproteins, 862 glycosites, 171 glycan compositions, and 1644 unique intact N-glycopeptides. Additionally, several low-abundance plasma glycoproteins were identified, including SVEP1 (~0.54 ng/mL), F8 (~0.83 ng/mL), and ADAMTS13 (~1.2 ng/mL). These results suggest that this method will be useful for analyzing plasma intact glycopeptides in future studies. Besides, the Glyco-CPLL method has a great potential to be translated to clinical applications. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016428.
PXD016255	31862883	A mitochondrial megachannel resides in monomeric F1FO ATP synthase. 	Purified Porcine  ATP synthaseLCMSMS	ATP synthase, Porcine	Purified mitochondrial ATP synthase has been shown to form Ca(2+)-activated, large conductance channel activity similar to that of mitochondrial megachannel (MMC) or mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) but the oligomeric state required for channel formation is being debated. We reconstitute purified monomeric ATP synthase from porcine heart mitochondria into small unilamellar vesicles (SUVs) with the lipid composition of mitochondrial inner membrane and analyze its oligomeric state by electron cryomicroscopy. The cryo-EM density map reveals the presence of a single ATP synthase monomer with no density seen for a second molecule tilted at an 86(o) angle relative to the first. We show that this preparation of SUV-reconstituted ATP synthase monomers, when fused into giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs), forms voltage-gated and Ca(2+)-activated channels with the key features of mPTP. Based on our findings we conclude that the ATP synthase monomer is sufficient, and dimer formation is not required, for mPTP activity.
PXD016401	31862968	Definition of functionally and structurally distinct repressive states in the nuclear receptor PPARgamma. 	Definition of functionally and structurally distinct repressive states in the nuclear receptor PPARgamma	PPARgamma, nuclear receptor, protein structure	The repressive states of nuclear receptors (i.e., apo or bound to antagonists or inverse agonists) are poorly defined, despite the fact that nuclear receptors are a major drug target. Most ligand bound structures of nuclear receptors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), are similar to the apo structure. Here we use NMR, accelerated molecular dynamics and hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry to define the PPARgamma structural ensemble. We find that the helix 3 charge clamp positioning varies widely in apo and is stabilized by efficacious ligand binding. We also reveal a previously undescribed mechanism for inverse agonism involving an omega loop to helix switch which induces disruption of a tripartite salt-bridge network. We demonstrate that ligand binding can induce multiple structurally distinct repressive states. One state recruits peptides from two different corepressors, while another recruits just one, providing structural evidence of ligand bias in a nuclear receptor.
PXD015749	31866046	Pathogenic Bi-allelic Mutations in NDUFAF8 Cause Leigh Syndrome with an Isolated Complex I Deficiency. 	Complexome profiling of mitochondrial protein complexes from patients with mutation in NDUFAF8 gene	complex I assembly, complexome profiling, oxidative phosphorylation system	Leigh syndrome is one of the most common neurological phenotypes observed in pediatric mitochondrial disease presentations. It is characterized by symmetrical lesions found on neuroimaging in the basal ganglia, thalamus, and brainstem and by a loss of motor skills and delayed developmental milestones. Genetic diagnosis of Leigh syndrome is complicated on account of the vast genetic heterogeneity with >75 candidate disease-associated genes having been reported to date. Candidate genes are still emerging, being identified when "omics" tools (genomics, proteomics, and transcriptomics) are applied to manipulated cell lines and cohorts of clinically characterized individuals who lack a genetic diagnosis. NDUFAF8 is one such protein; it has been found to interact with the well-characterized complex I (CI) assembly factor NDUFAF5 in a large-scale protein-protein interaction screen. Diagnostic next-generation sequencing has identified three unrelated pediatric subjects, each with a clinical diagnosis of Leigh syndrome, who harbor bi-allelic pathogenic variants in NDUFAF8. These variants include a recurrent splicing variant that was initially overlooked due to its deep-intronic location. Subject fibroblasts were found to express a complex I deficiency, and lentiviral transduction with wild-type NDUFAF8-cDNA ameliorated both the assembly defect and the biochemical deficiency. Complexome profiling of subject fibroblasts demonstrated a complex I assembly defect, and the stalled assembly intermediates corroborate the role of NDUFAF8 in early complex I assembly. This report serves to expand the genetic heterogeneity associated with Leigh syndrome and to validate the clinical utility of orphan protein characterization. We also highlight the importance of evaluating intronic sequence when a single, definitively pathogenic variant is identified during diagnostic testing.
PXD013359	31866989	A Similar Secretome Disturbance as a Hallmark of Non-pathogenic Botrytis cinerea ATMT-Mutants? 	Proteomic analysis of several non pathogenic mutants from Botrytis cinerea.	Botrytis cinerea, non phytopathogenic mutant, quantitative proteome	The gray mold fungus Botrytis cinerea is a necrotrophic pathogen able to infect hundreds of host plants, including high-value crops such as grapevine, strawberry and tomato. In order to decipher its infectious strategy, a library of 2,144 mutants was generated by random insertional mutagenesis using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT). Twelve mutants exhibiting total loss of virulence toward different host plants were chosen for detailed analyses. Their molecular characterization revealed a single T-DNA insertion in different loci. Using a proteomics approach, the secretome of four of these strains was compared to that of the parental strain and a common profile of reduced lytic enzymes was recorded. Significant variations in this profile, notably deficiencies in the secretion of proteases and hemicellulases, were observed and validated by biochemical tests. They were also a hallmark of the remaining eight non-pathogenic strains, suggesting the importance of these secreted proteins in the infection process. In the twelve non-pathogenic mutants, the differentiation of infection cushions was also impaired, suggesting a link between the penetration structures and the secretion of proteins involved in the virulence of the pathogen.
PXD015617	31867836	Environmental conditions steer phenotypic switching in acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease-causing Vibrio parahaemolyticus, affecting PirA(VP) /PirB(VP) toxins production. 	Environmental conditions steer phenotypic switching in AHPND-causing Vibrio parahaemolyticus, affecting PirABVP toxin production	Vibrio parahaemolyticus, antimicrobial resistance, biological features, fluid shear, phenotype switching, virulence	Bacteria in nature are widely exposed to differential fluid shears which are often a trigger for phenotypic switches. The latter mediates transcriptional and translation remodelling of cellular metabolism impacting among others virulence, antimicrobial resistance and stress resistance. In this study, we evaluated the role of fluid shear on phenotypic switch in an acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease (AHPND)-causing Vibrio parahaemolyticus M0904 strain under both in vitro and in vivo conditions. The results showed that V. parahaemolyticus M0904 grown at lower shaking speed (110 rpm constant agitation, M0904/110), causing low fluid shear, develop cellular aggregates or floccules. These cells increased levan production (as verified by concanavalin binding) and developed differentially stained colonies on Congo red agar plates and resistance to antibiotics. In addition, the phenotypic switch causes a major shift in the protein secretome. At 120 rpm (M0904/120), PirA(VP) /PirB(VP) toxins are mainly produced, while at 110 rpm PirA(VP) /PirB(VP) toxins production is stopped and an alkaline phosphatase (ALP) PhoX becomes the dominant protein in the protein secretome. These observations are matched with a very strong reduction in virulence of M0904/110 towards two crustacean larvae, namely, Artemia and Macrobrachium. Taken together, our study provides substantial evidence for the existence of two phenotypic forms in AHPND V. parahaemolyticus strain displaying differential phenotypes. Moreover, as aerators and pumping devices are frequently used in shrimp aquaculture facilities, they can inflict fluid shear to the standing microbial agents. Hence, our study could provide a basis to understand the behaviour of AHPND-causing V. parahaemolyticus in aquaculture settings and open the possibility to monitor and control AHPND by steering phenotypes.
PXD015101	31868294	Glycated Plasma Proteins as More Sensitive Markers for Glycemic Control in Type 1 Diabetes. 	Glycated proteomics T1D glycemic control	Type 1 diabetes, amadori modification, glycated proteome, glycemic control	PURPOSE: Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) is used clinically for diagnosis and therapeutic management of diabetes. However, HbA1c reflects average blood glucose level over a long period. The aim of this study is to look for short period, more sensitive protein markers that correlate better with glycemic level. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The glycated proteome of human plasma from type 1 diabetic individuals with good and poor (n = 20 each) glycemic control are analyzed using an online two-dimensional proteomics approach. Selected glycated peptides are further validated for their potential as candidate biomarkers using parallel reaction monitoring. RESULTS: 305 glycated peptides are quantified and 290 are significantly increased in samples with poor glycemic control. 76 of the 88 selected glycated peptides have receiver operating characteristic area under curve (AUC) values greater than 0.8. Six validated glycated peptides with high AUC show high correlation with HbA1c and have higher fold changes between poor and good glycemic control than HbA1c. The parent proteins have half-lives shorter than HbA1c. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Using an advanced proteomics platform for protein glycation analysis, glycated peptides and proteins are identified that are promising as more sensitive, shorter term indicators of glycemic control in diabetic patients than the commonly used HbA1c.
PXD015963	31870452	Comparative phosphorylation map of Dishevelled 3 links phospho-signatures to biological outputs. 	Comparative phosphorylation map of Dishevelled 3 links phospho-signatures to biological outputs.	Dishevelled/DVL3/phosphorylation/kinase/mass spectrometry/CK1/TTBK2/NEK2/Wnt	BACKGROUND: Dishevelled (DVL) is an essential component of the Wnt signaling cascades. Function of DVL is controlled by phosphorylation but the molecular details are missing. DVL3 contains 131 serines and threonines whose phosphorylation generates complex barcodes underlying diverse DVL3 functions. In order to dissect the role of DVL phosphorylation we analyzed the phosphorylation of human DVL3 induced by previously reported (CK1epsilon, NEK2, PLK1, CK2alpha, RIPK4, PKCdelta) and newly identified (TTBK2, Aurora A) DVL kinases. METHODS: Shotgun proteomics including TiO2 enrichment of phosphorylated peptides followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry on immunoprecipitates from HEK293T cells was used to identify and quantify phosphorylation of DVL3 protein induced by 8 kinases. Functional characterization was performed by in-cell analysis of phospho-mimicking/non-phosphorylatable DVL3 mutants and supported by FRET assays and NMR spectroscopy. RESULTS: We used quantitative mass spectrometry and calculated site occupancies and quantified phosphorylation of > 80 residues. Functional validation demonstrated the importance of CK1epsilon-induced phosphorylation of S268 and S311 for Wnt-3a-induced beta-catenin activation. S630-643 cluster phosphorylation by CK1, NEK2 or TTBK2 is essential for even subcellular distribution of DVL3 when induced by CK1 and TTBK2 but not by NEK2. Further investigation showed that NEK2 utilizes a different mechanism to promote even localization of DVL3. NEK2 triggered phosphorylation of PDZ domain at S263 and S280 prevents binding of DVL C-terminus to PDZ and promotes an open conformation of DVL3 that is more prone to even subcellular localization. CONCLUSIONS: We identify unique phosphorylation barcodes associated with DVL function. Our data provide an example of functional synergy between phosphorylation in structured domains and unstructured IDRs that together dictate the biological outcome. Video Abtract.
PXD015071	31872528	In vivo hyperglycaemia exposure elicits distinct period-dependent effects on human pancreatic progenitor differentiation, conveyed by oxidative stress. 	In vivo hyperglycemia exposure elicits distinct period-dependent effects on human pancreatic progenitor differentiation, conveyed by oxidative stress	Human induced pluripotent stem cells, hyperglycemia, oxidative stress	AIM: The loss of insulin-secreting beta-cells, ultimately characterizing most diabetes forms, demands the development of cell replacement therapies. The common endpoint for all ex vivo strategies is transplantation into diabetic patients. However, the effects of hyperglycaemia environment on the transplanted cells were not yet properly assessed. Thus, the main goal of this study was to characterize global effect of brief and prolonged in vivo hyperglycaemia exposure on the cell fate acquisition and maintenance of transplanted human pancreatic progenitors. METHODS: To rigorously study the effect of hyperglycaemia, in vitro differentiated human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC)-derived pancreatic progenitors were xenotransplanted in normoglycaemic and diabetic NSG rat insulin promoter (RIP)-diphtheria toxin receptor (DTR) mice. The transplants were retrieved after 1-week or 1-month exposure to overt hyperglycaemia and analysed by large-scale microscopy or global proteomics. For this study we pioneer the use of the NSG RIP-DTR system in the transplantation of hiPSC, making use of its highly reproducible specific and absolute beta-cell ablation property in the absence of inflammation or other organ toxicity. RESULTS: Here we show for the first time that besides the presence of an induced oxidative stress signature, the cell fate and proteome landscape response to hyperglycaemia was different, involving largely different mechanisms, according to the period spent in the hyperglycaemic environment. Surprisingly, brief hyperglycaemia exposure increased the bihormonal cell number by impeding the activity of specific islet lineage determinants. Moreover, it activated antioxidant and inflammation protection mechanisms signatures in the transplanted cells. In contrast, the prolonged exposure was characterized by decreased numbers of hormone + cells, low/absent detoxification signature, augmented production of oxygen reactive species and increased apoptosis. CONCLUSION: Hyperglycaemia exposure induced distinct, period-dependent, negative effects on xenotransplanted human pancreatic progenitor, affecting their energy homeostasis, cell fate acquisition and survival.
PXD014478	31872541	Comparative Proteomic Profiling of Methicillin-Susceptible and Resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 	Comparative proteomic profiling of methicillin-susceptible and resistant Staphylococcus aureus	Comparative proteomics, MRSA, MSSA	Staphylococcus aureus is a highly successful human pathogen responsible for a wide range of infections. This study provides insights into the virulence, pathogenicity, and antimicrobial resistance determinants of methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MSSA; MRSA) recovered from non-healthcare environments. Three environmental MSSA and three environmental MRSA are selected for proteomic profiling using isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation tandem mass spectrometry (iTRAQ MS/MS). Gene Ontology annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway annotation are applied to interpret the functions of the proteins detected. 792 proteins are identified in MSSA and MRSA. Comparative analysis of MRSA and MSSA reveals that 8 of out 792 proteins are upregulated and 156 are downregulated. Proteins that have differences in abundance are predominantly involved in catalytic and binding activity. Among 164 differently abundant proteins, 29 are involved in pathogenesis, antimicrobial resistance, stress response, mismatch repair, and cell wall synthesis. Twenty-two proteins associated with pathogenicity including SPA, SBI, CLFA, and DLT are upregulated in MRSA. Moreover, the upregulated pathogenic protein ENTC2 in MSSA is determined to be a super antigen, potentially capable of triggering toxic shock syndrome in the host. Enhanced pathogenicity, antimicrobial resistance, and stress response are observed in MRSA compared to MSSA.
PXD014845	31873071	Human cytomegalovirus interactome analysis identifies degradation hubs, domain associations and viral protein functions. 	Global analysis of the human cytomegalovirus interactome identifies degradation hubs, domain associations and viral protein functions	host-pathogen interaction, human cytomegalovirus, immune evasion, protein-protein interaction, systems virology	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) extensively modulates host cells, downregulating >900 human proteins during viral replication and degrading >=133 proteins shortly after infection. The mechanism of degradation of most host proteins remains unresolved, and the functions of many viral proteins are incompletely characterised. We performed a mass spectrometry-based interactome analysis of 169 tagged, stably-expressed canonical strain Merlin HCMV proteins, and two non-canonical HCMV proteins, in infected cells. This identified a network of >3400 virus-host and >150 virus-virus protein interactions, providing insights into functions for multiple viral genes. Domain analysis predicted binding of the viral UL25 protein to SH3 domains of NCK Adaptor Protein-1. Viral interacting proteins were identified for 31/133 degraded host targets. Finally, the uncharacterised, non-canonical ORFL147C protein was found to interact with elements of the mRNA splicing machinery, and a mutational study suggested its importance in viral replication. The interactome data will be important for future studies of herpesvirus infection.
PXD014343	31873209	Lymphatic remodelling in response to lymphatic injury in the hind limbs of sheep. 	Qualitative and label-free quantitative analysis of protein changes in the lymphatic muscle cells isolated in a hind-limb lymphatic injury model in the sheep	sheep lymphatic muscle cells	Contractile activity in the lymphatic vasculature is essential for maintaining fluid balance within organs and tissues. However, the mechanisms by which collecting lymphatics adapt to changes in fluid load and how these adaptations influence lymphatic contractile activity are unknown. Here we report a model of lymphatic injury based on the ligation of one of two parallel lymphatic vessels in the hind limb of sheep and the evaluation of structural and functional changes in the intact, remodelling lymphatic vessel over a 42-day period. We show that the remodelled lymphatic vessel displayed increasing intrinsic contractile frequency, force generation and vessel compliance, as well as decreasing flow-mediated contractile inhibition via the enzyme endothelial nitric oxide synthase. A computational model of a chain of lymphatic contractile segments incorporating these adaptations predicted increases in the flow-generation capacity of the remodelled vessel at the expense of normal mitochondrial function and elevated oxidative stress within the lymphatic muscle. Our findings may inform interventions for mitigating lymphatic muscle fatigue in patients with dysfunctional lymphatics.
PXD015362	31874121	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics Distinguishes General and Site-Specific Host Responses to Pseudomonas aeruginosa Infection at the Ocular Surface. 	Proteomic profiling of murine ocular surface during Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, cornea, eye wash, neutrophils, quantitative proteomics	Mass spectrometry-based proteomics enables the unbiased and sensitive profiling of cellular proteomes and extracellular environments. Recent technological and bioinformatic advances permit identifying dual biological systems in a single experiment, supporting investigation of infection from both the host and pathogen perspectives. At the ocular surface, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is commonly associated with biofilm formation and inflammation of the ocular tissues, causing damage to the eye. The interaction between P. aeruginosa and the immune system at the site of infection describes limitations in clearance of infection and enhanced pathogenesis. Here, the extracellular environment (eye wash) of murine ocular surfaces infected with a clinical isolate of P. aeruginosa is profiled and neutrophil marker proteins are detected, indicating neutrophil recruitment to the site of infection. The first potential diagnostic markers of P. aeruginosa-associated keratitis are also identified. In addition, the deepest murine corneal proteome to date is defined and proteins, categories, and networks critical to the host response are detected. Moreover, the first identification of bacterial proteins attached to the ocular surface is reported. The findings are validated through in silico comparisons and enzymatic profiling. Overall, the work provides comprehensive profiling of the host-pathogen interface and uncovers differences between general and site-specific host responses to infection.
PXD013719	31874152	RAB18 Loss Interferes With Lipid Droplet Catabolism and Provokes Autophagy Network Adaptations. 	RAB18 impacts autophagy via lipid droplet-derived lipid transfer and is rescued by ATG9A	ATG2B, ATG9A, Rab18	Autophagy is dependent on appropriate lipid supply for autophagosome formation. The regulation of lipid acquisition and the autophagy network response to lipid-limiting conditions are mostly elusive. Here, we show that the knockout of the RAB GTPase RAB18 interferes with lipid droplet catabolism, causing an impaired fatty acid release. The resulting reduced lipid-droplet-derived lipid availability influences autophagy and provokes adaptive modifications of the autophagy network. These adjustments include increased expression and phosphorylation of ATG2B as well as augmented formation of the ATG12-ATG5 conjugate. Moreover, ATG9A shows an enhanced phosphorylation at amino acid residues tyrosine 8 and serine 14, resulting in an increased ATG9A trafficking. Via pharmacological inhibition of Y8 phosphorylation, we demonstrate that this ATG9A modification is important to maintain basal autophagy under RAB18 knockout conditions. However, while the network adaptations are sufficient to maintain basal autophagic activity, they are incapable of ensuring autophagy induction upon starvation, which is characterized by an enhanced lipid demand. Thus, here, we define the molecular role of RAB18 in connecting lipid droplets and autophagy, emphasize the significance of lipid droplets as lipid sources for the degradative pathway, and uncover a remarkable autophagy network plasticity, including phosphorylation-dependent ATG9A activation, to compensate reduced lipid availability in order to rescue basal autophagic activity.
PXD014189	31875563	The Heat Shock Response in Yeast Maintains Protein Homeostasis by Chaperoning and Replenishing Proteins. 	The heat shock response in yeast is modular and maintains protein homeostasis via distinct mechanisms	LFQ, SILAC, chaperones, heat shock response, phase transition	Life is resilient because living systems are able to respond to elevated temperatures with an ancient gene expression program called the heat shock response (HSR). In yeast, the transcription of hundreds of genes is upregulated at stress temperatures. Besides stress protection conferred by chaperones, the function of the majority of the upregulated genes under stress has remained enigmatic. We show that those genes are required to directly counterbalance increased protein turnover at stress temperatures and to maintain the metabolism. This anaplerotic reaction together with molecular chaperones allows yeast to efficiently buffer proteotoxic stress. When the capacity of this system is exhausted at extreme temperatures, aggregation processes stop translation and growth pauses. The emerging concept is that the HSR is modular with distinct programs dependent on the severity of the stress.
PXD010431	31876091	Colonies of the fungus Aspergillus niger are highly differentiated to adapt to local carbon source variation. 	An Aspergillus niger colony locally adapts its molecular responses to spatially separated substrates	CAZymes, carbon source composition, lignocellulose	Saprobic fungi, such as Aspergillus niger, grow as colonies consisting of a network of branching and fusing hyphae that are often considered to be relatively uniform entities in which nutrients can freely move through the hyphae. In nature, different parts of a colony are often exposed to different nutrients. We have investigated, using a multi-omics approach, adaptation of A. niger colonies to spatially separated and compositionally different plant biomass substrates. This demonstrated a high level of intra-colony differentiation, which closely matched the locally available substrate. The part of the colony exposed to pectin-rich sugar beet pulp and to xylan-rich wheat bran showed high pectinolytic and high xylanolytic transcript and protein levels respectively. This study therefore exemplifies the high ability of fungal colonies to differentiate and adapt to local conditions, ensuring efficient use of the available nutrients, rather than maintaining a uniform physiology throughout the colony.
PXD016668	31876377	Data-Independent Acquisition-Based Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals Dynamic Network Profiles during the Macrophage Inflammatory Response. 	Data-independent acquisition-based quantitative proteomics analysis reveals dynamic network profiles during the macrophage inflammatory response.	data-independent acquisition, inflammation, lipopolysaccharide, transcriptome	Understanding of the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying the inflammatory response is incomplete. The present study focuses on characterizing the proteome in a model of inflammation in macrophages treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). A total of 3597 proteins are identified in macrophages with the data-independent acquisition (DIA) method. Bioinformatic analyses reveal discrete modules and the underlying molecular mechanisms, as well as the signaling network that modulates the development of inflammation. It is found that a total of 87 differentially expressed proteins are shared by all stages of LPS-induced inflammation in macrophages and that 18 of these proteins participate in metabolic processes by forming a tight interaction network. Data support the hypothesis that ribosome proteins play a key role in regulating the macrophage response to LPS. Interestingly, conjoint analyses of the transcriptome and proteome in macrophages treated with LPS reveal that the genes upregulated at both the mRNA and protein levels are mainly involved in inflammation and the immune response, whereas the genes downregulated are significantly enriched in metabolism-related processes. These results not only provide a more comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms of inflammation mediated by bacterial infection but also provide a dynamic proteomic resource for further studies.
PXD016261	31877049	Evaluation of Tumor Interstitial Fluid-Extraction Methods for Proteome Analysis: Comparison of Biopsy Elution versus Centrifugation. 	Evaluation of tumor interstitial fluid-extraction methods for proteome analysis: comparison of biopsy elution versus centrifugation	Tumor interstitial fluid, centrifugation, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, elution, skin cancer, spin	The analysis of tumor interstitial fluid (TIF) composition is a valuable procedure to identify antimetastatic targets, and different laboratories have set up techniques for TIF isolation and proteomic analyses. However, those methods had never been compared in samples from the same tumor and patient. In this work, we compared the two most used methods, elution and centrifugation, in pieces of the same biopsy samples of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). First, we established that high G-force (10 000g) was required to obtain TIF from cSCC by centrifugation. Second, we compared the centrifugation method with the elution method in pieces of three different cSCC tumors. We found that the mean protein intensities based in the number of peptide spectrum matches was significantly higher in the centrifuged samples than in the eluted samples. Regarding the robustness of the methods, we observed higher overlapping between both methods (77-80%) than among samples (50%). These results suggest that there exists an elevated consistence of TIF composition independently of the method used. However, we observed a 3-fold increase of extracellular proteins in nonoverlapped proteome obtained by centrifugation. We therefore conclude that centrifugation is the method of choice to study the proteome of TIF from cutaneous biopsies.
PXD016687	31877322	Structural Insights Into PfARO and Characterization of its Interaction With PfAIP. 	BioID of Plasmodium falciparum rhophtry-neck associated protein (PfAIP) using BirA* fusion-protein	Malaria, Plasmodium, invasion, proximity-based biotinylation, rhoptries	Apicomplexan parasites contain rhoptries, which are specialized secretory organelles that coordinate host cell invasion. During the process of invasion, rhoptries secrete their contents to facilitate interaction with, and entry into, the host cell. Here, we report the crystal structure of the rhoptry protein Armadillo Repeats-Only (ARO) from the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum (PfARO). The structure of PfARO comprises five tandem Armadillo-like (ARM) repeats, with adjacent ARM repeats stacked in a head-to-tail orientation resulting in PfARO adopting an elongated curved shape. Interestingly, the concave face of PfARO contains two distinct patches of highly conserved residues that appear to play an important role in protein-protein interaction. We functionally characterized the P. falciparum homolog of ARO interacting protein (PfAIP) and demonstrate that it localizes to the rhoptries. We show that conditional mislocalization of PfAIP leads to deficient red blood cell invasion. Guided by the structure, we identified mutations of PfARO that lead to mislocalization of PfAIP. Using proximity-based biotinylation we probe into PfAIP interacting proteins.
PXD012389	31879271	Peptidomic Analysis of Urine from Youths with Early Type 1 Diabetes Reveals Novel Bioactivity of Uromodulin Peptides In Vitro. 	Urinary PRM analysis of early type 1 diabetes	kidney disease, peptidomics, type 1 diabetes, urine	Chronic hyperglycemia is known to disrupt the proteolytic milieu, initiating compensatory and maladaptive pathways in the diabetic kidney. Such changes in intrarenal proteolysis are captured by the urinary peptidome. To elucidate the early kidney response to chronic hyperglycemia, we conducted a peptidomic investigation into urines from otherwise healthy youths with type 1 diabetes and their non-diabetic peers using unbiased and targeted mass spectrometry-based techniques. This cross-sectional study included two separate cohorts for the discovery (n = 30) and internal validation (n = 30) of differential peptide excretion. Peptide bioactivity was predicted using PeptideRanker and subsequently verified in vitro Proteasix and the Nephroseq database were used to identify putative proteases responsible for peptide generation and examine their expression in diabetic nephropathy. A total of 6550 urinary peptides were identified in the discovery analysis. We further examined the subset of 162 peptides, which were quantified across all thirty samples. Of the 15 differentially excreted peptides (p < 0.05), seven derived from a C-terminal region ((589)SGSVIDQSRVLNLGPITRK(607)) of uromodulin, a kidney-specific protein. Increased excretion of five uromodulin peptides was replicated in the validation cohort using parallel reaction monitoring (p < 0.05). One of the validated peptides (SGSVIDQSRVLNLGPI) activated NFkappaB and AP-1 signaling, stimulated cytokine release, and enhanced neutrophil migration in vitro. In silico analyses highlighted several potential proteases such as hepsin, meprin A, and cathepsin B to be responsible for generating these peptides. In summary, we identified a urinary signature of uromodulin peptides associated with early type 1 diabetes before clinical manifestations of kidney disease and discovered novel bioactivity of uromodulin peptides in vitro Our present findings lay the groundwork for future studies to validate peptide excretion in larger and broader populations, to investigate the role of bioactive uromodulin peptides in high glucose conditions, and to examine proteases that cleave uromodulin.
PXD012922	31879272	Upregulation of CD73 Confers Acquired Radioresistance and is Required for Maintaining Irradiation-selected Pancreatic Cancer Cells in a Mesenchymal State. 	Upregulation of CD73 Confers Acquired Radioresistance and Is Required for Maintaining EMT in the Pancreatic Cancer Cells that Survive Fractionated Irradiation	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), CD73, EMT, Human Proteome Project, Pancreatic cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), apoptosis, radioresistance	The molecular mechanisms underlying exceptional radioresistance in pancreatic cancer remain elusive. In the present study, we established a stable radioresistant pancreatic cancer cell line MIA PaCa-2-R by exposing the parental MIA PaCa-2 cells to fractionated ionizing radiation (IR). Systematic proteomics and bioinformatics analysis of protein expression in MIA PaCa-2 and MIA PaCa-2-R cells revealed that several growth factor-/cytokine-mediated pathways, including the OSM/STAT3, PI3K/AKT, and MAPK/ERK pathways, were activated in the radioresistant cells, leading to inhibition of apoptosis and increased epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity. In addition, the radioresistant cells exhibited enhanced capabilities of DNA repair and antioxidant defense compared with the parental cells. We focused functional analysis on one of the most up-regulated proteins in the radioresistant cells, ecto-5'-nucleotidase (CD73), which is a cell surface protein that is overexpressed in different types of cancer. Ectopic overexpression of CD73 in the parental cells resulted in radioresistance and conferred resistance to IR-induced apoptosis. Knockdown of CD73 re-sensitized the radioresistant cells to IR and IR-induced apoptosis. The effect of CD73 on radioresistance and apoptosis is independent of the enzymatic activity of CD73. Further studies demonstrate that CD73 up-regulation promotes Ser-136 phosphorylation of the proapoptotic protein BAD and is required for maintaining the radioresistant cells in a mesenchymal state. Our findings suggest that expression alterations in the IR-selected pancreatic cancer cells result in hyperactivation of the growth factor/cytokine signaling that promotes epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity and enhancement of DNA repair. Our results also suggest that CD73, potentially a novel downstream factor of the enhanced growth factor/cytokine signaling, confers acquired radioresistance by inactivating proapoptotic protein BAD via phosphorylation of BAD at Ser-136 and by maintaining the radioresistant pancreatic cancer cells in a mesenchymal state.
PXD015332	31880004	Absolute proteomic quantification reveals design principles of sperm flagellar chemosensation. 	Signaling proteins of a chemosensory pathway from sperm of Arbacia punctulata	MudPIT, SDS-PAGE LC-MS/MS, sea urchin, signal transduction, sperm	Cilia serve as cellular antennae that translate sensory information into physiological responses. In the sperm flagellum, a single chemoattractant molecule can trigger a Ca(2+) rise that controls motility. The mechanisms underlying such ultra-sensitivity are ill-defined. Here, we determine by mass spectrometry the copy number of nineteen chemosensory signaling proteins in sperm flagella from the sea urchin Arbacia punctulata. Proteins are up to 1,000-fold more abundant than the free cellular messengers cAMP, cGMP, H(+) , and Ca(2+) . Opto-chemical techniques show that high protein concentrations kinetically compartmentalize the flagellum: Within milliseconds, cGMP is relayed from the receptor guanylate cyclase to a cGMP-gated channel that serves as a perfect chemo-electrical transducer. cGMP is rapidly hydrolyzed, possibly via "substrate channeling" from the channel to the phosphodiesterase PDE5. The channel/PDE5 tandem encodes cGMP turnover rates rather than concentrations. The rate-detection mechanism allows continuous stimulus sampling over a wide dynamic range. The textbook notion of signal amplification-few enzyme molecules process many messenger molecules-does not hold for sperm flagella. Instead, high protein concentrations ascertain messenger detection. Similar mechanisms may occur in other small compartments like primary cilia or dendritic spines.
PXD014608	31881116	Pressure Cycling Technology Assisted Mass Spectrometric Quantification of Gingival Tissue Reveals Proteome Dynamics during the Initiation and Progression of Inflammatory Periodontal Disease. 	PCT-assisted mass spectrometric quantification of gingival tissue reveals dynamics of protein synthesis during initiation and progression of inflammatory disease	Gingival tissue, PCT, experimental periodontitis, gingival inflammation, label-free quantitation, periodontitis, pressure cycling technology	Understanding the progression of periodontal tissue destruction is at the forefront of periodontal research. The authors aimed to capture the dynamics of gingival tissue proteome during the initiation and progression of experimental (ligature-induced) periodontitis in mice. Pressure cycling technology (PCT), a recently developed platform that uses ultra-high pressure to disrupt tissues, is utilized to achieve efficient and reproducible protein extraction from ultra-small amounts of gingival tissues in combination with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (MS). The MS data are processed using Progenesis QI and the regulated proteins are subjected to METACORE, STRING, and WebGestalt for functional enrichment analysis. A total of 1614 proteins with >=2 peptides are quantified with an estimated protein false discovery rate of 0.06%. Unsupervised clustering analysis shows that the gingival tissue protein abundance is mainly dependent on the periodontitis progression stage. Gene ontology enrichment analysis reveals an overrepresentation in innate immune regulation (e.g., neutrophil-mediated immunity and antimicrobial peptides), signal transduction (e.g., integrin signaling), and homeostasis processes (e.g., platelet activation and aggregation). In conclusion, a PCT-assisted label-free quantitative proteomics workflow that allowed cataloging the deepest gingival tissue proteome on a rapid timescale and provided novel mechanistic insights into host perturbation during periodontitis progression is applied.
PXD013703	31881239	Shotgun proteomics of Strongyloides venezuelensis infective third stage larvae: Insights into host-parasite interaction and novel targets for diagnostics. 	Composition analysis of Strongyloides venezuelensis Larvae proteome	Larvae, Strongyloides venezuelensis	Strongyloides venezuelensis is an important alternative source of antigen for the serologic diagnosis of human strongyloidiasis. Proteomics techniques applied to the analysis of the protein content of infective third stage larvae (iL3) of S. venezuelensis provide a powerful tool for the discovery of new candidates for immunodiagnosis. This study presents an overview of the protein iL3 S. venezuelensis focusing on the diagnosis of strongyloidiasis. A total of 877 proteins were identified by shotgun proteomics. Many of these proteins are involved in different cellular processes, metabolic as well as structural maintenance. Our results point to a catalog of possible diagnostic targets for human strongyloidiasis and highlight the need for evaluation of uncharacterized proteins, especially the proteins within the CAP domain, transthyretin, and BTPI inhibitor domains, as a repertoire as yet unexplored in the context of strongyloidiasis diagnostic markers. We believe that the protein profile presented in this shotgun analysis extends our understanding of the protein composition within the Strongyloides genus, opening up new perspectives for research on biomarkers that may help with the diagnosis of human strongyloidiasis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013703.
PXD009375	31882451	Direct visualization of degradation microcompartments at the ER membrane. 	Direct visualization of ERAD nanocompartments within the cell	ERAD electron microscopy	To promote the biochemical reactions of life, cells can compartmentalize molecular interaction partners together within separated non-membrane-bound regions. It is unknown whether this strategy is used to facilitate protein degradation at specific locations within the cell. Leveraging in situ cryo-electron tomography to image the native molecular landscape of the unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, we discovered that the cytosolic protein degradation machinery is concentrated within ~200-nm foci that contact specialized patches of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane away from the ER-Golgi interface. These non-membrane-bound microcompartments exclude ribosomes and consist of a core of densely clustered 26S proteasomes surrounded by a loose cloud of Cdc48. Active proteasomes in the microcompartments directly engage with putative substrate at the ER membrane, a function canonically assigned to Cdc48. Live-cell fluorescence microscopy revealed that the proteasome clusters are dynamic, with frequent assembly and fusion events. We propose that the microcompartments perform ER-associated degradation, colocalizing the degradation machinery at specific ER hot spots to enable efficient protein quality control.
PXD014553	31882456	Analysis of Soybean Long Non-Coding RNAs Reveals a Subset of Small Peptide-Coding Transcripts. 	Comprehensive Identification of Soybean Long Non-coding RNAs Reveals a Subset of Small Peptide-Coding Transcripts	Soybean, long non-coding RNA, small peptide, transcriptomics	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are defined as non-protein-coding transcripts that are at least 200 nucleotides long. They are known to play pivotal roles in regulating gene expression, especially during stress responses in plants. We used a large collection of in-house transcriptome data from various soybean (Glycine max and Glycine soja) tissues treated under different conditions to perform a comprehensive identification of soybean lncRNAs. We also retrieved publicly available soybean transcriptome data that were of sufficient quality and sequencing depth to enrich our analysis. In total, RNA-sequencing data of 332 samples were used for this analysis. An integrated reference-based, de novo transcript assembly was developed that identified ~69,000 lncRNA gene loci. We showed that lncRNAs are distinct from both protein-coding transcripts and genomic background noise in terms of length, number of exons, transposable element composition, and sequence conservation level across legume species. The tissue-specific and time-specific transcriptional responses of the lncRNA genes under some stress conditions may suggest their biological relevance. The transcription start sites of lncRNA gene loci tend to be close to their nearest protein-coding genes, and they may be transcriptionally related to the protein-coding genes, particularly for antisense and intronic lncRNAs. A previously unreported subset of small peptide-coding transcripts was identified from these lncRNA loci via tandem mass spectrometry, which paved the way for investigating their functional roles. Our results also highlight the present inadequacy of the bioinformatic definition of lncRNA, which excludes those lncRNA gene loci with small open reading frames from being regarded as protein-coding.
PXD014050	31882954	Fetal androgen exposure is a determinant of adult male metabolic health. 	The effects of fetal prenatal androgen and estrogenic exposure on the health of adult animals	androgens, estrogen, fetal programming, liver, plasma, sex differences, sheep	Androgen signalling is a critical driver of male development. Fetal steroid signalling can be dysregulated by a range of environmental insults and clinical conditions. We hypothesised that poor adult male health was partially attributable to aberrant androgen exposure during development. Testosterone was directly administered to developing male ovine fetuses to model excess prenatal androgenic overexposure associated with conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Such in utero androgen excess recreated the dyslipidaemia and hormonal profile observed in sons of PCOS patients. 1,084 of 15,134 and 408 of 2,766 quantifiable genes and proteins respectively, were altered in the liver during adolescence, attributable to fetal androgen excess. Furthermore, prenatal androgen excess predisposed to adolescent development of an intrahepatic cholestasis-like condition with attendant hypercholesterolaemia and an emergent pro-fibrotic, pro-oxidative stress gene and protein expression profile evident in both liver and circulation. We conclude that prenatal androgen excess is a previously unrecognised determinant of lifelong male metabolic health.
PXD014549	31883964	Exploring Targeted Degradation Strategy for Oncogenic KRAS(G12C). 	Exploring targeted degradation strategy for oncogenic KRASG12C	CRBN, KRAS, cancer PROTAC, crl4, oncogene, ubiquitin	KRAS is the most frequently mutated oncogene found in pancreatic, colorectal, and lung cancers. Although it has been challenging to identify targeted therapies for cancers harboring KRAS mutations, KRAS(G12C) can be targeted by small-molecule inhibitors that form covalent bonds with cysteine 12 (C12). Here, we designed a library of C12-directed covalent degrader molecules (PROTACs) and subjected them to a rigorous evaluation process to rapidly identify a lead compound. Our lead degrader successfully engaged CRBN in cells, bound KRAS(G12C)in vitro, induced CRBN/KRAS(G12C) dimerization, and degraded GFP-KRAS(G12C) in reporter cells in a CRBN-dependent manner. However, it failed to degrade endogenous KRAS(G12C) in pancreatic and lung cancer cells. Our data suggest that inability of the lead degrader to effectively poly-ubiquitinate endogenous KRAS(G12C) underlies the lack of activity. We discuss challenges for achieving targeted KRAS(G12C) degradation and proposed several possible solutions which may lead to efficient degradation of endogenous KRAS(G12C).
PXD015425	31884020	CFAP43 modulates ciliary beating in mouse and Xenopus. 	CFAP43 interactome mouse testis	interactome, protein complexes	Malfunctions of motile cilia cause a variety of developmental defects and diseases in humans and animal model organisms. Defects include impaired mucociliary clearance of the airways, sperm immotility, hydrocephalus and organ laterality. Here, we characterize the evolutionary conserved Cfap43 gene by loss-of-function experiments in the mouse and the frog Xenopus laevis. Cfap43 is expressed in tissues carrying motile cilia and acts as a target gene of the transcription factor FOXJ1, which is essential for the induction of motile ciliogenesis. We show that CFAP43, a protein of unknown biochemical function, localizes to the ciliary axoneme. CFAP43 is involved in the regulation of the beating frequency of tracheal cilia and loss of CFAP43 causes severe mucus accumulation in the nasal cavity. Likewise, morphant and crispant frog embryos revealed impaired function of motile cilia of the larval epidermis, a model for airway mucociliary epithelia. CFAP43 participates in the formation of flagellar axonemes during spermatogenesis as mice mutant for Cfap43 display male infertility, consistent with observations in male sterile patients. In addition, mice mutant for Cfap43 display early onset hydrocephalus. Together, these results confirm the role of CFAP43 in the male reproductive tract and pinpoint additional functions in airway epithelia mucus clearance and brain development.
PXD015203	31884793	Quantitative Proteome Responses to Oncolytic Reovirus in GM-CSF- and M-CSF-Differentiated Bone Marrow-Derived Cells. 	Quantitative Proteome Responses to Oncolytic Reovirus in GM-CSF and M-CSF-Differentiated Bone Marrow-Derived Cells	Antigen presentation/processing, anti-viral immune response, cell differentiation, macrophages, oncolytic viruses, quantitative proteomics, reovirus, viral defense	The efficacy of oncolytic viruses (OVs), such as reovirus, is dictated by host immune responses, including those mediated by the pro- versus anti-inflammatory macrophages. As such, a detailed understanding of the interaction between reovirus and different macrophage types is critical for therapeutic efficacy. To explore reovirus-macrophage interactions, we performed tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative temporal proteomics on mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) generated with two cytokines, macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) and granulocytic-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), representing anti- and proinflammatory macrophages, respectively. We quantified 6863 proteins across five time points in duplicate, comparing M-CSF (M-BMM) and GM-CSF (GM-BMM) in response to OV. We find that GM-BMMs have lower expression of key intrinsic proteins that facilitate an antiviral immune response, express higher levels of reovirus receptor protein JAM-A, and are more susceptible to oncolytic reovirus infection compared to M-BMMs. Interestingly, although M-BMMs are less susceptible to reovirus infection and subsequent cell death, they initiate an antireovirus adaptive T cell immune response comparable to that of GM-BMMs. Taken together, these data describe distinct proteome differences between these two macrophage populations in terms of their ability to mount antiviral immune responses.
PXD013453	31885202	R2-P2 rapid-robotic phosphoproteomics enables multidimensional cell signaling studies. 	R2-P2 rapid-robotic phosphoproteomics enables multidimensional cell signaling studies	ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, machine learning, phosphoproteomics / signaling / MAPK / mass spectrometry / SP3 / DIA/ R2-P2	Recent developments in proteomics have enabled signaling studies where > 10,000 phosphosites can be routinely identified and quantified. Yet, current analyses are limited in throughput, reproducibility, and robustness, hampering experiments that involve multiple perturbations, such as those needed to map kinase-substrate relationships, capture pathway crosstalks, and network inference analysis. To address these challenges, we introduce rapid-robotic phosphoproteomics (R2-P2), an end-to-end automated method that uses magnetic particles to process protein extracts to deliver mass spectrometry-ready phosphopeptides. R2-P2 is rapid, robust, versatile, and high-throughput. To showcase the method, we applied it, in combination with data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry, to study signaling dynamics in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in yeast. Our results reveal broad and specific signaling events along the mating, the high-osmolarity glycerol, and the invasive growth branches of the MAPK pathway, with robust phosphorylation of downstream regulatory proteins and transcription factors. Our method facilitates large-scale signaling studies involving hundreds of perturbations opening the door to systems-level studies aiming to capture signaling complexity.
PXD006316	31885275	Longitudinal Transcriptomic, Proteomic, and Metabolomic Analyses of Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck Graft-Inoculated with "Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus". 	Navel Leaf Early Detection -  Longitudinal transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses of Citrus sinensis (L	Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus, citrus, citrus greening, huanglongbing	"Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus" (CLas) is the bacterium associated with the citrus disease Huanglongbing (HLB). Current CLas detection methods are unreliable during presymptomatic infection, and understanding CLas pathogenicity to help develop new detection techniques is challenging because CLas has yet to be isolated in pure culture. To understand how CLas affects citrus metabolism and whether infected plants produce systemic signals that can be used to develop improved detection techniques, leaves from Washington Navel orange (Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck) plants were graft-inoculated with CLas and longitudinally studied using transcriptomics (RNA sequencing), proteomics (liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry), and metabolomics (proton nuclear magnetic resonance). Photosynthesis gene expression and protein levels were lower in infected plants compared to controls during late infection, and lower levels of photosynthesis proteins were identified as early as 8 weeks post-grafting. These changes coordinated with higher sugar concentrations, which have been shown to accumulate during HLB. Cell wall modification and degradation gene expression and proteins were higher in infected plants during late infection. Changes in gene expression and proteins related to plant defense were observed in infected plants as early as 8 weeks post-grafting. These results reveal coordinated changes in greenhouse navel leaves during CLas infection at the transcript, protein, and metabolite levels, which can inform of biomarkers of early infection.
PXD013717	31886415	Cyanidioschyzon merolae aurora kinase phosphorylates evolutionarily conserved sites on its target to regulate mitochondrial division. 	CmDnm1, in vitro phosphorylation by CmAUR	CmAUR, CmDnm1, Cyanidioschyzon merolae, phosphorylation	The mitochondrion is an organelle that was derived from an endosymbiosis. Although regulation of mitochondrial growth by the host cell is necessary for the maintenance of mitochondria, it is unclear how this regulatory mechanism was acquired. To address this, we studied the primitive unicellular red alga Cyanidioschyzon merolae, which has the simplest eukaryotic genome and a single mitochondrion. Here we show that the C. merolae Aurora kinase ortholog CmAUR regulates mitochondrial division through phosphorylation of mitochondrial division ring components. One of the components, the Drp1 ortholog CmDnm1, has at least four sites phosphorylated by CmAUR. Depletion of the phosphorylation site conserved among eukaryotes induced defects such as mitochondrial distribution on one side of the cell. Taken together with the observation that human Aurora kinase phosphorylates Drp1 in vitro, we suggest that the phosphoregulation is conserved from the simplest eukaryotes to mammals, and was acquired at the primitive stage of endosymbiosis.
PXD019400	31886770	Architecture of the chromatin remodeler RSC and insights into its nucleosome engagement. 	Architecture of the chromatin remodeler RSC and insights into its nucleosome engagement	yRSC CXMS Cryo-EM	Eukaryotic DNA is packaged into nucleosome arrays, which are repositioned by chromatin remodeling complexes to control DNA accessibility. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RSC (Remodeling the Structure of Chromatin) complex, a member of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeler family, plays critical roles in genome maintenance, transcription, and DNA repair. Here, we report cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) and crosslinking mass spectrometry (CLMS) studies of yeast RSC complex and show that RSC is composed of a rigid tripartite core and two flexible lobes. The core structure is scaffolded by an asymmetric Rsc8 dimer and built with the evolutionarily conserved subunits Sfh1, Rsc6, Rsc9 and Sth1. The flexible ATPase lobe, composed of helicase subunit Sth1, Arp7, Arp9 and Rtt102, is anchored to this core by the N-terminus of Sth1. Our cryo-EM analysis of RSC bound to a nucleosome core particle shows that in addition to the expected nucleosome-Sth1 interactions, RSC engages histones and nucleosomal DNA through one arm of the core structure, composed of the Rsc8 SWIRM domains, Sfh1 and Npl6. Our findings provide structural insights into the conserved assembly process for all members of the SWI/SNF family of remodelers, and illustrate how RSC selects, engages, and remodels nucleosomes.
PXD012051	31887112	Candida utilis yeast as a functional protein source for Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.): Local intestinal tissue and plasma proteome responses. 	Candida utilis as a protein source for Atlantic salmon	gene expression, histology, plasma proteome	Microbial ingredients such as Candida utilis yeast are known to be functional protein sources with immunomodulating effects whereas soybean meal causes soybean meal-induced enteritis in the distal intestine of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.). Inflammatory or immunomodulatory stimuli at the local level in the intestine may alter the plasma proteome profile of Atlantic salmon. These deviations can be helpful indicators for fish health and, therefore potential tools in the diagnosis of fish diseases. The present work aimed to identify local intestinal tissue responses and changes in plasma protein profiles of Atlantic salmon fed inactive dry Candida utilis yeast biomass, soybean meal, or combination of soybean meal based diet with various inclusion levels of Candida utilis. A fishmeal based diet was used as control diet. Inclusion of Candida utilis yeast to a fishmeal based diet did not alter the morphology, immune cell population or gene expression of the distal intestine. Lower levels of Candida utilis combined with soybean meal modulated immune cell populations in the distal intestine and reduced the severity of soybean meal-induced enteritis, while higher inclusion levels of Candida utilis were less effective. Changes in the plasma proteomic profile revealed differences between the diets but did not indicate any specific proteins that could be a marker for health or disease. The results suggest that Candida utilis does not alter intestinal morphology or induce major changes in plasma proteome, and thus could be a high-quality alternative protein source with potential functional properties in diets for Atlantic salmon.
PXD013678	31888749	Salivary gland proteome analysis of developing adult female Haemaphysalis longicornis ticks: molecular motor and TCA cycle-related proteins play an important role throughout development. 	Haemaphysalis longicornis salivary gland LC-MSMS	Haemaphysalis longicornis, salivary gland	BACKGROUND: Ticks are notorious blood-feeding arthropods that can spread a variety of deadly diseases. The salivary gland is an important organ for ticks to feed on blood, and this organ begins to develop rapidly when ixodid ticks suck blood. When these ticks reach a critical weight, the salivary glands stop developing and begin to degenerate. The expression levels of a large number of proteins during the development and degeneration of salivary glands change, which regulate the biological functions of the salivary glands. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge, there are only a few reports on the role of molecular motor and TCA cycle-related proteins in the salivary glands of ticks. RESULTS: We used iTRAQ quantitative proteomics to study the dynamic changes in salivary gland proteins in female Haemaphysalis longicornis at four feeding stages: unfed, partially fed, semi-engorged and engorged. Using bioinformatics methods to analyze the dynamic changes of a large number of proteins, we found that molecular motor and TCA cycle-related proteins play an important role in the physiological changes of the salivary glands. The results of RNAi experiments showed that when dynein, kinesin, isocitrate dehydrogenase and citrate synthase were knocked down independently, the weight of the engorged female ticks decreased by 63.5%, 54.9%, 42.6% and 48.6%, respectively, and oviposition amounts decreased by 83.1%, 76.0%, 50.8%, and 55.9%, respectively, and the size of type III acini of females salivary glands decreased by 35.6%, 33.3%, 28.9%, and 20.0%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: The results showed that the expression of different types of proteins change in different characteristics in salivary glands during the unfed to engorged process of female ticks. Corresponding expression changes of these proteins at different developmental stages of female ticks are very important to ensure the orderly development of the organ. By analyzing these changes, some proteins, such as molecular motor and TCA cycle-related proteins, were screened and RNAi carried out. When these mRNAs were knocked down, the female ticks cannot develop normally. The research results provide a new protein target for the control of ticks and tick-borne diseases.
PXD016647	31888964	Combining Precursor and Fragment Information for Improved Detection of Differential Abundance in Data Independent Acquisition. 	Combining Precursor and Fragment Information for Improved Detection of Differential Abundance in Data Independent Acquisition	DIA, MS1 MS2 quantification, controlled data sets	In bottom-up, label-free discovery proteomics, biological samples are acquired in a data-dependent (DDA) or data-independent (DIA) manner, with peptide signals recorded in an intact (MS1) and fragmented (MS2) form. While DDA has only the MS1 space for quantification, DIA contains both MS1 and MS2 at high quantitative quality. DIA profiles of complex biological matrices such as tissues or cells can contain quantitative interferences, and the interferences at the MS1 and the MS2 signals are often independent. When comparing biological conditions, the interferences can compromise the detection of differential peptide or protein abundance and lead to false positive or false negative conclusions.We hypothesized that the combined use of MS1 and MS2 quantitative signals could improve our ability to detect differentially abundant proteins. Therefore, we developed a statistical procedure incorporating both MS1 and MS2 quantitative information of DIA. We benchmarked the performance of the MS1-MS2-combined method to the individual use of MS1 or MS2 in DIA using four previously published controlled mixtures, as well as in two previously unpublished controlled mixtures. In the majority of the comparisons, the combined method outperformed the individual use of MS1 or MS2. This was particularly true for comparisons with low fold changes, few replicates, and situations where MS1 and MS2 were of similar quality. When applied to a previously unpublished investigation of lung cancer, the MS1-MS2-combined method increased the coverage of known activated pathways.Since recent technological developments continue to increase the quality of MS1 signals (e.g. using the BoxCar scan mode for Orbitrap instruments), the combination of the MS1 and MS2 information has a high potential for future statistical analysis of DIA data.
PXD008320	31889914	The interactome and proteomic responses of ALKBH7 in cell lines by in-depth proteomics analysis. 	ALKBH7, a mitochondrial member of AlkB family, binds histones in vitro, part 3	ALKBH7, histone, mitochondrion	BACKGROUND: ALKBH7 is a mitochondrial protein, involved in programmed necrosis, fatty acid metabolism, cell cycle regulation, and prostate cancer disease. However, the exact roles of ALKBH7 and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain mysterious. Thus, investigations of the interactome and proteomic responses of ALKBH7 in cell lines using proteomics strategies are urgently required. METHODS: In the present study, we investigated the interactome of ALKBH7 in mitochondria through immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (IP-MS/MS). Additionally, we established the ALKBH7 knockdown and overexpression cell lines and further identified the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in these cell lines by TMT-based MS/MS. Two DEPs (UQCRH and HMGN1) were validated by western blotting analysis. RESULTS: Through bioinformatic analysis the proteomics data, we found that ALKBH7 was involved in protein homeostasis and cellular immunity, as well as cell proliferation, lipid metabolism, and programmed necrosis by regulating the expression of PTMA, PTMS, UQCRH, HMGN1, and HMGN2. Knockdown of ALKBH7 resulted in upregulation of UQCRH and HMGN1 expression, and the opposite pattern of expression was detected in ALKBH7 overexpression cell lines; these results were consistent with our proteomics data. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that the expression of UQCRH and HMGN1 is regulated by ALKBH7, which provides potential directions for future studies of ALKBH7. Furthermore, our results also provide comprehensive insights into the molecular mechanisms and pathways associated with ALKBH7.
PXD008181	31889939	Quantitative proteome analysis of Merkel cell carcinoma cell lines using SILAC. 	Proteome analysis of Merkel cell carcinoma cell lines using SILAC	Merkel cell, SILAC, carcinoma	BACKGROUND: Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is an aggressive neuroendocrine tumour of the skin with growing incidence. To better understand the biology of this malignant disease, immortalized cell lines are used in research for in vitro experiments. However, a comprehensive quantitative proteome analysis of these cell lines has not been performed so far. METHODS: Stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) was applied to six MCC cell lines (BroLi, MKL-1, MKL-2, PeTa, WaGa, and MCC13). Following tryptic digest of labelled proteins, peptides were analysed by mass spectrometry. Proteome patterns of MCC cell lines were compared to the proteome profile of an immortalized keratinocyte cell line (HaCaT). RESULTS: In total, 142 proteins were upregulated and 43 proteins were downregulated. Altered proteins included mitoferrin-1, histone H2A type 1-H, protein-arginine deiminase type-6, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins A2/B1, protein SLX4IP and clathrin light chain B. Furthermore, several proteins of the histone family and their variants were highly abundant in MCC cell lines. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study present a new protein map of MCC and provide deeper insights in the biology of MCC. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD008181.
PXD012015	31890553	Quick and clean: Cracking sentences encoded in E. coli by LC-MS/MS, de novo sequencing, and dictionary search. 	Quick and clean: Cracking E.coli's code by LC-MS/MS, de novo sequencing, and dictionary search	E.Coli, de novo sequencing	In this study, we faced the challenge of deciphering a protein that has been designed and expressed by E. coli in such a way that the amino acid sequence encodes two concatenated English sentences. The letters 'O' and 'U' in the sentence are both replaced by 'K' in the protein. The sequence cannot be found online and carried to-be-discovered modifications. With limited information in hand, to solve the challenge, we developed a workflow consisting of bottom-up proteomics, de novo sequencing and a bioinformatics pipeline for data processing and searching for frequently appearing words. We assembled a complete first question: "Have you ever wondered what the most fundamental limitations in life are?" and validated the result by sequence database search against a customized FASTA file. We also searched the spectra against an E. coli proteome database and found close to 600 endogenous, co-purified E. coli proteins and contaminants introduced during sample handling, which made the inference of the sentence very challenging. We conclude that E. coli can express English sentences, and that de novo sequencing combined with clever sequence database search strategies is a promising tool for the identification of uncharacterized proteins.
PXD014238	31891113	The Arabidopsis thaliana N-recognin E3 ligase PROTEOLYSIS1 influences the immune response. 	Quantitative proteome analysis of the Arabidopsis thaliana N-degron pathway E3 ligase mutant, prt1-1.	N-degron pathway PRT1 leaves TMT- labelling	N-degron pathways of ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis (formerly known as the N-end rule pathway) control the stability of substrate proteins dependent on the amino-terminal (Nt) residue. Unlike yeast or mammalian N-recognin E3 ligases, which each recognize several different classes of Nt residues, in Arabidopsis thaliana, N-recognin functions of different N-degron pathways are carried out independently by PROTEOLYSIS (PRT)1, PRT6, and other unknown proteins. PRT1 recognizes type 2 aromatic Nt-destabilizing residues and PRT6 recognizes type 1 basic residues. These two N-recognin functions diverged as separate proteins early in the evolution of plants, before the conquest of the land. We demonstrate that loss of PRT1 function promotes the plant immune system, as mutant prt1-1 plants showed greater apoplastic resistance than WT to infection by the bacterial hemi-biotroph Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato (Pst) DC3000. Quantitative proteomics revealed increased accumulation of proteins associated with specific components of plant defense in the prt1-1 mutant, concomitant with increased accumulation of salicylic acid. The effects of the prt1 mutation were additional to known effects of prt6 in influencing the immune system, in particular, an observed over-accumulation of pipecolic acid (Pip) in the double-mutant prt1-1 prt6-1. These results demonstrate a potential role for PRT1 in controlling aspects of the plant immune system and suggest that PRT1 limits the onset of the defense response via degradation of substrates with type 2 Nt-destabilizing residues.
PXD014664	31892161	The Acute Phase Response Is a Prominent Renal Proteome Change in Sepsis in Mice. 	Proteomic analysis of septic renal acute phase response	kidney, lipopolysaccharide, sepsis	(1) Background: Sepsis-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) is the most common form of acute kidney injury (AKI). We studied the temporal profile of the sepsis-induced renal proteome changes. (2) Methods: Male mice were injected intraperitoneally with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or saline (control). Renal proteome was studied by LC-MS/MS (ProteomeXchange: PXD014664) at the early phase (EP, 1.5 and 6 h after 40 mg/kg LPS) and the late phase (LP, 24 and 48 h after 10 mg/kg LPS) of LPS-induced AKI. Renal mRNA expression of acute phase proteins (APP) was assessed by qPCR. (3) Results: Renal proteome change was milder in EP vs. LP. APPs dominated the proteome in LP (proteins upregulated at least 4-fold (APPs/all): EP, 1.5 h: 0/10, 6 h: 1/10; LP, 24 h: 22/47, 48 h: 17/44). Lipocalin-2, complement C3, fibrinogen, haptoglobin and hemopexin were the most upregulated APPs. Renal mRNA expression preceded the APP changes with peak effects at 24 h, and indicated renal production of the majority of APPs. (4) Conclusions: Gene expression analysis revealed local production of APPs that commenced a few hours post injection and peaked at 24 h. This is the first demonstration of a massive, complex and coordinated acute phase response of the kidney involving several proteins not identified previously.
PXD013765	31892524	The Challenge of Classifying Metastatic Cell Properties by Molecular Profiling Exemplified with Cutaneous Melanoma Cells and Their Cerebral Metastasis from Patient Derived Mouse Xenografts. 	Multi omics evaluation of cutaneous melanoma cells and their cerebral metastasis from patient derived mouse xenografts suggest individually distinct adaptation strategies	brain metastasis, eicosanoids, melanoma, proteome profiling, xenograft model	The prediction of metastatic properties from molecular analyses still poses a major challenge. Here we aimed at the classification of metastasis-related cell properties by proteome profiling making use of cutaneous and brain-metastasizing variants from single melanomas sharing the same genetic ancestry. Previous experiments demonstrated that cultured cells derived from these xenografted variants maintain a stable phenotype associated with a differential metastatic behavior: The brain metastasizing variants produce more spontaneous micro-metastases than the corresponding cutaneous variants. Four corresponding pairs of cutaneous and metastatic cells were obtained from four individual patients, resulting in eight cell-lines presently investigated. Label free proteome profiling revealed significant differences between corresponding pairs of cutaneous and cerebellar metastases from the same patient. Indeed, each brain metastasizing variant expressed several apparently metastasis-associated proteomic alterations as compared with the corresponding cutaneous variant. Among the differentially expressed proteins we identified cell adhesion molecules, immune regulators, epithelial to mesenchymal transition markers, stem cell markers, redox regulators and cytokines. Similar results were observed regarding eicosanoids, considered relevant for metastasis, such as PGE2 and 12-HETE. Multiparametric morphological analysis of cells also revealed no characteristic alterations associated with the cutaneous and brain metastasis variants. However, no correct classification regarding metastatic potential was yet possible with the present data. We thus concluded that molecular profiling is able to classify cells according to known functional categories but is not yet able to predict relevant cell properties emerging from networks consisting of many interconnected molecules. The presently observed broad diversity of molecular patterns, irrespective of restricting to one tumor type and two main classes of metastasis, highlights the important need to develop meta-analysis strategies to predict cell properties from molecular profiling data. Such base knowledge will greatly support future individualized precision medicine approaches.
PXD010148	31893310	Integrative genomics reveal a role for MCPIP1 in adipogenesis and adipocyte metabolism. 	Integrative genomics reveal a role for MCPIP1 in adipogenesis and adipocyte metabolism	MCPIP1, adipocytes, adipogenesis	Obesity is considered a serious chronic disease, associated with an increased risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1-induced protein-1 (MCPIP1) is an RNase decreasing stability of transcripts coding for inflammation-related proteins. In addition, MCPIP1 plays an important role in the regulation of adipogenesis in vitro by reducing the expression of key transcription factors, including C/EBPbeta. To elucidate the role of MCPIP1 in adipocyte biology, we performed RNA-Seq and proteome analysis in 3T3-L1 adipocytes overexpressing wild-type (WTMCPIP1) and the mutant form of MCPIP1 protein (D141NMCPIP1). Our RNA-Seq analysis followed by confirmatory Q-RT-PCR revealed that elevated MCPIP1 levels in 3T3-L1 adipocytes upregulated transcripts encoding proteins involved in signal transmission and cellular remodeling and downregulated transcripts of factors involved in metabolism. These data are consistent with our proteomic analysis, which showed that MCPIP1 expressing adipocytes exhibit upregulation of proteins involved in cellular organization and movement and decreased levels of proteins involved in lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. Moreover, MCPIP1 adipocytes are characterized by decreased level of insulin receptor, reduced insulin-induced Akt phosphorylation, as well as depleted Glut4 level and impaired glucose uptake. Overexpression of Glut4 in 3T3-L1 cells expressed WTMCPIP1 rescued adipogenesis. Interestingly, we found decreased level of MCPIP1 along with an increase in body mass index in subcutaneous adipose tissue. The presented data show a novel role of MCPIP1 in modulating insulin sensitivity in adipocytes. Overall, our findings demonstrate that MCPIP1 is an important regulator of adipogenesis and adipocyte metabolism.
PXD016325	31895568	Integrating Serum Protein Electrophoresis with Mass Spectrometry, A New Workflow for M-Protein Detection and Quantification. 	Integrating serum protein electrophoresis with mass spectrometry, a new workflow for M-protein detection and quantification	M-protein, immunofixation electrophoresis, multiple myeloma, serum protein electrophoresis, targeted mass spectrometry	Serum protein electrophoresis (SPE) and immunofixation electrophoresis (IFE) are standard tools for multiple myeloma (MM) routine diagnostics. M-protein is a biomarker for MM that can be quantified with SPE and characterized with IFE. We have investigated combining SPE/IFE with targeted mass spectrometry (MS) to detect and quantify the M-protein. SPE-MS assay offers the possibility to detect M-protein with higher sensitivity than SPE/IFE, which could lead to better analysis of minimal residual disease in clinical laboratories. In addition, analysis of archived SPE gels could be used for retrospective MM studies. We have investigated two different approaches of measuring M-protein and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (t-mAbs) from SPE/IFE gels. After extracting proteotypic peptides from the gel, they can be quantified using stable isotope labeled (SIL) peptides and measured by Orbitrap mass spectrometry. Alternatively, extracted peptides can be labeled with tandem mass tags (TMT). Both approaches are not hampered by the presence of t-mAbs. Using SIL peptides, limit of detection of the M-protein is approximately 100-fold better than with routine SPE/IFE. Using TMT labeling, M-protein can be compared in different samples from the same patient. We have successfully measured M-protein proteotypic peptides extracted from the SPE/IFE gels utilizing SIL peptides and TMT.
PXD013349	31895944	ELF5 modulates the estrogen receptor cistrome in breast cancer. 	ETS transcription factor ELF5 modulates estrogen action in breast cancer via participation in FOXA1-ER driven transcription	Breast Cancer, RIME, estrogen activation	Acquired resistance to endocrine therapy is responsible for half of the therapeutic failures in the treatment of breast cancer. Recent findings have implicated increased expression of the ETS transcription factor ELF5 as a potential modulator of estrogen action and driver of endocrine resistance, and here we provide the first insight into the mechanisms by which ELF5 modulates estrogen sensitivity. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing we found that ELF5 binding overlapped with FOXA1 and ER at super enhancers, enhancers and promoters, and when elevated, caused FOXA1 and ER to bind to new regions of the genome, in a pattern that replicated the alterations to the ER/FOXA1 cistrome caused by the acquisition of resistance to endocrine therapy. RNA sequencing demonstrated that these changes altered estrogen-driven patterns of gene expression, the expression of ER transcription-complex members, and 6 genes known to be involved in driving the acquisition of endocrine resistance. Using rapid immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of endogenous proteins, and proximity ligation assays, we found that ELF5 interacted physically with members of the ER transcription complex, such as DNA-PKcs. We found 2 cases of endocrine-resistant brain metastases where ELF5 levels were greatly increased and ELF5 patterns of gene expression were enriched, compared to the matched primary tumour. Thus ELF5 alters ER-driven gene expression by modulating the ER/FOXA1 cistrome, by interacting with it, and by modulating the expression of members of the ER transcriptional complex, providing multiple mechanisms by which ELF5 can drive endocrine resistance.
PXD016022	31896573	Mass spectrometry-based selectivity profiling identifies a highly selective inhibitor of the kinase MELK that delays mitotic entry in cancer cells. 	Determining MELK inhibitor specificity using MIB/MS	LFQ, chemoproteomics, kinase enrichment	The maternal embryonic leucine zipper kinase (MELK) has been implicated in the regulation of cancer cell proliferation. RNAi-mediated MELK depletion impairs growth and causes G2/M arrest in numerous cancers, but the mechanisms underlying these effects are poorly understood. Furthermore, the MELK inhibitor OTSSP167 has recently been shown to have poor selectivity for MELK, complicating the use of this inhibitor as a tool compound to investigate MELK function. Here, using a cell-based proteomics technique called multiplexed kinase inhibitor beads/mass spectrometry (MIB/MS), we profiled the selectivity of two additional MELK inhibitors, NVS-MELK8a (8a) and HTH-01-091. Our results revealed that 8a is a highly selective MELK inhibitor, which we further used for functional studies. Resazurin and crystal violet assays indicated that 8a decreases triple-negative breast cancer cell viability, and immunoblotting revealed that impaired growth is due to perturbation of cell cycle progression rather than induction of apoptosis. Using double-thymidine synchronization and immunoblotting, we observed that MELK inhibition delays mitotic entry, which was associated with delayed activation of Aurora A, Aurora B, and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1). Following this delay, cells entered and completed mitosis. Using live-cell microscopy of cells harboring fluorescent proliferating cell nuclear antigen, we confirmed that 8a significantly and dose-dependently lengthens G2 phase. Collectively, our results provide a rationale for using 8a as a tool compound for functional studies of MELK and indicate that MELK inhibition delays mitotic entry, likely via transient G2/M checkpoint activation.
PXD016875	31896586	An anticancer gold(III)-activated porphyrin scaffold that covalently modifies protein cysteine thiols. 	An Anti-Cancer Gold(III)-Activated Porphyrin Scaffold that Covalently Modifies Protein Cysteine Thiols	Gold  Porphyrin  Ligand Reactivity Cysteine Thiol Conjugation  Anti-tumor Agents	Cysteine thiols of many cancer-associated proteins are attractive targets of anticancer agents. Herein, we unequivocally demonstrate a distinct thiol-targeting property of gold(III) mesoporphyrin IX dimethyl ester (AuMesoIX) and its anticancer activities. While the binding of cysteine thiols with metal complexes usually occurs via M-S bond formation, AuMesoIX is unique in that the meso-carbon atom of the porphyrin ring is activated by the gold(III) ion to undergo nucleophilic aromatic substitution with thiols. AuMesoIX was shown to modify reactive cysteine residues and inhibit the activities of anticancer protein targets including thioredoxin, peroxiredoxin, and deubiquitinases. Treatment of cancer cells with AuMesoIX resulted in the formation of gold-bound sulfur-rich protein aggregates, oxidative stress-mediated cytotoxicity, and accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins. Importantly, AuMesoIX exhibited effective antitumor activity in mice. Our study has uncovered a gold(III)-induced ligand scaffold reactivity for thiol targeting that can be exploited for anticancer applications.
PXD010469	31896675	Characterizing Patients with Recurrent Urinary Tract Infections in Vesicoureteral Reflux: A Pilot Study of the Urinary Proteome. 	Human Urinary Proteome in Vesicoureteral Reflux	kidney damage, urinary tract infection, urine, vesicoureteral reflux	Recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs) pose a significant burden on the health care system. Underlying mechanisms predisposing children to UTIs and associated changes in the urinary proteome are not well understood. We aimed to investigate the urinary proteome of a subset of children who have vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) and recurrent UTIs because of their risk of developing infection-related renal damage. Improving diagnostic modalities to identify UTI risk factors would significantly alter the clinical management of children with VUR. We profiled the urinary proteomes of 22 VUR patients with low grade VUR (1-3 out of 5), a history of recurrent UTIs, and renal scarring, comparing them to those obtained from 22 age-matched controls. Urinary proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry followed by protein quantitation based on spectral counting. Of the 2,551 proteins identified across both cohorts, 964 were robustly quantified, as defined by meeting criteria with spectral count (SC) >=2 in at least 7 patients in either VUR or control cohort. Eighty proteins had differential expression between the two cohorts, with 44 proteins significantly up-regulated and 36 downregulated (q <0.075, FC >=1.2). Urinary proteins involved in inflammation, acute phase response (APR), modulation of extracellular matrix (ECM), and carbohydrate metabolism were altered among the study cohort.
PXD015118	31896676	Concentration Determination of >200 Proteins in Dried Blood Spots for Biomarker Discovery and Validation. 	Multiplexed MRM concentration measurements of >200 endogenous proteins in dried blood spots for biomarker discovery and validation	DBS, MRM, concentration, protein, spike in	The use of protein biomarkers as surrogates for clinical endpoints requires extensive multilevel validation including development of robust and sensitive assays for precise measurement of protein concentration. Multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) is a well-established mass-spectrometric method that can be used for reproducible protein-concentration measurements in biological specimens collected via microsampling. The dried blood spot (DBS) microsampling technique can be performed non-invasively without the expertise of a phlebotomist, and can enhance analyte stability which facilitate the application of this technique in retrospective studies while providing lower storage and shipping costs, because cold-chain logistics can be eliminated. Thus, precise, sensitive, and multiplexed methods for measuring protein concentrations in DBSs can be used for de novo biomarker discovery and for biomarker quantification or verification experiments. To achieve this goal, MRM assays were developed for multiplexed concentration measurement of proteins in DBSs.The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was found to have a median total coefficient of variation (CV) of 18% for 245 proteins, whereas the median LLOQ was 5 fmol of peptide injected on column, and the median inter-day CV over 4 days for measuring endogenous protein concentration was 8%. The majority (88%) of the assays displayed parallelism, whereas the peptide standards remained stable throughout the assay workflow and after exposure to multiple freeze-thaw cycles. For 190 proteins, the measured protein concentrations remained stable in DBS stored at ambient laboratory temperature for up to 2 months. Finally, the developed assays were used to measure the concentration ranges for 200 proteins in twenty same sex, same race and age matched individuals.
PXD008219	31896710	A Kelch13-defined endocytosis pathway mediates artemisinin resistance in malaria parasites. 	Plasmodium falciparum Kelch13, Eps15 and Clathrin HC interactomes obtained using a dimerisation-induced quantitative BioID (DiQ-BioID)	Artemisinin resistance, Clathrin HC, Eps15, Kelch13, Plasmodium falciparum, Vesicle trafficking, dimerisation-induced quantitative BioID (DiQ-BioID)	Artemisinin and its derivatives (ARTs) are the frontline drugs against malaria, but resistance is jeopardizing their effectiveness. ART resistance is mediated by mutations in the parasite's Kelch13 protein, but Kelch13 function and its role in resistance remain unclear. In this study, we identified proteins located at a Kelch13-defined compartment. Inactivation of eight of these proteins, including Kelch13, rendered parasites resistant to ART, revealing a pathway critical for resistance. Functional analysis showed that these proteins are required for endocytosis of hemoglobin from the host cell. Parasites with inactivated Kelch13 or a resistance-conferring Kelch13 mutation displayed reduced hemoglobin endocytosis. ARTs are activated by degradation products of hemoglobin. Hence, reduced activity of Kelch13 and its interactors diminishes hemoglobin endocytosis and thereby ART activation, resulting in parasite resistance.
PXD015791	31896749	In vivo functional analysis of non-conserved human lncRNAs associated with cardiometabolic traits. 	LINC01018 Pulldown LCMS protein identification		Unlike protein-coding genes, the majority of human long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are considered non-conserved. Although lncRNAs have been shown to function in diverse pathophysiological processes in mice, it remains largely unknown whether human lncRNAs have such in vivo functions. Here, we describe an integrated pipeline to define the in vivo function of non-conserved human lncRNAs. We first identify lncRNAs with high function potential using multiple indicators derived from human genetic data related to cardiometabolic traits, then define lncRNA's function and specific target genes by integrating its correlated biological pathways in humans and co-regulated genes in a humanized mouse model. Finally, we demonstrate that the in vivo function of human-specific lncRNAs can be successfully examined in the humanized mouse model, and experimentally validate the predicted function of an obesity-associated lncRNA, LINC01018, in regulating the expression of genes in fatty acid oxidation in humanized livers through its interaction with RNA-binding protein HuR.
PXD013434	31897430	The long noncoding RNA neuroLNC regulates presynaptic activity by interacting with the neurodegeneration-associated protein TDP-43. 	The long noncoding RNA neuroLNC modulates neurotransmitter release interacting with a neurodegeneration-associated protein	ELLPs, Protein lifetimes, brain turnover, cerebellum, cortex, glia, metabolic labeling, neuron	The cellular and the molecular mechanisms by which long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) may regulate presynaptic function and neuronal activity are largely unexplored. Here, we established an integrated screening strategy to discover lncRNAs implicated in neurotransmitter and synaptic vesicle release. With this approach, we identified neuroLNC, a neuron-specific nuclear lncRNA conserved from rodents to humans. NeuroLNC is tuned by synaptic activity and influences several other essential aspects of neuronal development including calcium influx, neuritogenesis, and neuronal migration in vivo. We defined the molecular interactors of neuroLNC in detail using chromatin isolation by RNA purification, RNA interactome analysis, and protein mass spectrometry. We found that the effects of neuroLNC on synaptic vesicle release require interaction with the RNA-binding protein TDP-43 (TAR DNA binding protein-43) and the selective stabilization of mRNAs encoding for presynaptic proteins. These results provide the first proof of an lncRNA that orchestrates neuronal excitability by influencing presynaptic function.
PXD015694	31898871	p300 and cAMP response element-binding protein-binding protein in skeletal muscle homeostasis, contractile function, and survival. 	p300 and CBP are essential for skeletal muscle homeostasis, contractile function and survival	Acetylation, acetyltransferases, muscle contraction, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Reversible epsilon-amino acetylation of lysine residues regulates transcription as well as metabolic flux; however, roles for specific lysine acetyltransferases in skeletal muscle physiology and function are unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of the related acetyltransferases p300 and cAMP response element-binding protein-binding protein (CBP) in skeletal muscle transcriptional homeostasis and physiology in adult mice. METHODS: Mice with skeletal muscle-specific and inducible knockout of p300 and CBP (PCKO) were generated by crossing mice with a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase expressed under the human alpha-skeletal actin promoter with mice having LoxP sites flanking exon 9 of the Ep300 and Crebbp genes. Knockout of PCKO was induced at 13-15 weeks of age via oral gavage of tamoxifen for 5 days to both PCKO and littermate control [wildtype (WT)] mice. Body composition, food intake, and muscle function were assessed on day 0 (D0) through 5 (D5). Microarray and tandem mass tag mass spectrometry analyses were performed to assess global RNA and protein levels in skeletal muscle of PCKO and WT mice. RESULTS: At D5 after initiating tamoxifen treatment, there was a reduction in body weight (-15%), food intake (-78%), stride length (-46%), and grip strength (-45%) in PCKO compared with WT mice. Additionally, ex vivo contractile function [tetanic tension (kPa)] was severely impaired in PCKO vs. WT mice at D3 (~70-80% lower) and D5 (~80-95% lower) and resulted in lethality within 1 week-a phenotype that is reversed by the presence of a single allele of either p300 or CBP. The impaired muscle function in PCKO mice was paralleled by substantial transcriptional alterations (3310 genes; false discovery rate < 0.1), especially in gene networks central to muscle contraction and structural integrity. This transcriptional uncoupling was accompanied by changes in protein expression patterns indicative of impaired muscle function, albeit to a smaller magnitude (446 proteins; fold-change > 1.25; false discovery rate < 0.1). CONCLUSIONS: These data reveal that p300 and CBP are required for the control and maintenance of contractile function and transcriptional homeostasis in skeletal muscle and, ultimately, organism survival. By extension, modulating p300/CBP function may hold promise for the treatment of disorders characterized by impaired contractile function in humans.
PXD015466	31900314	AMPK Interactome Reveals New Function in Non-homologous End Joining DNA Repair. 	Interactome of AMPK complex study using TAP-MS	AMPK, Interactome, TAP	Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an obligate heterotrimer that consists of a catalytic subunit (alpha) and two regulatory subunits (beta and gamma). AMPK is a key enzyme in the regulation of cellular energy homeostasis. It has been well studied and is known to function in many cellular pathways. However, the interactome of AMPK has not yet been systematically established, although protein-protein interaction is critically important for protein function and regulation. Here, we used tandem-affinity purification, coupled with mass spectrometry (TAP-MS) analysis, to determine the interactome of AMPK and its functions. We conducted a TAP-MS analysis of all seven AMPK subunits. We identified 138 candidate high-confidence interacting proteins (HCIPs) of AMPK, which allowed us to build an interaction network of AMPK complexes. Five candidate AMPK-binding proteins were experimentally validated, underlining the reliability of our data set. Furthermore, we demonstrated that AMPK acts with a strong AMPK-binding protein, Artemis, in non-homologous end joining. Collectively, our study established the first AMPK interactome and uncovered a new function of AMPK in DNA repair.
PXD016272	31900387	Mapping axon initial segment structure and function by multiplexed proximity biotinylation. 	Mapping Axon Initial Segment Structure and Function by Iterative Proximity Biotinylation	BioID, axon initial segments	Axon initial segments (AISs) generate action potentials and regulate the polarized distribution of proteins, lipids, and organelles in neurons. While the mechanisms of AIS Na(+) and K(+) channel clustering are understood, the molecular mechanisms that stabilize the AIS and control neuronal polarity remain obscure. Here, we use proximity biotinylation and mass spectrometry to identify the AIS proteome. We target the biotin-ligase BirA* to the AIS by generating fusion proteins of BirA* with NF186, Ndel1, and Trim46; these chimeras map the molecular organization of AIS intracellular membrane, cytosolic, and microtubule compartments. Our experiments reveal a diverse set of biotinylated proteins not previously reported at the AIS. We show many are located at the AIS, interact with known AIS proteins, and their loss disrupts AIS structure and function. Our results provide conceptual insights and a resource for AIS molecular organization, the mechanisms of AIS stability, and polarized trafficking in neurons.
PXD016219	31900388	Polar recruitment of RLD by LAZY1-like protein during gravity signaling in root branch angle control. 	LZY-interacting proteins in Arabidopsis	LZY, gravitropism	In many plant species, roots maintain specific growth angles relative to the direction of gravity, known as gravitropic set point angles (GSAs). These contribute to the efficient acquisition of water and nutrients. AtLAZY1/LAZY1-LIKE (LZY) genes are involved in GSA control by regulating auxin flow toward the direction of gravity in Arabidopsis. Here, we demonstrate that RCC1-like domain (RLD) proteins, identified as LZY interactors, are essential regulators of polar auxin transport. We show that interaction of the CCL domain of LZY with the BRX domain of RLD is important for the recruitment of RLD from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane by LZY. A structural analysis reveals the mode of the interaction as an intermolecular beta-sheet in addition to the structure of the BRX domain. Our results offer a molecular framework in which gravity signal first emerges as polarized LZY3 localization in gravity-sensing cells, followed by polar RLD1 localization and PIN3 relocalization to modulate auxin flow.
PXD016160	31901078	14-3-3 proteins protect AMPK-phosphorylated ten-eleven translocation-2 (TET2) from PP2A-mediated dephosphorylation. 	14-3-3 protects AMPK phosphorylated TET2 from dephosphorylation by PP2A	14-3-3, 5hmC, AMPK, PP2A, Post-translational modification, TET2	Ten-eleven translocation-2 (TET2) is a member of the methylcytosine dioxygenase family of enzymes and has been implicated in cancer and aging because of its role as a global epigenetic modifier. TET2 has a large N-terminal domain and a catalytic C-terminal region. Previous reports have demonstrated that the TET2 catalytic domain remains active independently of the N-terminal domain. As such, the function of the N terminus of this large protein remains poorly characterized. Here, using yeast two-hybrid screening, co-immunoprecipitation, and several biochemical assays, we found that several isoforms of the 14-3-3 family of proteins bind TET2. 14-3-3 proteins bound TET2 when it was phosphorylated at Ser-99. In particular, we observed that AMP-activated protein kinase-mediated phosphorylation at Ser-99 promotes TET2 stability and increases global DNA 5-hydroxymethylcytosine levels. The interaction of 14-3-3 proteins with TET2 protected the Ser-99 phosphorylation, and disruption of this interaction both reduced TET2 phosphorylation and decreased TET2 stability. Furthermore, we noted that protein phosphatase 2A can interact with TET2 and dephosphorylate Ser-99. Collectively, these results provide detailed insights into the role of the TET2 N-terminal domain in TET2 regulation. Moreover, they reveal the dynamic nature of TET2 protein regulation that could have therapeutic implications for disease states resulting from reduced TET2 levels or activity.
PXD016378	31901862	Tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 1 as a novel tumor suppressor through selective downregulation of CSNK2B blocks nuclear factor-kappaB activation in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 1 as a novel tumor suppressor through selective downregulation of CSNK2B blocks Nuclear Factor-B activation in hepatocellular carcinoma	Hepatocellular carcinoma, Nuclear factor-B, Protein kinase casein kinase II beta, Tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 1, Tumor suppressor	BACKGROUND: Tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 1 (TNFAIP1) is frequently downregulated in cancer cell lines and promotes cancer cell apoptosis. However, its role, clinical significance and molecular mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are unknown. METHODS: The expression of TNFAIP1 in HCC tumor tissues and cell lines was measured by Western blot and immunohistochemistry. The effects of TNFAIP1 on HCC proliferation, apoptosis, metastasis, angiogenesis and tumor formation were evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8), Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP Nick-End Labeling (TUNEL), transwell, tube formation assay in vitro and nude mice experiments in vivo. The interaction between TNFAIP1 and CSNK2B was validated by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), Co-immunoprecipitation and Western blot. The mechanism of how TNFAIP1 regulated nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway was analyzed by dual-luciferase reporter, immunofluorescence, quantitative Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot. FINDINGS: The TNFAIP1 expression is significantly decreased in HCC tissues and cell lines, and negatively correlated with the increased HCC histological grade. Overexpression of TNFAIP1 inhibits HCC cell proliferation, metastasis, angiogenesis and promotes cancer cell apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo, whereas the knockdown of TNFAIP1 in HCC cell displays opposite effects. Mechanistically, TNFAIP1 interacts with CSNK2B and promotes its ubiquitin-mediated degradation with Cul3, causing attenuation of CSNK2B-dependent NF-kappaB trans-activation in HCC cell. Moreover, the enforced expression of CSNK2B counteracts the inhibitory effects of TNFAIP1 on HCC cell proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. INTERPRETATION: Our results support that TNFAIP1 can act as a tumor suppressor of HCC by modulating TNFAIP1/CSNK2B/NF-kappaB pathway, implying that TNFAIP1 may represent a potential marker and a promising therapeutic target for HCC.
PXD015401	31902111	Proteome analysis provides new insight into major proteins involved in gibberellin-induced fruit setting in triploid loquat (Eriobotrya japonica). 	Proteome Analysis into Major Proteins Involved in Gibberellin-induced Fruit Setting in Loquat	fruit setting, loquat	BACKGROUND: Parthenocarpy can be induced by gibberellin (GA) treatment in plants. The fruits of the loquat exhibit many seeds. GA treatment can induce the development of seedless fruit and increase fruit quality during production. However, the molecular mechanism of fruit setting under GA treatment is still unclear. OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to explore GA-induced parthenocarpy in triploid loquat by proteome analysis to identify the differentially expressed proteins. METHODS: A proteome analysis was performed using TMT protein labeling and LC-MS/MS in triploid loquat. RESULTS: A total of 7290 protein groups were identified in the two stages of fruit setting. The quantitative results showed that 923 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were isolated, which were enriched in five pathways: ribosome, citrate cycle (TCA cycle), pentose phosphate, carbon metabolism, and carbon fixation. Twenty-four DEPs were annotated as putative key regulatory proteins involved in fruit setting, which were related to the auxin response, gibberellin metabolism, ethylene synthesis, and cell division. In addition, thirty-five DEPs were involved in the formation of the cell wall, which might be downstream proteins involved in cell proliferation during fruit setting. CONCLUSION: Our report reveals new insight into the protein dynamics of loquat fruit setting induced by GA treatment via the analysis of proteome profiles and provides a reference for other Rosaceae species.
PXD015521	31903419	Fidelity of translation initiation is required for coordinated respiratory complex assembly. 	Fidelity of translation initiation is required for coordinated respiratory complex assembly	RNA-Seq, cardiomyopathy, ribosome, translation	Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomes are unique molecular machines that translate 11 leaderless mRNAs; however, it is not clear how mitoribosomes initiate translation, since mitochondrial mRNAs lack untranslated regions. Mitochondrial translation initiation shares similarities with prokaryotes, such as the formation of a ternary complex of fMet-tRNA(Met), mRNA and the 28S subunit, but differs in the requirements for initiation factors. Mitochondria have two initiation factors: MTIF2, which closes the decoding center and stabilizes the binding of the fMet-tRNA(Met) to the leaderless mRNAs, and MTIF3, whose role is not clear. We show that MTIF3 is essential for survival and that heart- and skeletal muscle-specific loss of MTIF3 causes cardiomyopathy. We identify increased but uncoordinated mitochondrial protein synthesis in mice lacking MTIF3, resulting in loss of specific respiratory complexes. Ribosome profiling shows that MTIF3 is required for recognition and regulation of translation initiation of mitochondrial mRNAs and for coordinated assembly of OXPHOS complexes in vivo.
PXD016757	31903607	Cerebrospinal fluid proteomic profiling in nusinersen-treated patients with spinal muscular atrophy. 	Cerebrospinal fluid proteomic profiling in nusinersen-treated patients with spinal muscular atrophy Cerebrospinal fluid proteomic profiling in nusinersen-treated patients with spinal muscular atrophy	antisense oligonucleotide (ASO), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), mass spectrometry (MS), nusinersen, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)	Promising results from recent clinical trials on the approved antisense oligonucleotide nusinersen in pediatric patients with 5q-linked spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) still have to be confirmed in adult patients but are hindered by a lack of sensitive biomarkers that indicate an early therapeutic response. Changes in the overall neurochemical composition of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) under therapy may yield additive diagnostic and predictive information. With this prospective proof-of-concept and feasibility study, we evaluated non-targeted CSF proteomic profiles by mass spectrometry along with basic CSF parameters of 10 adult patients with SMA types 2 or 3 before and after 10 months of nusinersen therapy, in comparison with 10 age- and gender-matched controls. These data were analyzed by bioinformatics and correlated with clinical outcomes assessed by the Hammersmith Functional Rating Scale Expanded (HFMSE). CSF proteomic profiles of SMA patients differed from controls. Two groups of SMA patients were identified based on unsupervised clustering. These groups differed in age and expression of proteins related to neurodegeneration and neuroregeneration. Intraindividual CSF differences in response to nusinersen treatment varied between patients who clinically improved and those who did not. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016757. Comparative CSF proteomic analysis in adult SMA patients before and after treatment with nusinersen-identified subgroups and treatment-related changes and may therefore be suitable for diagnostic and predictive analyses.
PXD015202	31903766	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal an Altered Pattern of Protein Expression in Brain Tissue from Mice Lacking GPR37 and GPR37L1. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal an Altered Pattern of Protein Expression in Brain Tissue from Mice Lacking GPR37 and GPR37L1	Mice LFQ GPR37	GPR37 and GPR37L1 are glia-enriched G protein-coupled receptors that have been implicated in several neurological and neurodegenerative diseases. To gain insight into the potential molecular mechanisms by which GPR37 and GPR37L1 regulate cellular physiology, proteomic analyses of whole mouse brain tissue from wild-type (WT) versus GPR37/GPR37L1 double knockout (DKO) mice were performed in order to identify proteins regulated by the absence versus presence of these receptors (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015202). These analyses revealed a number of proteins that were significantly increased or decreased by the absence of GPR37 and GPR37L1. One of the most decreased proteins in the DKO versus WT brain tissue was S100A5, a calcium-binding protein, and the reduction of S100A5 expression in KO brain tissue was validated via Western blot. Coexpression of S100A5 with either GPR37 or GPR37L1 in HEK293T cells did not result in any change in S100A5 expression but did robustly increase secretion of S100A5. To dissect the mechanism by which S100A5 secretion was enhanced, cells coexpressing S100A5 with the receptors were treated with different pharmacological reagents. These studies revealed that calcium is essential for the secretion of S100A5 downstream of GPR37 and GPR37L1 signaling, as treatment with BAPTA-AM, an intracellular Ca(2+) chelator, reduced S100A5 secretion from transfected HEK293T cells. Collectively, these findings provide a panoramic view of proteomic changes resulting from loss of GPR37 and GPR37L1 and also impart mechanistic insight into the regulation of S100A5 by these receptors, thereby shedding light on the functions of GPR37 and GPR37L1 in brain tissue.
PXD014985	31904282	CRISPR-Cas9/phosphoproteomics identifies multiple noncanonical targets of myosin light chain kinase. 	CRISPR-Cas9/phosphoproteomics identifies Myosin Light Chain Kinase dependent signaling in kidney epithelial cells	AQP2, STED microscopy, endosomal trafficking, nuclear membrane, vasopressin	Prior studies have implicated myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) in the regulation of aquaporin-2 (AQP2) in the renal collecting duct. To discover signaling targets of MLCK, we used CRISPR-Cas9 to delete the MLCK gene (Mylk) to obtain MLCK-null mpkCCD cells and carried out comprehensive phosphoproteomics using stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture for quantification. Immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy demonstrated a defect in the processing of AQP2-containing early endosomes to late endosomes. The phosphoproteomics experiments revealed that, of the 1,743 phosphopeptides quantified over multiple replicates, 107 were changed in abundance by MLCK deletion (29 decreased and 78 increased). One of the decreased phosphopeptides corresponded to the canonical target site in myosin regulatory light chain. Network analysis indicated that targeted phosphoproteins clustered into distinct structural/functional groups: actomyosin, signaling, nuclear envelope, gene transcription, mRNA processing, energy metabolism, intermediate filaments, adherens junctions, and tight junctions. There was significant overlap between the derived MLCK signaling network and a previously determined PKA signaling network. The presence of multiple proteins in the actomyosin category prompted experiments showing that MLCK deletion inhibits the normal effect of vasopressin to depolymerize F-actin, providing a potential explanation for the AQP2 trafficking defect. Changes in phosphorylation of multiple proteins in the nuclear envelope prompted measurement of nuclear size, showing a significant increase in average nuclear volume. We conclude that MLCK is part of a multicomponent signaling pathway in both the cytoplasm and nucleus that includes much more than simple regulation of conventional nonmuscle myosins through myosin regulatory light chain phosphorylation.
PXD015820	31904341	Cell-specific non-canonical amino acid labelling identifies changes in the de novo proteome during memory formation. 	Cell-specific non-canonical amino acid labelling identifies changes in the hippocampal de novo proteome during memory formation	Active place avoidance, SWATH, azidohomoalanine, azidonorleucine, long-term memory, mRNA splicing, non-canonical amino acid labelling, protein synthesis	The formation of spatial long-term memory (LTM) requires the de novo synthesis of distinct sets of proteins; however, a non-biased examination of the de novo proteome in this process is lacking. Here, we generated a novel mouse strain, which enables cell-type-specific labelling of newly synthesised proteins with non-canonical amino acids (NCAAs) by genetically restricting the expression of the mutant tRNA synthetase, NLL-MetRS, to hippocampal neurons. By combining this labelling technique with an accelerated version of the active place avoidance task and bio-orthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) followed by SWATH quantitative mass spectrometry, we identified 156 proteins that were altered in synthesis in hippocampal neurons during spatial memory formation. In addition to observing increased synthesis of known proteins important in memory-related processes, such as glutamate receptor recycling, we also identified altered synthesis of proteins associated with mRNA splicing as a potential mechanism involved in spatial LTM formation.
PXD012770	31904590	Disrupted ER membrane protein complex-mediated topogenesis drives congenital neural crest defects. 	emc1_Marquez -  Disrupted ER membrane protein complex-mediated topogenesis drives congenital neural crest defects	Xenopus tropicalis, emc1	Multipass membrane proteins have a myriad of functions, including transduction of cell-cell signals, ion transport, and photoreception. Insertion of these proteins into the membrane depends on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane protein complex (EMC). Recently, birth defects have been observed in patients with variants in the gene encoding a member of this complex, EMC1. Patient phenotypes include congenital heart disease, craniofacial malformations, and neurodevelopmental disease. However, a molecular connection between EMC1 and these birth defects is lacking. Using Xenopus, we identified defects in neural crest cells (NCCs) upon emc1 depletion. We then used unbiased proteomics and discovered a critical role for emc1 in WNT signaling. Consistent with this, readouts of WNT signaling and Frizzled (Fzd) levels were reduced in emc1-depleted embryos, while NCC defects could be rescued with beta-catenin. Interestingly, other transmembrane proteins were mislocalized upon emc1 depletion, providing insight into additional patient phenotypes. To translate our findings back to humans, we found that EMC1 was necessary for human NCC development in vitro. Finally, we tested patient variants in our Xenopus model and found the majority to be loss-of-function alleles. Our findings define molecular mechanisms whereby EMC1 dysfunction causes disease phenotypes through dysfunctional multipass membrane protein topogenesis.
PXD011956	31905230	Norovirus infection results in eIF2alpha independent host translation shut-off and remodels the G3BP1 interactome evading stress granule formation. 	Norovirus infection results in assembly of virus-specific G3BP1 granules and evasion of eIF2 apha signaling	G3BP1, MNV, arsenite, stress granules	Viral infections impose major stress on the host cell. In response, stress pathways can rapidly deploy defence mechanisms by shutting off the protein synthesis machinery and triggering the accumulation of mRNAs into stress granules to limit the use of energy and nutrients. Because this threatens viral gene expression, viruses need to evade these pathways to propagate. Human norovirus is responsible for gastroenteritis outbreaks worldwide. Here we examined how norovirus interacts with the eIF2alpha signaling axis controlling translation and stress granules. While norovirus infection represses host cell translation, our mechanistic analyses revealed that eIF2alpha signaling mediated by the stress kinase GCN2 is uncoupled from translational stalling. Moreover, infection results in a redistribution of the RNA-binding protein G3BP1 to replication complexes and remodelling of its interacting partners, allowing the avoidance from canonical stress granules. These results define novel strategies by which norovirus undergo efficient replication whilst avoiding the host stress response and manipulating the G3BP1 interactome.
PXD016258	31905787	Cell Wall Proteome of Wheat Grain Endosperm and Outer Layers at Two Key Stages of Early Development. 	Wheat grain cell wall enriched proteome	Wheat, cell wall, cereal, grain	The cell wall is an important compartment in grain cells that fulfills both structural and functional roles. It has a dynamic structure that is constantly modified during development and in response to biotic and abiotic stresses. Non-structural cell wall proteins (CWPs) are key players in the remodeling of the cell wall during events that punctuate the plant life. Here, a subcellular and quantitative proteomic approach was carried out to identify CWPs possibly involved in changes in cell wall metabolism at two key stages of wheat grain development: the end of the cellularization step and the beginning of storage accumulation. Endosperm and outer layers of wheat grain were analyzed separately as they have different origins (maternal and seed) and functions in grains. Altogether, 734 proteins with predicted signal peptides were identified (CWPs). Functional annotation of CWPs pointed out a large number of proteins potentially involved in cell wall polysaccharide remodeling. In the grain outer layers, numerous proteins involved in cutin formation or lignin polymerization were found, while an unexpected abundance of proteins annotated as plant invertase/pectin methyl esterase inhibitors were identified in the endosperm. In addition, numerous CWPs were accumulating in the endosperm at the grain filling stage, thus revealing strong metabolic activities in the cell wall during endosperm cell differentiation, while protein accumulation was more intense at the earlier stage of development in outer layers. Altogether, our work gives important information on cell wall metabolism during early grain development in both parts of the grain, namely the endosperm and outer layers. The wheat cell wall proteome is the largest cell wall proteome of a monocot species found so far.
PXD013360	31906144	Changes in Proteome and Protein Phosphorylation Reveal the Protective Roles of Exogenous Nitrogen in Alleviating Cadmium Toxicity in Poplar Plants. 	The changes of Proteomeand Protein Phosphorylation reveals the protective roles of exogenous nitrogen in alleviating cadmium toxicityin poplar plants	Phosphorylation, exogenous nitrogen, plants	Phytoremediation soil polluted by cadmium has drawn worldwide attention. However, how to improve the efficiency of plant remediation of cadmium contaminated soil remains unknown. Previous studies showed that nitrogen (N) significantly enhances cadmium uptake and accumulation in poplar plants. In order to explore the important role of nitrogen in plants' responses to cadmium stress, this study investigates the poplar proteome and phosphoproteome difference between Cd stress and Cd + N treatment. In total, 6573 proteins were identified, and 5838 of them were quantified. With a fold-change threshold of > 1.3, and a p-value < 0.05, 375 and 108 proteins were up- and down-regulated by Cd stress when compared to the control, respectively. Compared to the Cd stress group, 42 and 89 proteins were up- and down-regulated by Cd + N treatment, respectively. Moreover, 522 and 127 proteins were up- and down-regulated by Cd + N treatment compared to the CK group. In addition, 1471 phosphosites in 721 proteins were identified. Based on a fold-change threshold of > 1.2, and a p-value < 0.05, the Cd stress up-regulated eight proteins containing eight phosphosites, and down-regulated 58 proteins containing 69 phosphosites, whereas N + Cd treatment up-regulated 86 proteins containing 95 phosphosites, and down-regulated 17 proteins containing 17 phosphosites, when compared to Cd stress alone. N + Cd treatment up-regulated 60 proteins containing 74 phosphosites and down-regulated 37 proteins containing 42 phosphosites, when compared to the control. Several putative responses to stress proteins, as well as transcriptional and translational regulation factors, were up-regulated by the addition of exogenous nitrogen following Cd stress. Especially, heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), 14-3-3 protein, peroxidase (POD), zinc finger protein (ZFP), ABC transporter protein, eukaryotic translation initiation factor (elF) and splicing factor 3 B subunit 1-like (SF3BI) were up-regulated by Cd + N treatment at both the proteome and the phosphoproteome levels. Combing the proteomic data and phosphoproteomics data, the mechanism by which exogenous nitrogen can alleviate cadmium toxicity in poplar plants was explained at the molecular level. The results of this study will establish the solid molecular foundation of the phytoremediation method to improve cadmium-contaminated soil.
PXD013252	31907313	High productivity in hybrid-poplar plantations without isoprene emission to the atmosphere. 	High productivity in hybrid-poplar trees without isoprene emission to the atmosphere	isoprene, poplar	Hybrid-poplar tree plantations provide a source for biofuel and biomass, but they also increase forest isoprene emissions. The consequences of increased isoprene emissions include higher rates of tropospheric ozone production, increases in the lifetime of methane, and increases in atmospheric aerosol production, all of which affect the global energy budget and/or lead to the degradation of air quality. Using RNA interference (RNAi) to suppress isoprene emission, we show that this trait, which is thought to be required for the tolerance of abiotic stress, is not required for high rates of photosynthesis and woody biomass production in the agroforest plantation environment, even in areas with high levels of climatic stress. Biomass production over 4 y in plantations in Arizona and Oregon was similar among genetic lines that emitted or did not emit significant amounts of isoprene. Lines that had substantially reduced isoprene emission rates also showed decreases in flavonol pigments, which reduce oxidative damage during extremes of abiotic stress, a pattern that would be expected to amplify metabolic dysfunction in the absence of isoprene production in stress-prone climate regimes. However, compensatory increases in the expression of other proteomic components, especially those associated with the production of protective compounds, such as carotenoids and terpenoids, and the fact that most biomass is produced prior to the hottest and driest part of the growing season explain the observed pattern of high biomass production with low isoprene emission. Our results show that it is possible to reduce the deleterious influences of isoprene on the atmosphere, while sustaining woody biomass production in temperate agroforest plantations.
PXD015768	31907603	Familial globular glial tauopathy linked to MAPT mutations: molecular neuropathology and seeding capacity of a prototypical mixed neuronal and glial tauopathy. 	Proteomics analysis in GGT subjects	GGT, phosphoproteomics	Globular glial tauopathy (GGT) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease involving the grey matter and white matter (WM) and characterized by neuronal deposition of hyper-phosphorylated, abnormally conformed, truncated, oligomeric 4Rtau in neurons and in glial cells forming typical globular astrocyte and oligodendrocyte inclusions (GAIs and GOIs, respectively) and coiled bodies. Present studies centre on four genetic GGT cases from two unrelated families bearing the P301T mutation in MAPT and one case of sporadic GGT (sGGT) and one case of GGT linked to MAPT K317M mutation, for comparative purposes. Clinical and neuropathological manifestations and biochemical profiles of phospho-tau are subjected to individual variations in patients carrying the same mutation, even in carriers of the same family, independently of the age of onset, gender, and duration of the disease. Immunohistochemistry, western blotting, transcriptomic, proteomics and phosphoproteomics, and intra-cerebral inoculation of brain homogenates to wild-type (WT) mice were the methods employed. In GGT cases linked to MAPT P301T mutation, astrocyte markers GFAP, ALDH1L1, YKL40 mRNA and protein, GJA1 mRNA, and AQ4 protein are significantly increased; glutamate transporter GLT1 (EAAT2) and glucose transporter (SLC2A1) decreased; mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1 (MPC1) increased, and mitochondrial uncoupling protein 5 (UCP5) almost absent in GAIs in frontal cortex (FC). Expression of oligodendrocyte markers OLIG1 and OLIG2mRNA, and myelin-related genes MBP, PLP1, CNP, MAG, MAL, MOG, and MOBP are significantly decreased in WM; CNPase, PLP1, and MBP antibodies reveal reduction and disruption of myelinated fibres; and SMI31 antibodies mark axonal damage in the WM. Altered expression of AQ4, GLUC-t, and GLT-1 is also observed in sGGT and in GGT linked to MAPT K317M mutation. These alterations point to primary astrogliopathy and oligodendrogliopathy in GGT. In addition, GGT linked to MAPT P301T mutation proteotypes unveil a proteostatic imbalance due to widespread (phospho)proteomic dearrangement in the FC and WM, triggering a disruption of neuron projection morphogenesis and synaptic transmission. Identification of hyper-phosphorylation of variegated proteins calls into question the concept of phospho-tau-only alteration in the pathogenesis of GGT. Finally, unilateral inoculation of sarkosyl-insoluble fractions of GGT homogenates from GGT linked to MAPT P301T, sGGT, and GGT linked to MAPT K317M mutation in the hippocampus, corpus callosum, or caudate/putamen in wild-type mice produces seeding, and time- and region-dependent spreading of phosphorylated, non-oligomeric, and non-truncated 4Rtau and 3Rtau, without GAIs and GOIs but only of coiled bodies. These experiments prove that host tau strains are important in the modulation of cellular vulnerability and phenotypes of phospho-tau aggregates.
PXD015646	31908851	Identification of antigens presented by MHC for vaccines against tuberculosis. 	Immunopeptidomics of Bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG)-infected Thp-1 cells	BCG, Bacillus Calmette-Gurin, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), HLA, Human Proteome Project, Immunopeptidome, MHC, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP) (B/D-HPP)	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) is responsible for more deaths globally than any other pathogen. The only available vaccine, bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), has variable efficacy throughout the world. A more effective vaccine is urgently needed. The immune response against tuberculosis relies, at least in part, on CD4(+) T cells. Protective vaccines require the induction of antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells via mycobacterial peptides presented by MHC class-II in infected macrophages. In order to identify mycobacterial antigens bound to MHC, we have immunoprecipitated MHC class-I and class-II complexes from THP-1 macrophages infected with BCG, purified MHC class-I and MHC class-II peptides and analysed them by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. We have successfully identified 94 mycobacterial peptides presented by MHC-II and 43 presented by MHC-I, from 76 and 41 antigens, respectively. These antigens were found to be highly expressed in infected macrophages. Gene ontology analysis suggests most of these antigens are associated with membranes and involved in lipid biosynthesis and transport. The sequences of selected peptides were confirmed by spectral match validation and immunogenicity evaluated by IFN-gamma ELISpot against peripheral blood mononuclear cell from volunteers vaccinated with BCG, M.tb latently infected subjects or patients with tuberculosis disease. Three antigens were expressed in viral vectors, and evaluated as vaccine candidates alone or in combination in a murine aerosol M.tb challenge model. When delivered in combination, the three candidate vaccines conferred significant protection in the lungs and spleen compared with BCG alone, demonstrating proof-of-concept for this unbiased approach to identifying new candidate antigens.
PXD011382	31909713	The GTPase Nog1 co-ordinates the assembly, maturation and quality control of distant ribosomal functional centers. 	The GTPase Nog1 co-ordinates assembly, maturation and quality control of distant ribosomal functional centers	60S, APMS, Ribosome, S cerevisiae	Eukaryotic ribosome precursors acquire translation competence in the cytoplasm through stepwise release of bound assembly factors, and proofreading of their functional centers. In case of the pre-60S, these steps include removal of placeholders Rlp24, Arx1 and Mrt4 that prevent premature loading of the ribosomal protein eL24, the protein-folding machinery at the polypeptide exit tunnel (PET), and the ribosomal stalk, respectively. Here, we reveal that sequential ATPase and GTPase activities license release factors Rei1 and Yvh1 to trigger Arx1 and Mrt4 removal. Drg1-ATPase activity removes Rlp24 from the GTPase Nog1 on the pre-60S; consequently, the C-terminal tail of Nog1 is extracted from the PET. These events enable Rei1 to probe PET integrity and catalyze Arx1 release. Concomitantly, Nog1 eviction from the pre-60S permits peptidyl transferase center maturation, and allows Yvh1 to mediate Mrt4 release for stalk assembly. Thus, Nog1 co-ordinates the assembly, maturation and quality control of distant functional centers during ribosome formation.
PXD014178	31910770	Protein aggregate formation permits millennium-old brain preservation. 	Ancient human brain LC-MS proteomic analysys	LC-MS, brain, paleoproteomics	Human proteins have not been reported to survive in free nature, at ambient temperature, for long periods. Particularly, the human brain rapidly dissolves after death due to auto-proteolysis and putrefaction. The here presented discovery of 2600-year-old brain proteins from a radiocarbon dated human brain provides new evidence for extraordinary long-term stability of non-amyloid protein aggregates. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the preservation of neurocytoarchitecture in the ancient brain, which appeared shrunken and compact compared to a modern brain. Resolution of intermediate filaments (IFs) from protein aggregates took 2-12 months. Immunoassays on micro-dissected brain tissue homogenates revealed the preservation of the known protein topography for grey and white matter for type III (glial fibrillary acidic protein, GFAP) and IV (neurofilaments, Nfs) IFs. Mass spectrometry data could be matched to a number of peptide sequences, notably for GFAP and Nfs. Preserved immunogenicity of the prehistoric human brain proteins was demonstrated by antibody generation (GFAP, Nfs, myelin basic protein). Unlike brain proteins, DNA was of poor quality preventing reliable sequencing. These long-term data from a unique ancient human brain demonstrate that aggregate formation permits for the preservation of brain proteins for millennia.
PXD015295	31911438	The plastidial Arabidopsis thaliana NFU1 protein binds and delivers [4Fe-4S] clusters to specific client proteins. 	The plastidial Arabidopsis thaliana NFU1 delivers [4Fe-4S] clusters to specific client proteins		Proteins incorporating iron-sulfur (Fe-S) co-factors are required for a plethora of metabolic processes. Their maturation depends on three Fe-S cluster assembly machineries in plants, located in the cytosol, mitochondria, and chloroplasts. After de novo formation on scaffold proteins, transfer proteins load Fe-S clusters onto client proteins. Among the plastidial representatives of these transfer proteins, NFU2 and NFU3 are required for the maturation of the [4Fe-4S] clusters present in photosystem I subunits, acting upstream of the high-chlorophyll fluorescence 101 (HCF101) protein. NFU2 is also required for the maturation of the [2Fe-2S]-containing dihydroxyacid dehydratase, important for branched-chain amino acid synthesis. Here, we report that recombinant Arabidopsis thaliana NFU1 assembles one [4Fe-4S] cluster per homodimer. Performing co-immunoprecipitation experiments and assessing physical interactions of NFU1 with many [4Fe-4S]-containing plastidial proteins in binary yeast two-hybrid assays, we also gained insights into the specificity of NFU1 for the maturation of chloroplastic Fe-S proteins. Using bimolecular fluorescence complementation and in vitro Fe-S cluster transfer experiments, we confirmed interactions with two proteins involved in isoprenoid and thiamine biosynthesis, 1-hydroxy-2-methyl-2-(E)-butenyl-4-diphosphate synthase and 4-amino-5-hydroxymethyl-2-methylpyrimidine phosphate synthase, respectively. An additional interaction detected with the scaffold protein SUFD enabled us to build a model in which NFU1 receives its Fe-S cluster from the SUFBC2D scaffold complex and serves in the maturation of specific [4Fe-4S] client proteins. The identification of the NFU1 partner proteins reported here more clearly defines the role of NFU1 in Fe-S client protein maturation in Arabidopsis chloroplasts among other SUF components.
PXD016417	31911440	Twin enzymes, divergent control: The cholesterogenic enzymes DHCR14 and LBR are differentially regulated transcriptionally and post-translationally. 	The human cholesterogenic enzymes DHCR14 and LBR are differentially regulated transcriptionally and post-translationally	DHCR14, LBR, cholesterol synthesis enzymes	Cholesterol synthesis is a tightly regulated process, both transcriptionally and post-translationally. Transcriptional control of cholesterol synthesis is relatively well-understood. However, of the ~20 enzymes in cholesterol biosynthesis, post-translational regulation has only been examined for a small number. Three of the four sterol reductases in cholesterol production, 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7), 14-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR14), and lamin-B receptor (LBR), share evolutionary ties with a high level of sequence homology and predicted structural homology. DHCR14 and LBR uniquely share the same Delta-14 reductase activity in cholesterol biosynthesis, yet little is known about their post-translational regulation. We have previously identified specific modes of post-translational control of DHCR7, but it is unknown whether these regulatory mechanisms are shared by DHCR14 and LBR. Using CHO-7 cells stably expressing epitope-tagged DHCR14 or LBR, we investigated the post-translational regulation of these enzymes. We found that DHCR14 and LBR undergo differential post-translational regulation, with DHCR14 being rapidly turned over, triggered by cholesterol and other sterol intermediates, whereas LBR remained stable. DHCR14 is degraded via the ubiquitin-proteasome system, and we identified several DHCR14 and DHCR7 putative interaction partners, including a number of E3 ligases that modulate DHCR14 levels. Interestingly, we found that gene expression across an array of human tissues showed a negative relationship between the C14-sterol reductases; one enzyme or the other tends to be predominantly expressed in each tissue. Overall, our findings indicate that whereas LBR tends to be the constitutively active C14-sterol reductase, DHCR14 levels are tunable, responding to the local cellular demands for cholesterol.
PXD014366	31911463	Dynamic Characterization of Protein and Posttranslational Modification Levels in Mycobacterial Cholesterol Catabolism. 	Quantitative proteomic and PTM omic analysis in mycobacteria	quantitative acetylome, quantitative phosphorylome, quantitative propionylome, quantitative proteome	Cholesterol of the host macrophage membrane is vital for mycobacterial infection, replication, and persistence. During chronic infection within host lung tissues, cholesterol facilitates the phagocytosis of mycobacteria into macrophages. Cholesterol degradation leads to increased flux of acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) and propionyl-CoA, providing energy and building blocks for virulence macromolecules as well as donors for global protein acylation. Potential functions of lysine acylation are gradually revealed in bacterial survival and pathogenesis. However, the mycobacterial proteome and posttranslational modification (PTM) changes involved in the cholesterol catabolism bioprocess remain unclear. Here, we used nonpathogenic Mycobacterium smegmatis as a model and simultaneously monitored mycobacterial proteome and acetylome changes in the presence of glucose and cholesterol. We discovered that cholesterol metabolic enzymes were upregulated with respect to both protein expression levels and lysine acylation levels during the metabolic shift from glucose to cholesterol. After that, adenylating enzymes related to cholesterol metabolism were proven to be precisely regulated at the propionylation level by mycobacterial acyltransferase M. smegmatis Kat (MsKat) in response to cellular propionyl-CoA accumulation. Furthermore, the kinase expression and phosphorylation levels were also changed along with fluctuations in cholesterol levels. Our results expanded current knowledge of acylation regulation in the cholesterol catabolism of mycobacteria and provided references for possible antimycobacterium strategy.IMPORTANCE Cholesterol assimilation is a critical step in mycobacterial chronic infection. However, knowledge from the dynamic characterization of cholesterol metabolism in mycobacteria at the protein expression and PTM levels remains limited. Our study uncovered the landscape of protein expression, lysine acetylation, lysine propionylation, and S/T/Y phosphorylation during the metabolic changes from glucose to cholesterol in mycobacteria. The data showed that cholesterol-induced carbon shift resulted in the elevation of protein expression and lysine acylation in diverse metabolic enzymes involved in cholesterol degradation and that the presence of cholesterol also promoted the perturbations at the phosphorylation level in the kinase system in mycobacteria. This study systematically characterized the regulation of cholesterol catabolism at several different levels, which provided the detailed references in mycobacterial proteome and potential antimycobacterial strategies.
PXD013461	31911540	Diverse BRAF Gene Fusions Confer Resistance to EGFR-Targeted Therapy via Differential Modulation of BRAF Activity. 	Fusion partners influence cellular and molecular phenotypes of oncogenic BRAF fusions	BRAF, CRC, Fusion Genes, Fusion Partner, Organoids, resistance, signaling	Fusion genes can be oncogenic drivers in a variety of cancer types and represent potential targets for targeted therapy. The BRAF gene is frequently involved in oncogenic gene fusions, with fusion frequencies of 0.2%-3% throughout different cancers. However, BRAF fusions rarely occur in the same gene configuration, potentially challenging personalized therapy design. In particular, the impact of the wide variety of fusion partners on the oncogenic role of BRAF during tumor growth and drug response is unknown. Here, we used patient-derived colorectal cancer organoids to functionally characterize and cross-compare BRAF fusions containing various partner genes (AGAP3, DLG1, and TRIM24) with respect to cellular behavior, downstream signaling activation, and response to targeted therapies. We demonstrate that 5' fusion partners mainly promote canonical oncogenic BRAF activity by replacing the auto-inhibitory N-terminal region. In addition, the 5' partner of BRAF fusions influences their subcellular localization and intracellular signaling capacity, revealing distinct subsets of affected signaling pathways and altered gene expression. Presence of the different BRAF fusions resulted in varying sensitivities to combinatorial inhibition of MEK and the EGF receptor family. However, all BRAF fusions conveyed resistance to targeted monotherapy against the EGF receptor family, suggesting that BRAF fusions should be screened alongside other MAPK pathway alterations to identify patients with metastatic colorectal cancer to exclude from anti-EGFR-targeted treatment. IMPLICATIONS: Although intracellular signaling and sensitivity to targeted therapies of BRAF fusion genes are influenced by their 5' fusion partner, we show that all investigated BRAF fusions confer resistance to clinically relevant EGFR inhibition.
PXD015659	31911580	O-GlcNAcylation of PGK1 coordinates glycolysis and TCA cycle to promote tumor growth. 	Site mapping of PGK1 O-GlcNAcylation	PGK1	Many cancer cells display enhanced glycolysis and suppressed mitochondrial metabolism. This phenomenon, known as the Warburg effect, is critical for tumor development. However, how cancer cells coordinate glucose metabolism through glycolysis and the mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is largely unknown. We demonstrate here that phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1), the first ATP-producing enzyme in glycolysis, is reversibly and dynamically modified with O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) at threonine 255 (T255). O-GlcNAcylation activates PGK1 activity to enhance lactate production, and simultaneously induces PGK1 translocation into mitochondria. Inside mitochondria, PGK1 acts as a kinase to inhibit pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex to reduce oxidative phosphorylation. Blocking T255 O-GlcNAcylation of PGK1 decreases colon cancer cell proliferation, suppresses glycolysis, enhances the TCA cycle, and inhibits tumor growth in xenograft models. Furthermore, PGK1 O-GlcNAcylation levels are elevated in human colon cancers. This study highlights O-GlcNAcylation as an important signal for coordinating glycolysis and the TCA cycle to promote tumorigenesis.
PXD016172	31911584	BCL9 provides multi-cellular communication properties in colorectal cancer by interacting with paraspeckle proteins. 	BCL9 provides multi-cellular communication properties in colorectal cancer by interacting with paraspeckle proteins	BCL9, colorectal cancer, paraspeckles	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer, which despite recent advances in treatment, remains incurable due to molecular heterogeneity of tumor cells. The B-cell lymphoma 9 (BCL9) oncogene functions as a transcriptional co-activator of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, which plays critical roles in CRC pathogenesis. Here we have identified a beta-catenin-independent function of BCL9 in a poor-prognosis subtype of CRC tumors characterized by expression of stromal and neural associated genes. In response to spontaneous calcium transients or cellular stress, BCL9 is recruited adjacent to the interchromosomal regions, where it stabilizes the mRNA of calcium signaling and neural associated genes by interacting with paraspeckle proteins. BCL9 subsequently promotes tumor progression and remodeling of the tumor microenvironment (TME) by sustaining the calcium transients and neurotransmitter-dependent communication among CRC cells. These data provide additional insights into the role of BCL9 in tumor pathogenesis and point towards additional avenues for therapeutic intervention.
PXD016331	31911620	Quantitative live cell imaging reveals influenza virus manipulation of Rab11A transport through reduced dynein association. 	Quantitative Live Cell Imaging Reveals Differential Manipulation of Rab11A Transport Pathways by Influenza virus and RSV	RNA, Rab11A, assembly, endosomes, fluorescence microscopy, influenza virus, light-sheet microscopy, live-cell imaging, microtubules, motor transport, vesicle tracking, viral RNA	Assembly of infectious influenza A viruses (IAV) is a complex process involving transport from the nucleus to the plasma membrane. Rab11A-containing recycling endosomes have been identified as a platform for intracellular transport of viral RNA (vRNA). Here, using high spatiotemporal resolution light-sheet microscopy (~1.4 volumes/second, 330 nm isotropic resolution), we quantify Rab11A and vRNA movement in live cells during IAV infection and report that IAV infection decreases speed and increases arrest of Rab11A. Unexpectedly, infection with respiratory syncytial virus alters Rab11A motion in a manner opposite to IAV, suggesting that Rab11A is a common host component that is differentially manipulated by respiratory RNA viruses. Using two-color imaging we demonstrate co-transport of Rab11A and IAV vRNA in infected cells and provide direct evidence that vRNA-associated Rab11A have altered transport. The mechanism of altered Rab11A movement is likely related to a decrease in dynein motors bound to Rab11A vesicles during IAV infection.
PXD015138	31913317	Treacle controls the nucleolar response to rDNA breaks via TOPBP1 recruitment and ATR activation. 	Treacle controls the nucleolar response to rDNA breaks via TOPBP1 recruitment and ATR activation	DNA double.strand breaks, Q Exactive HF, treacle	Induction of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in ribosomal DNA (rDNA) repeats is associated with ATM-dependent repression of ribosomal RNA synthesis and large-scale reorganization of nucleolar architecture, but the signaling events that regulate these responses are largely elusive. Here we show that the nucleolar response to rDNA breaks is dependent on both ATM and ATR activity. We further demonstrate that ATM- and NBS1-dependent recruitment of TOPBP1 in the nucleoli is required for inhibition of ribosomal RNA synthesis and nucleolar segregation in response to rDNA breaks. Mechanistically, TOPBP1 recruitment is mediated by phosphorylation-dependent interactions between three of its BRCT domains and conserved phosphorylated Ser/Thr residues at the C-terminus of the nucleolar phosphoprotein Treacle. Our data thus reveal an important cooperation between TOPBP1 and Treacle in the signaling cascade that triggers transcriptional inhibition and nucleolar segregation in response to rDNA breaks.
PXD013368	31913336	Architecture of The Human Ape1 Interactome Defines Novel Cancers Signatures. 	APE1 INTERACTOME -  Architecture of The Human Ape1 Interactome Defines Novel Cancers Signatures	interactome, nLC/MS/MS	APE1 is essential in cancer cells due to its central role in the Base Excision Repair pathway of DNA lesions and in the transcriptional regulation of genes involved in tumor progression/chemoresistance. Indeed, APE1 overexpression correlates with chemoresistance in more aggressive cancers, and APE1 protein-protein interactions (PPIs) specifically modulate different protein functions in cancer cells. Although important, a detailed investigation on the nature and function of protein interactors regulating APE1 role in tumor progression and chemoresistance is still lacking. The present work was aimed at analyzing the APE1-PPI network with the goal of defining bad prognosis signatures through systematic bioinformatics analysis. By using a well-characterized HeLa cell model stably expressing a flagged APE1 form, which was subjected to extensive proteomics analyses for immunocaptured complexes from different subcellular compartments, we here demonstrate that APE1 is a central hub connecting different subnetworks largely composed of proteins belonging to cancer-associated communities and/or involved in RNA- and DNA-metabolism. When we performed survival analysis in real cancer datasets, we observed that more than 80% of these APE1-PPI network elements is associated with bad prognosis. Our findings, which are hypothesis generating, strongly support the possibility to infer APE1-interactomic signatures associated with bad prognosis of different cancers; they will be of general interest for the future definition of novel predictive disease biomarkers. Future studies will be needed to assess the function of APE1 in the protein complexes we discovered. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013368.
PXD015824	31915252	The GATOR2-mTORC2 axis mediates Sestrin2-induced AKT Ser/Thr kinase activation. 	The GATOR2-mTORC2 axis mediates Sestrin2-induced AKT Ser/Thr kinase activation	Akt PKB, GATOR2, Sestrin2, liver metabolism, mTOR	Sestrins represent a family of stress-inducible proteins that prevent the progression of many age- and obesity-associated disorders. Endogenous Sestrins maintain insulin-dependent AKT Ser/Thr kinase (AKT) activation during high-fat diet-induced obesity, and overexpressed Sestrins activate AKT in various cell types, including liver and skeletal muscle cells. Although Sestrin-mediated AKT activation improves metabolic parameters, the mechanistic details underlying such improvement remain elusive. Here, we investigated how Sestrin2, the Sestrin homolog highly expressed in liver, induces strong AKT activation. We found that two known targets of Sestrin2, mTOR complex (mTORC) 1 and AMP-activated protein kinase, are not required for Sestrin2-induced AKT activation. Rather, phosphoinositol 3-kinase and mTORC2, kinases upstream of AKT, were essential for Sestrin2-induced AKT activation. Among these kinases, mTORC2 catalytic activity was strongly up-regulated upon Sestrin2 overexpression in an in vitro kinase assay, indicating that mTORC2 may represent the major link between Sestrin2 and AKT. As reported previously, Sestrin2 interacted with mTORC2; however, we found here that this interaction occurs indirectly through GATOR2, a pentameric protein complex that directly interacts with Sestrin2. Deleting or silencing WDR24 (WD repeat domain 24), the GATOR2 component essential for the Sestrin2-GATOR2 interaction, or WDR59, the GATOR2 component essential for the GATOR2-mTORC2 interaction, completely ablated Sestrin2-induced AKT activation. We also noted that Sestrin2 also directly binds to the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT and induces AKT translocation to the plasma membrane. These results uncover a signaling mechanism whereby Sestrin2 activates AKT through GATOR2 and mTORC2.
PXD015561	31915259	The Orphan Immune Receptor LILRB3 Modulates Fc Receptor-Mediated Functions of Neutrophils. 	The Paired Orphan Immune Receptors LILRA6 and LILRB3 Modulate Fc Receptor Mediated Functions of Neutrophils	Neutrophils, Paired Orphan Immune Receptors	Neutrophils are critical to the generation of effective immune responses and for killing invading microbes. Paired immune receptors provide important mechanisms to modulate neutrophil activation thresholds and effector functions. Expression of the leukocyte Ig-like receptor (LILR)A6 (ILT8/CD85b) and LILRB3 (ILT5/CD85a) paired-receptor system on human neutrophils has remained unclear because of the lack of specific molecular tools. Additionally, there is little known of their possible functions in neutrophil biology. The objective of this study was to characterize expression of LILRA6/LILRB3 receptors during human neutrophil differentiation and activation, and to assess their roles in modulating Fc receptor-mediated effector functions. LILRB3, but not LILRA6, was detected in human neutrophil lysates following immunoprecipitation by mass spectrometry. We demonstrate high LILRB3 expression on the surface of resting neutrophils and release from the surface following neutrophil activation. Surface expression was recapitulated in a human PLB-985 cell model of neutrophil-like differentiation. Continuous ligation of LILRB3 inhibited key IgA-mediated effector functions, including production of reactive oxygen species, phagocytic uptake, and microbial killing. This suggests that LILRB3 provides an important checkpoint to control human neutrophil activation and their antimicrobial effector functions during resting and early-activation stages of the neutrophil life cycle.
PXD013663	31915304	HDAC inhibition improves cardiopulmonary function in a feline model of diastolic dysfunction. 	HDAC inhibition improves cardiopulmonary and mitochondrial function in a feline model with features of Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction	Acetylation proteomics, Cat, HDAC, heart failure, hypertrophy, lung compliance, myofibril relaxation, pulmonary hypertension	Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a major health problem without effective therapies. This study assessed the effects of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition on cardiopulmonary structure, function, and metabolism in a large mammalian model of pressure overload recapitulating features of diastolic dysfunction common to human HFpEF. Male domestic short-hair felines (n = 31, aged 2 months) underwent a sham procedure (n = 10) or loose aortic banding (n = 21), resulting in slow-progressive pressure overload. Two months after banding, animals were treated daily with suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (b + SAHA, 10 mg/kg, n = 8), a Food and Drug Administration-approved pan-HDAC inhibitor, or vehicle (b + veh, n = 8) for 2 months. Echocardiography at 4 months after banding revealed that b + SAHA animals had significantly reduced left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) (P < 0.0001) and left atrium size (P < 0.0001) versus b + veh animals. Left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic pressure and mean pulmonary arterial pressure were significantly reduced in b + SAHA (P < 0.01) versus b + veh. SAHA increased myofibril relaxation ex vivo, which correlated with in vivo improvements of LV relaxation. Furthermore, SAHA treatment preserved lung structure, compliance, blood oxygenation, and reduced perivascular fluid cuffs around extra-alveolar vessels, suggesting attenuated alveolar capillary stress failure. Acetylation proteomics revealed that SAHA altered lysine acetylation of mitochondrial metabolic enzymes. These results suggest that acetylation defects in hypertrophic stress can be reversed by HDAC inhibitors, with implications for improving cardiac structure and function in patients.
PXD012688	31916122	RP-HPLC-ESI-IT Mass Spectrometry Reveals Significant Variations of the Human Salivary Protein Profile Associated with Predominantly Antibody Deficiencies. 	Human Salivary Neutrophil Defensins (Alpha-Defensins)	Top-Down proteomics, high resolution mass spectrometry, human alpha defensins, saliva	PURPOSE: Present study is designed to discover potential salivary biomarkers associated with predominantly antibody deficiencies, which include a large spectrum of disorders sharing failure of antibody production, and B cell defects resulting in recurrent infections, autoimmune and inflammatory manifestations, and tumor susceptibility. Understanding and clinical classification of these syndromes is still challenging. METHODS: We carried out a study of human saliva based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry measurements of intact protein mass values. Salivary protein profiles of patients (n = 23) and healthy controls (n = 30) were compared. RESULTS: Patients exhibited lower abundance of alpha-defensins 1-4, cystatins S1 and S2, and higher abundance of glutathionylated cystatin B and cystatin SN than controls. Patients could be clustered in two groups on the basis of different levels of cystatin SN, S1 and S2, suggesting that these proteins may play different roles in the disease. CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative variations of these pro-inflammatory and antimicrobial peptides/proteins may be related to immunodeficiency and infectious condition of the patients. The high incidence of tumors in the group with the highest level of cystatin SN, which is recognized as tumoral marker, appeared an intriguing result deserving of future investigations. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012688.
PXD013635	31917255	Tendon response to matrix unloading is determined by the patho-physiological niche. 	Tendon tissue degradome in response to the patho-physiological niche	TAILS, Tendon, Thermo Q Exactive	Although the molecular mechanisms behind tendon disease remain obscure, aberrant stromal matrix turnover and tissue hypervascularity are known hallmarks of advanced tendinopathy. We harness a tendon explant model to unwind complex cross-talk between the stromal and vascular tissue compartments. We identify the hypervascular tendon niche as a state-switch that gates degenerative matrix remodeling within the tissue stroma. Here pathological conditions resembling hypervascular tendon disease provoke rapid cell-mediated tissue breakdown upon mechanical unloading, in contrast to unloaded tendons that remain functionally stable in physiological low-oxygen/-temperature niches. Analyses of the stromal tissue transcriptome and secretome reveal that a stromal niche with elevated tissue oxygenation and temperature drives a ROS mediated cellular stress response that leads to adoption of an immune-modulatory phenotype within the degrading stromal tissue. Degradomic analysis further reveals a surprisingly rich set of active matrix proteases behind the progressive loss of tissue mechanics. We conclude that the tendon stromal compartment responds to aberrant mechanical unloading in a manner that is highly dependent on the vascular niche, with ROS gating a complex proteolytic breakdown of the functional collagen backbone.
PXD016602	31919190	Hap2-Ino80-facilitated transcription promotes de novo establishment of CENP-A chromatin. 	Hap2-Ino80 mediated transcription facilitates de novo establishment of CENP-A chromatin	CENP-A, Centromeres, chromatin, histones, label-free proteomics, nucleosomes	Centromeres are maintained epigenetically by the presence of CENP-A, an evolutionarily conserved histone H3 variant, which directs kinetochore assembly and hence centromere function. To identify factors that promote assembly of CENP-A chromatin, we affinity-selected solubilized fission yeast CENP-A(Cnp1) chromatin. All subunits of the Ino80 complex were enriched, including the auxiliary subunit Hap2. Chromatin association of Hap2 is Ies4-dependent. In addition to a role in maintenance of CENP-A(Cnp1) chromatin integrity at endogenous centromeres, Hap2 is required for de novo assembly of CENP-A(Cnp1) chromatin on naive centromere DNA and promotes H3 turnover on centromere regions and other loci prone to CENP-A(Cnp1) deposition. Prior to CENP-A(Cnp1) chromatin assembly, Hap2 facilitates transcription from centromere DNA. These analyses suggest that Hap2-Ino80 destabilizes H3 nucleosomes on centromere DNA through transcription-coupled histone H3 turnover, driving the replacement of resident H3 nucleosomes with CENP-A(Cnp1) nucleosomes. These inherent properties define centromere DNA by directing a program that mediates CENP-A(Cnp1) assembly on appropriate sequences.
PXD014108	31919359	In silico spectral libraries by deep learning facilitate data-independent acquisition proteomics. 	Direct data-independent acquisition proteomics with in silico spectral libraries by deep learning	data-independent acquisition, deep learning, serum, spectral library	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) is an emerging technology for quantitative proteomic analysis of large cohorts of samples. However, sample-specific spectral libraries built by data-dependent acquisition (DDA) experiments are required prior to DIA analysis, which is time-consuming and limits the identification/quantification by DIA to the peptides identified by DDA. Herein, we propose DeepDIA, a deep learning-based approach to generate in silico spectral libraries for DIA analysis. We demonstrate that the quality of in silico libraries predicted by instrument-specific models using DeepDIA is comparable to that of experimental libraries, and outperforms libraries generated by global models. With peptide detectability prediction, in silico libraries can be built directly from protein sequence databases. We further illustrate that DeepDIA can break through the limitation of DDA on peptide/protein detection, and enhance DIA analysis on human serum samples compared to the state-of-the-art protocol using a DDA library. We expect this work expanding the toolbox for DIA proteomics.
PXD014487	31919869	Adipocyte extracellular vesicles carry enzymes and fatty acids that stimulate mitochondrial metabolism and remodeling in tumor cells. 	Adipocyte vesicles: all-in-one' packages that stimulate tumor mitochondrial metabolism and dynamics	exosome / fatty acid oxidation / lipophagy / melanoma / obesity / LC-MSMS	Extracellular vesicles are emerging key actors in adipocyte communication. Notably, small extracellular vesicles shed by adipocytes stimulate fatty acid oxidation and migration in melanoma cells and these effects are enhanced in obesity. However, the vesicular actors and cellular processes involved remain largely unknown. Here, we elucidate the mechanisms linking adipocyte extracellular vesicles to metabolic remodeling and cell migration. We show that adipocyte vesicles stimulate melanoma fatty acid oxidation by providing both enzymes and substrates. In obesity, the heightened effect of extracellular vesicles depends on increased transport of fatty acids, not fatty acid oxidation-related enzymes. These fatty acids, stored within lipid droplets in cancer cells, drive fatty acid oxidation upon being released by lipophagy. This increase in mitochondrial activity redistributes mitochondria to membrane protrusions of migrating cells, which is necessary to increase cell migration in the presence of adipocyte vesicles. Our results provide key insights into the role of extracellular vesicles in the metabolic cooperation that takes place between adipocytes and tumors with particular relevance to obesity.
PXD016040	31920518	Perturbation of Ephrin Receptor Signaling and Glutamatergic Transmission in the Hypothalamus in Depression Using Proteomics Integrated With Metabolomics. 	Hypothalamic Proteomics analysis of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depressed mice	Brain tissue, Depression, Hypothalamus, Lipopolysaccharide, iTRAQ LC-MS/MS	Hypothalamic dysfunction is a key pathological factor in inflammation-associated depression. In the present study, isobaric tags for relative-absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) combined with mass spectrometry and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) were employed to detect the proteomes and metabolomes in the hypothalamus of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depression mouse, respectively. A total of 187 proteins and 27 metabolites were differentially expressed compared with the control group. Following the integration of bi-omics data, pertinent pathways and molecular interaction networks were further identified. The results indicated altered molecules were clustered into Ephrin receptor signaling, glutamatergic transmission, and inflammation-related signaling included the LXR/RXR activation, FXR/RXR activation, and acute phase response signaling. First discovered in the hypothalamus, Ephrin receptor signaling regulates N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-predominant glutamatergic transmission, and further acted on AKT signaling that contributed to changes in hypothalamic neuroplasticity. Ephrin type-B receptor 2 (EPHB2), a transmembrane receptor protein in Ephrin receptor signaling, was significantly elevated and interacted with the accumulated NMDAR subunit GluN2A in the hypothalamus. Additionally, molecules involved in synaptic plasticity regulation, such as hypothalamic postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95), p-AKT and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), were significantly altered in the LPS-induced depressed group. It might be an underlying pathogenesis that the EPHB2-GluN2A-AKT cascade regulates synaptic plasticity in depression. EPHB2 can be a potential therapeutic target in the correction of glutamatergic transmission dysfunction. In summary, our findings point to the previously undiscovered molecular underpinnings of the pathophysiology in the hypothalamus of inflammation-associated depression and offer potential targets to develop antidepressants.
PXD015139	31921038	Unbalanced Roles of Fungal Aggressiveness and Host Cultivars in the Establishment of the Fusarium Head Blight in Bread Wheat. 	Unbalanced roles of fungal aggressiveness and host genetic background in the establishment of the Fusarium head blight in bread wheat	Fungal aggressiveness, Fusarium Head Blight, Fusarium graminearum, Wheat, proteins	Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused mainly by Fusarium graminearum, is the foremost destructive disease of cereals worldwide. Effector-like molecules produced by F. graminearum play key roles in the infection process and are assumed to be one of the essential components of the pathogen's aggressiveness. However, their nature and role in the disease are still largely misunderstood. As a mean to provide relevant information about the molecular determinism of F. graminearum aggressiveness, we surveyed three F. graminearum strains on three wheat cultivars contrasted by their susceptibility to FHB. F. graminearum strains revealed large differences in aggressiveness which were mostly unchanged when facing hosts of contrasted susceptibility, suggesting that their behavior rely on intrinsic determinants. Surveying the fungal mass progress and the mycotoxin production rate in the spikes did not evidence any simple relationship with aggressiveness differences, while clues were found through a qualitative and quantitative characterization of the three strain proteomes established in planta especially with regards to early synthesized putative effectors. Independently of the wheat cultivar, the three F. graminearum strains produced systematically the same protein set during the infection but substantial differences in their abundance enabled the categorization of fungal aggressiveness. Overall, our findings show that the contrasts in F. graminearum aggressiveness were not based on the existence of strain-specific molecules but rather on the ability of the strain to ensure their sufficient accumulation. Protein abundance variance was mostly driven by the strain genetics and part was also influenced by the host cultivar but strain by cultivar interactions were marginally detected, depicting that strain-specific protein accumulations did not depend on the host cultivar. All these data provide new knowledge on fungal aggressiveness determinants and provide a resourceful repertoire of candidate effector proteins to guide further research.
PXD013722	31921118	ITGB5 Plays a Key Role in Escherichia coli F4ac-Induced Diarrhea in Piglets. 	Comparative proteomics analysis of  jejunum samples for susceptible and resistant full-sib piglets to Escherichia coli F4ac	Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli, Pig	Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) that expresses F4ac fimbriae is the major pathogenic microorganism responsible for bacterial diarrhea in neonatal piglets. The susceptibility of piglets to ETEC F4ac is determined by a specific receptor on the small intestinal epithelium surface. We performed an iTRAQ-labeled quantitative proteome analysis using a case-control design in which susceptible and resistant full-sib piglets were compared for the protein expression levels. Two thousand two hundred forty-nine proteins were identified, of which 245 were differentially expressed (fold change > 1.5, FDR-adjusted P < 0.05). The differentially expressed proteins fell into four functional classes: (I) cellular adhesion and binding, (II) metabolic process, (III) apoptosis and proliferation, and (IV) immune response. The integrin signaling pathway merited particular interest based on a pathway analysis using statistical overexpression and enrichment tests. Genomic locations of the integrin family genes were determined based on the most recent porcine genome sequence assembly (Sscrofa11.1). Only one gene, ITGB5, which encodes the integrin beta5 subunit that assorts with the alphav subunit to generate integrin alphavbeta5, was located within the SSC13q41 region between 13:133161078 and 13:139609422, where strong associations of markers with the ETEC F4ac susceptibility were found in our previous GWAS results. To identify whether integrin alphavbeta5 is the ETEC F4acR, we established an experimental model for bacterial adhesion using IPEC-J2 cells. Then, the ITGB5 gene was knocked out in IPEC-J2 cell lines using CRISPR/Cas9, resulting in a biallelic deletion cell line (ITGB5(-/-)). Disruption of ITGB5 significantly reduced ETEC F4ac adhesion to porcine intestinal epithelial cells. In contrast, overexpression of ITGB5 significantly enhanced the adhesion. A GST pull-down assay with purified FaeG and ITGB5 also showed that FaeG binds directly to ITGB5. Together, the results suggested that ITGB5 is a key factor affecting the susceptibility of piglets to ETEC F4ac.
PXD011044	31921382	Targeting the non-canonical roles of PCNA modifies and increases the response to targeted anti-cancer therapy. 	PCNA-targeting peptide modifies and increases the response to EGFR/HER2/VEGF inhibition in breast cancer cells	Combination therapy, ER- estrogen receptor, HER2/ERBB2- human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, PR- progesterone receptor, TNBC- triple negative b, autophagy, multi-targeting therapy, signaling pathways	Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), such as HER2 and/or EGFR are important therapeutic targets in multiple cancer cells. Low and/or short response to targeted therapies are often due to activation of compensatory signaling pathways, and therefore a combination of kinase inhibitors with other anti-cancer therapies have been proposed as promising strategies. PCNA is recently shown to have non-canonical cytosolic roles, and targeting PCNA with a cell-penetrating peptide containing the PCNA-interacting motif APIM is shown to mediate changes in central signaling pathways such as PI3K/Akt and MAPK, acting downstream of multiple RTKs. In this study, we show how targeting PCNA increased the anti-cancer activity of EGFR/HER2/VEGFR inhibition in vitro as well as in vivo. The combination treatment resulted in reduced tumor load and increased the survival compared to either single agent treatments. The combination treatment affected multiple cellular signaling responses not seen by EGFR/HER2/VEGFR inhibition alone, and changes were seen in pathways determining protein degradation, ER-stress, apoptosis and autophagy. Our results suggest that targeting the non-canonical roles of PCNA in cellular signaling have the potential to improve targeted therapies.
PXD015465	31921832	Unraveling the Molecular Signature of Extracellular Vesicles From Endometrial-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells: Potential Modulatory Effects and Therapeutic Applications. 	Multiplexed quantitative proteomics of  extracellular vesicles released by endMSCs (EV-endMSCs)	IFNgamma-primed, endometrial, extracellular vesicles, human  mesenchymal stem cells	Endometrial-derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells (endMSCs) are involved in the regeneration and remodeling of human endometrium, being considered one of the most promising candidates for stem cell-based therapies. Their therapeutic effects have been found to be mediated by extracellular vesicles (EV-endMSCs) with pro-angiogenic, anti-apoptotic, and immunomodulatory effects. Based on that, the main goal of this study was to characterize the proteome and microRNAome of these EV-endMSCs by proteomics and transcriptomics approaches. Additionally, we hypothesized that inflammatory priming of endMSCs may contribute to modify the therapeutic potential of these vesicles. High-throughput proteomics revealed that 617 proteins were functionally annotated as Extracellular exosome (GO:0070062), corresponding to the 70% of the EV-endMSC proteome. Bioinformatics analyses allowed us to identify that these proteins were involved in adaptive/innate immune response, complement activation, antigen processing/presentation, negative regulation of apoptosis, and different signaling pathways, among others. Of note, multiplexed quantitative proteomics and Systems Biology analyses showed that IFNgamma priming significantly modulated the protein profile of these vesicles. As expected, proteins involved in antigen processing and presentation were significantly increased. Interestingly, immunomodulatory proteins, such as CSF1, ERAP1, or PYCARD were modified. Regarding miRNAs expression profile in EV-endMSCs, Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) showed that the preferred site of microRNAome targeting was the nucleus (n = 371 microTargets), significantly affecting signal transduction (GO:0007165), cell proliferation (GO:0008283), and apoptotic processes (GO:0006915), among others. Interestingly, NGS analyses highlighted that several miRNAs, such as hsa-miR-150-5p or hsa-miR-196b-5p, were differentially expressed in IFNgamma-primed EV-endMSCs. These miRNAs have a functional involvement in glucocorticoid receptor signaling, IL-6/8/12 signaling, and in the role of macrophages. In summary, these results allowed us to understand the complexity of the molecular networks in EV-endMSCs and their potential effects on target cells. To our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive study based on proteomic and genomic approaches to unravel the therapeutic potential of these extracellular vesicles, that may be used as immunomodulatory effectors in the treatment of inflammatory conditions.
PXD015235	31921850	Multiple Layers of Phospho-Regulation Coordinate Metabolism and the Cell Cycle in Budding Yeast. 	Phosphoproteomic analyses of yeast cell cycle	cell cycle, phosphoproteome	The coordination of metabolism and growth with cell division is crucial for proliferation. While it has long been known that cell metabolism regulates the cell division cycle, it is becoming increasingly clear that the cell division cycle also regulates metabolism. In budding yeast, we previously showed that over half of all measured metabolites change concentration through the cell cycle indicating that metabolic fluxes are extensively regulated during cell cycle progression. However, how this regulation is achieved still remains poorly understood. Since both the cell cycle and metabolism are regulated to a large extent by protein phosphorylation, we here decided to measure the phosphoproteome through the budding yeast cell cycle. Specifically, we chose a cell cycle synchronization strategy that avoids stress and nutrient-related perturbations of metabolism, and we grew the yeast on ethanol minimal medium to force cells to utilize their full biosynthetic repertoire. Using a tandem-mass-tagging approach, we found over 200 sites on metabolic enzymes and transporters to be phospho-regulated. These sites were distributed among many pathways including carbohydrate catabolism, lipid metabolism, and amino acid synthesis and therefore likely contribute to changing metabolic fluxes through the cell cycle. Among all one thousand sites whose phosphorylation increases through the cell cycle, the CDK consensus motif and an arginine-directed motif were highly enriched. This arginine-directed R-R-x-S motif is associated with protein-kinase A, which regulates metabolism and promotes growth. Finally, we also found over one thousand sites that are dephosphorylated through the G1/S transition. We speculate that the phosphatase Glc7/PP1, known to regulate both the cell cycle and carbon metabolism, may play an important role because its regulatory subunits are phospho-regulated in our data. In summary, our results identify extensive cell cycle dependent phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of metabolic enzymes and suggest multiple mechanisms through which the cell division cycle regulates metabolic signaling pathways to temporally coordinate biosynthesis with distinct phases of the cell division cycle.
PXD017220	31922419	Aspirin Reshapes Acetylomes in Inflammatory and Cancer Cells via CoA-Dependent and CoA-Independent Pathways. 	Aspirin reshapes acetylomes in inflammatory and cancer cells via CoA-dependent and -independent pathways	Acetylation, Acetylome, Aspirin	Aspirin, or acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is the most widely used medication to relieve pain, fever, and inflammation. Recent studies have revealed new benefits of aspirin, including reduction of heart attack and stroke, anticancer, and life extension. Despite the profound effects of aspirin, the mechanism of its action remains to be elucidated. Here, we used deuterium-labeled aspirin (D-aspirin) together with mass spectrometry-based acetylomic analysis, termed DAcMS, to investigate the landscape of protein acetylation induced by aspirin. The DAcMS revealed the acetylomes of lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory BV2 cells and colon cancer HCT116 cells. The acetylation level was substantially induced upon aspirin treatment in both cell lines. In total, we identified 17,003 acetylation sites on 4623 proteins in BV2 cells and 16,366 acetylated sites corresponding to 4702 acetylated proteins in HCT116 cells. Importantly, functional analyses of these aspirin-induced acetylated proteins suggested that they were highly enriched in many key biological categories, which function importantly in inflammatory response. We further demonstrated that aspirin acetylates proteins through both acetyl-CoA-dependent and acetyl-CoA-independent pathways, and the accessible lysine residues at the protein surface are major acetylation targets of aspirin. Hence, our study provides the comprehensive atlas of aspirin-induced acetylome under disease conditions. This knowledge proffers new insight into the aspirin-directed acetylome and perhaps new drug target sites relevant to human cancer and inflammatory diseases. The MS data of this study have been deposited under the accession number IPX0001923000 at iProX.
PXD002296	31923584	Thiol based mechanism internalises interacting partners to outer dense fibers in sperm. 	Binding partners to Testis Specific Antigen, TSA70	MIF, ODF2, rat	The sperm tail outer dense fibres (ODFs) contribute passive structural role in sperm motility. The level of disulphide cross-linking of ODFs and their structural thickness determines flagellar bending curvature and motility. During epididymal maturation, proteins are internalized to modify ODF disulphide cross-linking and enable motility. Sperm thiol status is further altered during capacitation in female tract. This suggests that components in female reproductive tract acting on thiol/disulphides could be capable of modulating the tail stiffness to facilitate modulation of the sperm tail rigidity and waveform en route to fertilization. Understanding the biochemical properties and client proteins of ODFs in reproductive tract fluids will help bridge this gap. Using recombinant ODF2 (aka Testis Specific Antigen of 70 kDa) as bait, we identified client proteins in male and female reproductive fluids. A thiol-based interaction and internalization indicates sperm can harness reproductive tract fluids for proteins that interact with ODFs and likely modulate the tail stiffness en route to fertilization.
PXD013657	31924694	N-glycosylation Site Analysis Reveals Sex-related Differences in Protein N-glycosylation in the Rice Brown Planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens). 	Protein N-glycosylation is sex-related in Nilaparvata lugens adults	N-glycosylation sites, N-linked glycosylation, Nilaparvata lugens, pest insect	Glycosylation is a common modification of proteins and critical for a wide range of biological processes. Differences in protein glycosylation between sexes have already been observed in humans, nematodes and trematodes, and have recently also been reported in the rice pest insect Nilaparvata lugens Although protein N-glycosylation in insects is nowadays of high interest because of its potential for exploitation in pest control strategies, the functionality of differential N-glycosylation between sexes is yet unknown. In this study, therefore, the occurrence and role of sex-related protein N-glycosylation in insects were examined. A comprehensive investigation of the N-glycosylation sites from the adult stages of N. lugens was conducted, allowing a qualitative and quantitative comparison between sexes at the glycopeptide level. N-glycopeptide enrichment via lectin capturing using the high mannose/paucimannose-binding lectin Concanavalin A, or the Rhizoctonia solani agglutinin which interacts with complex N-glycans, resulted in the identification of over 1300 N-glycosylation sites derived from over 600 glycoproteins. Comparison of these N-glycopeptides revealed striking differences in protein N-glycosylation between sexes. Male- and female-specific N-glycosylation sites were identified, and some of these sex-specific N-glycosylation sites were shown to be derived from proteins with a putative role in insect reproduction. In addition, differential glycan composition between males and females was observed for proteins shared across sexes. Both lectin blotting experiments as well as transcript expression analyses with complete insects and insect tissues confirmed the observed differences in N-glycosylation of proteins between sexes. In conclusion, this study provides further evidence for protein N-glycosylation to be sex-related in insects. Furthermore, original data on N-glycosylation sites of N. lugens adults are presented, providing novel insights into planthopper's biology and information for future biological pest control strategies.
PXD016002	31924735	Proteomic Analysis of CSF from Patients with Leptomeningeal Melanoma Metastases Identifies Signatures Associated with Disease Progression and Therapeutic Resistance. 	Proteomic analysis of CSF from patients with leptomeningeal melanoma metastases identifies signatures associated with disease progression and therapeutic resistance	CSF, brain metastasis, melanoma	PURPOSE: The development of leptomeningeal melanoma metastases (LMM) is a rare and devastating complication of the late-stage disease, for which no effective treatments exist. Here, we performed a multi-omics analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with LMM to determine how the leptomeningeal microenvironment shapes the biology and therapeutic responses of melanoma cells. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A total of 45 serial CSF samples were collected from 16 patients, 8 of these with confirmed LMM. Of those with LMM, 7 had poor survival (<4 months) and one was an extraordinary responder (still alive with survival >35 months). CSF samples were analyzed by mass spectrometry and incubated with melanoma cells that were subjected to RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. Functional assays were performed to validate the pathways identified. RESULTS: Mass spectrometry analyses showed the CSF of most patients with LMM to be enriched for pathways involved in innate immunity, protease-mediated damage, and IGF-related signaling. All of these were anticorrelated in the extraordinary responder. RNA-seq analysis showed CSF to induce PI3K/AKT, integrin, B-cell activation, S-phase entry, TNFR2, TGFbeta, and oxidative stress responses in the melanoma cells. ELISA assays confirmed that TGFbeta expression increased in the CSF of patients progressing with LMM. CSF from poorly responding patients conferred tolerance to BRAF inhibitor therapy in apoptosis assays. CONCLUSIONS: These analyses identified proteomic/transcriptional signatures in the CSF of patients who succumbed to LMM. We further showed that the CSF from patients with LMM has the potential to modulate BRAF inhibitor responses and may contribute to drug resistance.See related commentary by Glitza Oliva and Tawbi, p. 2083.
PXD011680	31924745	Missing regions within the molecular architecture of human fibrin clots structurally resolved by XL-MS and integrative structural modeling. 	Intermolecular Architecture of Fibrin Clots and its Interaction INterface with Albumin	Albumin, DSSO, Docking, Fibrin, Fibrinogen, Modeling, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, XL-MS	Upon activation, fibrinogen forms large fibrin biopolymers that coalesce into clots which assist in wound healing. Limited insights into their molecular architecture, due to the sheer size and the insoluble character of fibrin clots, have restricted our ability to develop novel treatments for clotting diseases. The, so far resolved, disparate structural details have provided insights into linear elongation; however, molecular details like the C-terminal domain of the alpha-chain, the heparin-binding domain on the beta-chain, and other functional domains remain elusive. To illuminate these dark areas, we applied cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) to obtain biochemical evidence in the form of over 300 distance constraints and combined this with structural modeling. These restraints additionally define the interaction network of the clots and provide molecular details for the interaction with human serum albumin (HSA). We were able to construct the structural models of the fibrinogen alpha-chain (excluding two highly flexible regions) and the N termini of the beta-chain, confirm these models with known structural arrangements, and map how the structure laterally aggregates to form intricate lattices together with the gamma-chain. We validate the final model by mapping mutations leading to impaired clot formation. From a list of 22 mutations, we uncovered structural features for all, including a crucial role for betaArg'169 (UniProt: 196) in lateral aggregation. The resulting model can potentially serve for research on dysfibrinogenemia and amyloidosis as it provides insights into the molecular mechanisms of thrombosis and bleeding disorders related to fibrinogen variants. The structure is provided in the PDB-DEV repository (PDBDEV_00000030).
PXD016515	31924799	Posterior basolateral amygdala to ventral hippocampal CA1 drives approach behaviour to exert an anxiolytic effect. 	Mouse Brain LC-MSMS. To identify the heterogeneity of aBLA and pBLA.	Brain, Tissue	The basolateral amygdala (BLA) and ventral hippocampal CA1 (vCA1) are cellularly and functionally diverse along their anterior-posterior and superficial-deep axes. Here, we find that anterior BLA (aBLA) and posterior BLA (pBLA) innervate deep-layer calbindin1-negative (Calb1-) and superficial-layer calbindin1-positive neurons (Calb1+) in vCA1, respectively. Photostimulation of pBLA-vCA1 inputs has an anxiolytic effect in mice, promoting approach behaviours during conflict exploratory tasks. By contrast, stimulating aBLA-vCA1 inputs induces anxiety-like behaviour resulting in fewer approaches. During conflict stages of the elevated plus maze task vCA1(Calb1+) neurons are preferentially activated at the open-to-closed arm transition, and photostimulation of vCA1(Calb1+) neurons at decision-making zones promotes approach with fewer retreats. In the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, which shows anxiety-like behaviour, photostimulating the pBLA-vCA1(Calb1+) circuit ameliorates the anxiety in a Calb1-dependent manner. These findings suggest the pBLA-vCA1(Calb1+) circuit from heterogeneous BLA-vCA1 connections drives approach behaviour to reduce anxiety-like behaviour.
PXD007985	31926610	Deep Multilayer Brain Proteomics Identifies Molecular Networks in Alzheimer's Disease Progression. 	Deep Multilayer Tissue Proteomics Identifies Molecular Networks in Alzheimer???s Disease Progression, human data	A??, Alzheimer???s disease, RNA-seq, Tau, disease network, genome, genomics, netrin, phosphoproteome, systems biology, transcriptome	Alzheimer's disease (AD) displays a long asymptomatic stage before dementia. We characterize AD stage-associated molecular networks by profiling 14,513 proteins and 34,173 phosphosites in the human brain with mass spectrometry, highlighting 173 protein changes in 17 pathways. The altered proteins are validated in two independent cohorts, showing partial RNA dependency. Comparisons of brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid proteomes reveal biomarker candidates. Combining with 5xFAD mouse analysis, we determine 15 Abeta-correlated proteins (e.g., MDK, NTN1, SMOC1, SLIT2, and HTRA1). 5xFAD shows a proteomic signature similar to symptomatic AD but exhibits activation of autophagy and interferon response and lacks human-specific deleterious events, such as downregulation of neurotrophic factors and synaptic proteins. Multi-omics integration prioritizes AD-related molecules and pathways, including amyloid cascade, inflammation, complement, WNT signaling, TGF-beta and BMP signaling, lipid metabolism, iron homeostasis, and membrane transport. Some Abeta-correlated proteins are colocalized with amyloid plaques. Thus, the multilayer omics approach identifies protein networks during AD progression.
PXD016342	31927602	Mass spectrometry of in-gel digests reveals differences in amino acid sequences of high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits in spelt and emmer compared to common wheat. 	Mass spectrometry of in-gel digests reveals differences in amino acid sequences of high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits in spelt and emmer compared to common wheat	High-molecular weight glutenin subunits, SDS-PAGE, einkorn, emmer, spelt	High-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) play an important role for the baking quality of wheat. The ancient wheats emmer and spelt differ in their HMW-GS pattern compared to modern common wheat and this might be one reason for their comparatively poor baking quality. The aim of this study was to elucidate similarities and differences in the amino acid sequences of two 1Bx HMW-GS of common wheat, spelt and emmer. First, the sodium dodecyl polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) system was optimized to separate common wheat, spelt and emmer Bx6 and Bx7 from other HMW-GS (e.g., 1Ax and 1By) in high concentrations. The in-gel digests of the Bx6 and Bx7 bands were analyzed by untargeted LC-MS/MS experiments revealing different UniProtKB accessions in spelt and emmer compared to common wheat. The HMW-GS Bx6 and Bx7, respectively, of emmer and spelt showed differences in the amino acid sequences compared to those of common wheat. The identities of the peptide variations were confirmed by targeted LC-MS/MS. These peptides can be used to differentiate between Bx6 and Bx7 of spelt and emmer and Bx6 and Bx7 of common wheat. The findings should help to increase the reliability and curation status of wheat protein databases and to understand the effects of protein structure on the functional properties. Graphical abstract.
PXD015126	31928012	Proteomic Analysis of MYB-Regulated Secretome Identifies Functional Pathways and Biomarkers: Potential Pathobiological and Clinical Implications. 	MYB-regulated pancreatic cancer secretome	MYB, biomarkers, pancreatic cancer, secretome	Earlier we have shown important roles of MYB in pancreatic tumor pathobiology. To better understand the role of MYB in the tumor microenvironment and identify MYB-associated secreted biomarker proteins, we conducted mass spectrometry analysis of the secretome from MYB-modulated and control pancreatic cancer cell lines. We also performed in silico analyses to determine MYB-associated biofunctions, gene networks, and altered biological pathways. Our data demonstrated significant modulation (p < 0.05) of 337 secreted proteins in MYB-silenced MiaPaCa cells, whereas 282 proteins were differentially present in MYB-overexpressing BxPC3 cells, compared to their respective control cells. Alteration of several phenotypes such as cellular movement, cell death and survival, inflammatory response, protein synthesis, etc. was associated with MYB-induced differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in secretomes. DEPs from MYB-silenced MiaPaCa PC cells were suggestive of the downregulation of genes primarily associated with glucose metabolism, PI3K/AKT signaling, and oxidative stress response, among others. DEPs from MYB-overexpressing BxPC3 cells suggested the enhanced release of proteins associated with glucose metabolism and cellular motility. We also observed that MYB positively regulated the expression of four proteins with potential biomarker properties, i.e., FLNB, ENO1, ITGB1, and INHBA. Mining of publicly available databases using Oncomine and UALCAN demonstrated that these genes are overexpressed in pancreatic tumors and associated with reduced patient survival. Altogether, these data provide novel avenues for future investigations on diverse biological functions of MYB, specifically in the tumor microenvironment, and could also be exploited for biomarker development.
PXD016661	31930741	FAM134B oligomerization drives endoplasmic reticulum membrane scission for ER-phagy. 	FAM134B oligomerization drives ER membrane scission for ER-phagy	CAMK2B, ER stress, ER-phagy, FAM134B oligomerization, membrane fragmentation	Degradation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by selective autophagy (ER-phagy) is crucial for ER homeostasis. However, it remains unclear how ER scission is regulated for subsequent autophagosomal sequestration and lysosomal degradation. Here, we show that oligomerization of ER-phagy receptor FAM134B (also referred to as reticulophagy regulator 1 or RETREG1) through its reticulon-homology domain is required for membrane fragmentation in vitro and ER-phagy in vivo. Under ER-stress conditions, activated CAMK2B phosphorylates the reticulon-homology domain of FAM134B, which enhances FAM134B oligomerization and activity in membrane fragmentation to accommodate high demand for ER-phagy. Unexpectedly, FAM134B G216R, a variant derived from a type II hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy (HSAN) patient, exhibits gain-of-function defects, such as hyperactive self-association and membrane scission, which results in excessive ER-phagy and sensory neuron death. Therefore, this study reveals a mechanism of ER membrane fragmentation in ER-phagy, along with a signaling pathway in regulating ER turnover, and suggests a potential implication of excessive selective autophagy in human diseases.
PXD014578	31930742	Rhomboid intramembrane protease YqgP licenses bacterial membrane protein quality control as adaptor of FtsH AAA protease. 	Rhomboid mediates membrane protein quality control as an intramembrane protease and adaptor of AAA protease.	Bacillus subtilis, ER associated degradation, GeLC-MS/MS, Intramembrane protease, TripleTOF 5600, lipid membrane, magnesium, manganese, proteostasis, rhomboid protease, transporter, zinc	Magnesium homeostasis is essential for life and depends on magnesium transporters, whose activity and ion selectivity need to be tightly controlled. Rhomboid intramembrane proteases pervade the prokaryotic kingdom, but their functions are largely elusive. Using proteomics, we find that Bacillus subtilis rhomboid protease YqgP interacts with the membrane-bound ATP-dependent processive metalloprotease FtsH and cleaves MgtE, the major high-affinity magnesium transporter in B. subtilis. MgtE cleavage by YqgP is potentiated in conditions of low magnesium and high manganese or zinc, thereby protecting B. subtilis from Mn(2+) /Zn(2+) toxicity. The N-terminal cytosolic domain of YqgP binds Mn(2+) and Zn(2+) ions and facilitates MgtE cleavage. Independently of its intrinsic protease activity, YqgP acts as a substrate adaptor for FtsH, a function that is necessary for degradation of MgtE. YqgP thus unites protease and pseudoprotease function, hinting at the evolutionary origin of rhomboid pseudoproteases such as Derlins that are intimately involved in eukaryotic ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Conceptually, the YqgP-FtsH system we describe here is analogous to a primordial form of "ERAD" in bacteria and exemplifies an ancestral function of rhomboid-superfamily proteins.
PXD039272	31932422	Trop2 is a driver of metastatic prostate cancer with neuroendocrine phenotype via PARP1. 	Proteomics Analysis of Trop2 Xenograft Prostate Tumors	Trop2, mice, prostate cancer, xenograft	Resistance to androgen deprivation therapy, or castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), is often accompanied by metastasis and is currently the ultimate cause of prostate cancer-associated deaths in men. Recently, secondary hormonal therapies have led to an increase of neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC), a highly aggressive variant of CRPC. Here, we identify that high levels of cell surface receptor Trop2 are predictive of recurrence of localized prostate cancer. Moreover, Trop2 is significantly elevated in CRPC and NEPC, drives prostate cancer growth, and induces neuroendocrine phenotype. Overexpression of Trop2 induces tumor growth and metastasis while loss of Trop2 suppresses these abilities in vivo. Trop2-driven NEPC displays a significant up-regulation of PARP1, and PARP inhibitors significantly delay tumor growth and metastatic colonization and reverse neuroendocrine features in Trop2-driven NEPC. Our findings establish Trop2 as a driver and therapeutic target for metastatic prostate cancer with neuroendocrine phenotype and suggest that high Trop2 levels could identify cancers that are sensitive to Trop2-targeting therapies and PARP1 inhibition.
PXD014205	31932444	Anaerobic peroxisomes in Mastigamoeba balamuthi. 	Evolution Anaerobic peroxisome in Mastigamoeba balamuthi	Mastigamoeba balamuthi, Peroxisome, anaerobiosis	The adaptation of eukaryotic cells to anaerobic conditions is reflected by substantial changes to mitochondrial metabolism and functional reduction. Hydrogenosomes belong among the most modified mitochondrial derivative and generate molecular hydrogen concomitant with ATP synthesis. The reduction of mitochondria is frequently associated with loss of peroxisomes, which compartmentalize pathways that generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) and thus protect against cellular damage. The biogenesis and function of peroxisomes are tightly coupled with mitochondria. These organelles share fission machinery components, oxidative metabolism pathways, ROS scavenging activities, and some metabolites. The loss of peroxisomes in eukaryotes with reduced mitochondria is thus not unexpected. Surprisingly, we identified peroxisomes in the anaerobic, hydrogenosome-bearing protist Mastigamoeba balamuthi We found a conserved set of peroxin (Pex) proteins that are required for protein import, peroxisomal growth, and division. Key membrane-associated Pexs (MbPex3, MbPex11, and MbPex14) were visualized in numerous vesicles distinct from hydrogenosomes, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and Golgi complex. Proteomic analysis of cellular fractions and prediction of peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS1/PTS2) identified 51 putative peroxisomal matrix proteins. Expression of selected proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae revealed specific targeting to peroxisomes. The matrix proteins identified included components of acyl-CoA and carbohydrate metabolism and pyrimidine and CoA biosynthesis, whereas no components related to either beta-oxidation or catalase were present. In conclusion, we identified a subclass of peroxisomes, named "anaerobic" peroxisomes that shift the current paradigm and turn attention to the reductive evolution of peroxisomes in anaerobic organisms.
PXD014077	31932510	LAX28 is required for the stable assembly of the inner dynein arm f complex, and the tether and tether head complex in Leishmania flagella. 	Proteomic dissection of CFAP44 deficient axonemes	CFAP44, Leishmania, axoneme, flagellum	Motile eukaryotic flagella beat through coordinated activity of dynein motor proteins; however, the mechanisms of dynein coordination and regulation are incompletely understood. The inner dynein arm (IDA) f complex (also known as the I1 complex), and the tether and tether head (T/TH) complex are thought to be key regulators of dynein action but, unlike the IDA f complex, T/TH proteins remain poorly characterised. Here, we characterised T/TH-associated proteins in the protist Leishmania mexicana Proteome analysis of axonemes from null mutants for the CFAP44 T/TH protein showed that they lacked the IDA f protein IC140 and a novel 28-kDa axonemal protein, LAX28. Sequence analysis identified similarities between LAX28 and the uncharacterised human sperm tail protein TEX47, both sharing features with sensory BLUF-domain-containing proteins. Leishmania lacking LAX28, CFAP44 or IC140 retained some motility, albeit with reduced swimming speed and directionality and a propensity for flagellar curling. Expression of tagged proteins in different null mutant backgrounds showed that the axonemal localisation of LAX28 requires CFAP44 and IC140, and the axonemal localisations of CFAP44 and IC140 both depend on LAX28. These data demonstrate a role for LAX28 in motility and show mutual dependencies of IDA f and T/TH-associated proteins for axonemal assembly in Leishmania.
PXD015479	31932738	The LC3-conjugation machinery specifies the loading of RNA-binding proteins into extracellular vesicles. 	LC-MSMS of cell secretome for MAP1LC3B interactors	BirA, Proximity-tagged MS, autophagy, exosome, secretome	Traditionally viewed as an autodigestive pathway, autophagy also facilitates cellular secretion; however, the mechanisms underlying these processes remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that components of the autophagy machinery specify secretion within extracellular vesicles (EVs). Using a proximity-dependent biotinylation proteomics strategy, we identify 200 putative targets of LC3-dependent secretion. This secretome consists of a highly interconnected network enriched in RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and EV cargoes. Proteomic and RNA profiling of EVs identifies diverse RBPs and small non-coding RNAs requiring the LC3-conjugation machinery for packaging and secretion. Focusing on two RBPs, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRNPK) and scaffold-attachment factor B (SAFB), we demonstrate that these proteins interact with LC3 and are secreted within EVs enriched with lipidated LC3. Furthermore, their secretion requires the LC3-conjugation machinery, neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2) and LC3-dependent recruitment of factor associated with nSMase2 activity (FAN). Hence, the LC3-conjugation pathway controls EV cargo loading and secretion.
PXD012201	31932812	The phosphatase PAC1 acts as a T cell suppressor and attenuates host antitumor immunity. 	Identification of PAC1 interactome in activated T cells	PAC1, T cells, interactome	Cancer cells subvert immune surveillance through inhibition of T cell effector function. Elucidation of the mechanism of T cell dysfunction is therefore central to cancer immunotherapy. Here, we report that dual specificity phosphatase 2 (DUSP2; also known as phosphatase of activated cells 1, PAC1) acts as an immune checkpoint in T cell antitumor immunity. PAC1 is selectively upregulated in exhausted tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and is associated with poor prognosis of patients with cancer. PAC1(hi) effector T cells lose their proliferative and effector capacities and convert into exhausted T cells. Deletion of PAC1 enhances immune responses and reduces cancer susceptibility in mice. Through activation of EGR1, excessive reactive oxygen species in the tumor microenvironment induce expression of PAC1, which recruits the Mi-2beta nucleosome-remodeling and histone-deacetylase complex, eventually leading to chromatin remodeling of effector T cells. Our study demonstrates that PAC1 is an epigenetic immune regulator and highlights the importance of targeting PAC1 in cancer immunotherapy.
PXD017022	31934863	TRF1 averts chromatin remodelling, recombination and replication dependent-break induced replication at mouse telomeres. 	TRF1 averts chromatin remodelling, recombination and replication dependent-Break Induced Replication at mouse telomeres	Embryonic Fibroblasts, Mus Musculus, Shelterin complex, Teleomere	Telomeres are a significant challenge to DNA replication and are prone to replication stress and telomere fragility. The shelterin component TRF1 facilitates telomere replication but the molecular mechanism remains uncertain. By interrogating the proteomic composition of telomeres, we show that mouse telomeres lacking TRF1 undergo protein composition reorganisation associated with the recruitment of DNA damage response and chromatin remodellers. Surprisingly, mTRF1 suppresses the accumulation of promyelocytic leukemia (PML) protein, BRCA1 and the SMC5/6 complex at telomeres, which is associated with increased Homologous Recombination (HR) and TERRA transcription. We uncovered a previously unappreciated role for mTRF1 in the suppression of telomere recombination, dependent on SMC5 and also POLD3 dependent Break Induced Replication at telomeres. We propose that TRF1 facilitates S-phase telomeric DNA synthesis to prevent illegitimate mitotic DNA recombination and chromatin rearrangement.
PXD016918	31935065	Middle-Down Proteomic Analyses with Ion Mobility Separations of Endogenous Isomeric Proteoforms. 	Middle-Down Proteomic Analyses with Ion Mobility Separations of Endogenous Isomeric Proteoforms	ETD, FAIMS, histones, middle down	Biological functions of many proteins are governed by post-translational modifications (PTMs). In particular, the rich PTM complement in histones controls the gene expression and chromatin structure with major health implications via a combinatoric language. Deciphering that "histone code" is the great challenge for proteomics given an astounding number of possible proteoforms, including isomers with different PTM positions. These must be disentangled on the top- or middle-down level to preserve the key PTM connectivity, which condensed-phase separations failed to achieve. We reported the capability of ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) methods to resolve such isomers for model histone tails. Here, we advance to biological samples, showing middle-down analyses of histones from mouse embryonic stem cells via online chromatography to fractionate proteoforms with distinct PTM sets, differential or field asymmetric waveform IMS (FAIMS) to resolve the isomers, and Orbitrap mass spectrometry with electron transfer dissociation to identify the resolved species.
PXD014123	31935371	An Integrated Gene Expression Landscape Profiling Approach to Identify Lung Tumor Endothelial Cell Heterogeneity and Angiogenic Candidates. 	An integrated approach to profile lung tumor endothelial cell heterogeneity across species and models and to identify angiogenic candidates	angiogenesis, anti-angiogenic therapy, cancer, endothelial cells, endothelial heterogeneity, multi-omics, single cell RNA-sequencing	Heterogeneity of lung tumor endothelial cell (TEC) phenotypes across patients, species (human/mouse), and models (in vivo/in vitro) remains poorly inventoried at the single-cell level. We single-cell RNA (scRNA)-sequenced 56,771 endothelial cells from human/mouse (peri)-tumoral lung and cultured human lung TECs, and detected 17 known and 16 previously unrecognized phenotypes, including TECs putatively regulating immune surveillance. We resolved the canonical tip TECs into a known migratory tip and a putative basement-membrane remodeling breach phenotype. Tip TEC signatures correlated with patient survival, and tip/breach TECs were most sensitive to vascular endothelial growth factor blockade. Only tip TECs were congruent across species/models and shared conserved markers. Integrated analysis of the scRNA-sequenced data with orthogonal multi-omics and meta-analysis data across different human tumors, validated by functional analysis, identified collagen modification as a candidate angiogenic pathway.
PXD015814	31936872	Antimicrobial Activity of Protein Fraction from Naja ashei Venom Against Staphylococcus epidermidis. 	Naja ashei venom fractionation using IEX chromatography	Ig-like domain-containing proteins, Naja ashei, venom	One of the key problems of modern infectious disease medicine is the growing number of drug-resistant and multi-drug-resistant bacterial strains. For this reason, many studies are devoted to the search for highly active antimicrobial substances that could be used in therapy against bacterial infections. As it turns out, snake venoms are a rich source of proteins that exert a strong antibacterial effect, and therefore they have become an interesting research material. We analyzed Naja ashei venom for such antibacterial properties, and we found that a specific composition of proteins can act to eliminate individual bacterial cells, as well as the entire biofilm of Staphylococcus epidermidis. In general, we used ion exchange chromatography (IEX) to obtain 10 protein fractions with different levels of complexity, which were then tested against certified and clinical strains of S. epidermidis. One of the fractions (F2) showed exceptional antimicrobial effects both alone and in combination with antibiotics. The protein composition of the obtained fractions was determined using mass spectrometry techniques, indicating a high proportion of phospholipases A2, three-finger toxins, and L-amino acids oxidases in F2 fraction, which are most likely responsible for the unique properties of this fraction. Moreover, we were able to identify a new group of low abundant proteins containing the Ig-like domain that have not been previously described in snake venoms.
PXD015216	31937588	Oxygen-dependent asparagine hydroxylation of the ubiquitin-associated (UBA) domain in Cezanne regulates ubiquitin binding. 	Asparagine hydroxylation of the UBA domain in Cezanne (OTUD7B)	Cezanne, Deubiquitinases, Hydroxylation, OTU7B	Deubiquitinases (DUBs) are vital for the regulation of ubiquitin signals, and both catalytic activity of and target recruitment by DUBs need to be tightly controlled. Here, we identify asparagine hydroxylation as a novel posttranslational modification involved in the regulation of Cezanne (also known as OTU domain-containing protein 7B (OTUD7B)), a DUB that controls key cellular functions and signaling pathways. We demonstrate that Cezanne is a substrate for factor inhibiting HIF1 (FIH1)- and oxygen-dependent asparagine hydroxylation. We found that FIH1 modifies Asn(35) within the uncharacterized N-terminal ubiquitin-associated (UBA)-like domain of Cezanne (UBA(Cez)), which lacks conserved UBA domain properties. We show that UBA(Cez) binds Lys(11)-, Lys(48)-, Lys(63)-, and Met(1)-linked ubiquitin chains in vitro, establishing UBA(Cez) as a functional ubiquitin-binding domain. Our findings also reveal that the interaction of UBA(Cez) with ubiquitin is mediated via a noncanonical surface and that hydroxylation of Asn(35) inhibits ubiquitin binding. Recently, it has been suggested that Cezanne recruitment to specific target proteins depends on UBA(Cez) Our results indicate that UBA(Cez) can indeed fulfill this role as regulatory domain by binding various ubiquitin chain types. They also uncover that this interaction with ubiquitin, and thus with modified substrates, can be modulated by oxygen-dependent asparagine hydroxylation, suggesting that Cezanne is regulated by oxygen levels.
PXD012797	31937595	Guidance Document: Validation of a High-Performance Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry Immunopeptidomics Assay for the Identification of HLA Class I Ligands Suitable for Pharmaceutical Therapies. 	Validation of a high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry immunopeptidomics assay for the identification of HLA ligands suitable for pharmaceutical therapies	GMP, Immunopeptidome, LC-MS/MS, cancer immunotherapy, validation	For more than two decades naturally presented, human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-restricted peptides (immunopeptidome) have been eluted and sequenced using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Since, identified disease-associated HLA ligands have been characterized and evaluated as potential active substances. Treatments based on HLA-presented peptides have shown promising results in clinical application as personalized T cell-based immunotherapy. Peptide vaccination cocktails are produced as investigational medicinal products under GMP conditions. To support clinical trials based on HLA-presented tumor-associated antigens, in this study the sensitive LC-MS/MS HLA class I antigen identification pipeline was fully validated for our technical equipment according to the current US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA) guidelines.The immunopeptidomes of JY cells with or without spiked-in, isotope labeled peptides, of peripheral blood mononuclear cells of healthy volunteers as well as a chronic lymphocytic leukemia and a bladder cancer sample were reliably identified using a data-dependent acquisition method. As the LC-MS/MS pipeline is used for identification purposes, the validation parameters include accuracy, precision, specificity, limit of detection and robustness.
PXD014514	31937683	The Arabidopsis Protein CGL20 Is Required for Plastid 50S Ribosome Biogenesis. 	The Arabidopsis Protein CONSERVED ONLY IN THE GREEN LINEAGE20 is Required for Plastid 50S Ribosome Biogenesis	CGL20, plastid ribosome biogenesis	Biogenesis of plastid ribosomes is facilitated by auxiliary factors that process and modify ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs) or are involved in ribosome assembly. In comparison with their bacterial and mitochondrial counterparts, the biogenesis of plastid ribosomes is less well understood, and few auxiliary factors have been described so far. In this study, we report the functional characterization of CONSERVED ONLY IN THE GREEN LINEAGE20 (CGL20) in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; AtCGL20), which is a Pro-rich, ~10-kD protein that is targeted to mitochondria and chloroplasts. In Arabidopsis, CGL20 is encoded by segmentally duplicated genes of high sequence similarity (AtCGL20A and AtCGL20B). Inactivation of these genes in the atcgl20ab mutant led to a visible virescent phenotype and growth arrest at low temperature. The chloroplast proteome, pigment composition, and photosynthetic performance were significantly affected in atcgl20ab mutants. Loss of AtCGL20 impaired plastid translation, perturbing the formation of a hidden break in the 23S rRNA and causing abnormal accumulation of 50S ribosomal subunits in the high-molecular-mass fraction of chloroplast stromal extracts. Moreover, AtCGL20A-eGFP fusion proteins comigrated with 50S ribosomal subunits in Suc density gradients, even after RNase treatment of stromal extracts. Therefore, we propose that AtCGL20 participates in the late stages of the biogenesis of 50S ribosomal subunits in plastids, a role that presumably evolved in the green lineage as a consequence of structural divergence of plastid ribosomes.
PXD016606	31937912	Endoplasmic reticulum-derived bodies enable a single-cell chemical defense in Brassicaceae plants. 	Identification of Arabidopsis NAI2 complex	ER body, NAI2	Brassicaceae plants have a dual-cell type of chemical defense against herbivory. Here, we show a novel single-cell defense involving endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived organelles (ER bodies) and the vacuoles. We identify various glucosinolates as endogenous substrates of the ER-body beta-glucosidases BGLU23 and BGLU21. Woodlice strongly prefer to eat seedlings of bglu23 bglu21 or a glucosinolate-deficient mutant over wild-type seedlings, confirming that the beta-glucosidases have a role in chemical defense: production of toxic compounds upon organellar damage. Deficiency of the Brassicaceae-specific protein NAI2 prevents ER-body formation, which results in a loss of BGLU23 and a loss of resistance to woodlice. Hence, NAI2 that interacts with BGLU23 is essential for sequestering BGLU23 in ER bodies and preventing its degradation. Artificial expression of NAI2 and BGLU23 in non-Brassicaceae plants results in the formation of ER bodies, indicating that acquisition of NAI2 by Brassicaceae plants is a key step in developing their single-cell defense system.
PXD015651	31938061	Proteomic analysis of intracellular protein corona of nanoparticles elucidates nano-trafficking network and nano-bio interactions. 	Intracellular proteins adsorbed on AuNPs during transcytosis and exocytosis	AuNPs, Caco-2, exocytosis, protein corona, transcytosis	The merits of nanomedicines are significantly impacted by the surrounding biological environment. Similar to the protein corona generated on the surface of nanoparticles in the circulation system, the intracellular protein corona (IPC) might be formed on nanoparticles when transported inside the cells. However, little is known currently about the formation of IPC and its possible biological influence. Methods: Caco-2 cells, a classical epithelial cell line, were cultured in Transwell plates to form a monolayer. Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) were prepared as the model nanomedicine due to their excellent stability. Here we focused on identifying IPC formed on the surface of AuNPs during cell transport. The nanoparticles in the basolateral side of the Caco-2 monolayer were collected and analyzed by multiple techniques to verify IPC formation. High-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based proteomics was utilized to analyze the composition of IPC proteins. In particular, we established a dual-filtration strategy to exclude various interference in IPC identification. Based on the subcellular localization of specific IPC proteins, we elicited the nano-trafficking network of AuNPs. The transport pathways of AuNPs identified by proteomic analysis were also verified by various conventional technologies. Finally, we explored the influence of IPC on the uptake and stress response of endothelium. Results: The existence of IPC was demonstrated on the surface of AuNPs, in which 227 proteins were identified. Among them, 40 proteins were finally ascertained as the specific IPC proteins. The subcellular location analysis indicated that these "specific" IPC proteins could back-track the transport pathways of nanoparticles in the epithelial cell monolayer. According to the subcellular distribution of IPC proteins and co-localization, we discovered a new pathway of nanoparticles from endosomes to secretory vesicles which was dominant during the transcytosis. After employing conventional imageology and pharmacology strategies to verify the result of proteomic analysis, we mapped a comprehensive intracellular transport network. Our study also revealed the merits of IPC analysis, which could readily elucidate the molecular mechanisms of transcytosis. Besides, the IPC proteins increased the uptake and stress response of endothelium, which was likely mediated by extracellular matrix and mitochondrion-related IPC proteins. Conclusion: The comprehensive proteomic analysis of IPC enabled tracing of transport pathways in epithelial cells as well as revealing the biological impact of nanoparticles on endothelium.
PXD017019	31939735	Cardiac mitochondrial function depends on BUD23 mediated ribosome programming. 	The role of Bud23 in mouse heart tissue	Bud23, Heart	Efficient mitochondrial function is required in tissues with high energy demand such as the heart, and mitochondrial dysfunction is associated with cardiovascular disease. Expression of mitochondrial proteins is tightly regulated in response to internal and external stimuli. Here we identify a novel mechanism regulating mitochondrial content and function, through BUD23-dependent ribosome generation. BUD23 was required for ribosome maturation, normal 18S/28S stoichiometry and modulated the translation of mitochondrial transcripts in human A549 cells. Deletion of Bud23 in murine cardiomyocytes reduced mitochondrial content and function, leading to severe cardiomyopathy and death. We discovered that BUD23 selectively promotes ribosomal interaction with low GC-content 5'UTRs. Taken together we identify a critical role for BUD23 in bioenergetics gene expression, by promoting efficient translation of mRNA transcripts with low 5'UTR GC content. BUD23 emerges as essential to mouse development, and to postnatal cardiac function.
PXD012133	31940168	Evaluating Combined Precursor Isotopic Labeling and Isobaric Tagging Performance on Orbitraps To Study the Peripheral Proteome of Alzheimer's Disease. 	Evaluating cPILOT Performance on Orbitrap Instruments	Alzheimers disease, Fusion Lumos, cPILOT, multiplexing	Combined precursor isotopic labeling and isobaric tagging (cPILOT) is an enhanced multiplexing strategy currently capable of analyzing up to 24 samples simultaneously. This capability is especially helpful when studying multiple tissues and biological replicates in models of disease, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, cPILOT was used to study proteomes from heart, liver, and brain tissues in a late-stage amyloid precursor protein/presenilin-1 (APP/PS-1) human transgenic double-knock-in mouse model of AD. The original global cPILOT assay developed on an Orbitrap Velos instrument was transitioned to an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos instrument. The advantages of faster scan rates, lower limits of detection, and synchronous precursor selection on the Fusion Lumos afford greater numbers of isobarically tagged peptides to be quantified in comparison to the Orbitrap Velos. Parameters such as LC gradient, m/z isolation window, dynamic exclusion, targeted mass analyses, and synchronous precursor scan were optimized leading to >600 000 PSMs, corresponding to 6074 proteins. Overall, these studies inform of system-wide changes in brain, heart, and liver proteins from a mouse model of AD.
PXD009047	31940282	The influence of hypoxia on the prostate cancer proteome. 	The use of Nitric Oxide as a Radiosensitiser of Hypoxic Prostate Cancer Characterized by Data Independent Label-free Ion Mobility LC-MS	human PC-3  DIA ion mobility prostate cancer	Prostate cancer accounts for around 15% of male deaths in Western Europe and is the second leading cause of cancer death in men after lung cancer. Mounting evidence suggests that prostate cancer deposits exist within a hypoxic environment and this contributes to radio-resistance thus hampering one of the major therapies for this cancer. Recent reports have shown that nitric oxide (NO) donating non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduced tumour hypoxia as well as maintaining a radio-sensitising/therapeutic effect on prostate cancer cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of hypoxia on the proteome of the prostate and to establish whether NO-NSAID treatment reverted the protein profiles back to their normoxic status. To this end an established hormone insensitive prostate cancer cell line, PC-3, was cultured under hypoxic and normoxic conditions before and following exposure to NO-NSAID in combination with selected other common prostate cancer treatment types. The extracted proteins were analysed by ion mobility-assisted data independent acquisition mass spectrometry (MS), combined with multivariate statistical analyses, to measure hypoxia-induced alterations in the proteome of these cells. The analyses demonstrated that under hypoxic conditions there were well-defined, significantly regulated/differentially expressed proteins primarily involved with structural and binding processes including, for example, TUBB4A, CIRP and PLOD1. Additionally, the exposure of hypoxic cells to NSAID and NO-NSAID agents, resulted in some of these proteins being differentially expressed; for example, both PCNA and HNRNPA1L were down-regulated, corresponding with disruption in the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling process.
PXD016303	31940440	Alterations of Brain Quantitative Proteomics Profiling Revealed the Molecular Mechanisms of Diosgenin against Cerebral Ischemia Reperfusion Effects. 	Alterations of brain quantitative proteomics profiling revealed the molecular mechanisms of diosgenin against cerebral ischemia reperfusion effects	Diosgenin, HIKESHI, STAT2, anti-inflammatory, cerebral ischemic reperfusion	Diosgenin (DIO), the starting material for the synthesis of steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the pharmaceutical industry, has been previously demonstrated to display pharmaceutical effects against cerebral ischemic reperfusion (I/R). However, the alterations of brain proteome profiles underlying this treatment remain elusive. In the present study, the proteomics analysis of the brain tissues from I/R rats after DIO treatment was performed using an integrated TMT-based quantitative proteomic approach coupled with the liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry technology. A total of 5043 proteins (ProteomeXchange identifier: PXD016303) were identified, of which 58 common differentially expressed proteins were significantly dysregulated in comparison between sham versus I/R and I/R versus DIO. The eight validated proteins including EPG5, STAT2, CPT1A, EIF2AK2, GGCT, HIKESHI, TNFAIP8, and EMC6 by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blotting consistently supported the TMT-based proteomic results, which were mainly associated with autophagy and inflammation response. Considering the anti-inflammatory characters of DIO, the biological functions of STAT2 and HIKESHI that are the probable direct anti-inflammatory targets were further investigated during the course of I/R treated with DIO. In addition, the combination of verified STAT2 and HIKESHI in peripheral blood samples from stroke patients resulted in the area under the curve value of 0.765 with P < 0.004 to distinguish stroke patients from healthy controls. Taken together, the current findings first mapped comprehensive proteomic changes after I/R was treated with DIO to better decipher the molecular mechanisms mainly based on the anti-inflammatory aspect underlying this therapeutic effect, providing a foundation for developing potentially therapeutic targets of anti-I/R of DIO and clinically prognostic biomarkers of stroke.
PXD016344	31940921	Growth Mode and Physiological State of Cells Prior to Biofilm Formation Affect Immune Evasion and Persistence of Staphylococcus aureus. 	Staphylococcus aureus surface LC-MS/MS analysis	Aureus, Bacteria, Biofilm, Staphylococcus, Surface, Surfaceome	The present study investigated Staphylococcus aureus ATCC25923 surfaceomes (cell surface proteins) during prolonged growth by subjecting planktonic and biofilm cultures (initiated from exponential or stationary cells) to label-free quantitative surfaceomics and phenotypic confirmations. The abundance of adhesion, autolytic, hemolytic, and lipolytic proteins decreased over time in both growth modes, while an opposite trend was detected for many tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging, Fe-S repair, and peptidolytic moonlighters. In planktonic cells, these changes were accompanied by decreasing and increasing adherence to hydrophobic surface and fibronectin, respectively. Specific RNA/DNA binding (cold-shock protein CspD and ribosomal proteins) and the immune evasion (SpA, ClfA, and IsaB) proteins were notably more abundant on fully mature biofilms initiated with stationary-phase cells (SDBF) compared to biofilms derived from exponential cells (EDBF) or equivalent planktonic cells. The fully matured SDBF cells demonstrated higher viability in THP-1 monocyte/macrophage cells compared to the EDBF cells. Peptidoglycan strengthening, specific urea-cycle, and detoxification enzymes were more abundant on planktonic than biofilm cells, indicating the activation of growth-mode specific pathways during prolonged cultivation. Thus, we show that S. aureus shapes its surfaceome in a growth mode-dependent manner to reach high levofloxacin tolerance (>200-times the minimum biofilm inhibitory concentration). This study also demonstrates that the phenotypic state of the cells prior to biofilm formation affects the immune-evasion and persistence-related traits of S. aureus.
PXD014522	31941798	Discovery of Species-unique Peptide Biomarkers of Bacterial Pathogens by Tandem Mass Spectrometry-based Proteotyping. 	Discovery of species-unique peptide biomarkers of bacterial pathogens by tandem mass spectrometry-based proteotyping	Bacteria, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, proteotyping	Mass spectrometry (MS) and proteomics offer comprehensive characterization and identification of microorganisms and discovery of protein biomarkers that are applicable for diagnostics of infectious diseases. The use of biomarkers for diagnostics is widely applied in the clinic and the use of peptide biomarkers is increasingly being investigated for applications in the clinical laboratory. Respiratory-tract infections are a predominant cause for medical treatment, although, clinical assessments and standard clinical laboratory protocols are time-consuming and often inadequate for reliable diagnoses. Novel methods, preferably applied directly to clinical samples, excluding cultivation steps, are needed to improve diagnostics of infectious diseases, provide adequate treatment and reduce the use of antibiotics and associated development of antibiotic resistance. This study applied nano-liquid chromatography (LC) coupled with tandem MS, with a bioinformatics pipeline and an in-house database of curated high-quality reference genome sequences to identify species-unique peptides as potential biomarkers for four bacterial pathogens commonly found in respiratory tract infections (RTIs): Staphylococcus aureus; Moraxella catarrhalis; Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae The species-unique peptides were initially identified in pure cultures of bacterial reference strains, reflecting the genomic variation in the four species and, furthermore, in clinical respiratory tract samples, without prior cultivation, elucidating proteins expressed in clinical conditions of infection. For each of the four bacterial pathogens, the peptide biomarker candidates most predominantly found in clinical samples, are presented. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014522. As proof-of-principle, the most promising species-unique peptides were applied in targeted tandem MS-analyses of clinical samples and their relevance for identifications of the pathogens, i.e. proteotyping, was validated, thus demonstrating their potential as peptide biomarker candidates for diagnostics of infectious diseases.
PXD011062	31941829	Stromal cell protein kinase C-beta inhibition enhances chemosensitivity in B cell malignancies and overcomes drug resistance. 	Protein kinase C-beta regulates environment mediated drug resistance in B cell malignancies	EMDR, cancer, plasma membrane, stromal cells	Overcoming drug resistance remains a key challenge to cure patients with acute and chronic B cell malignancies. Here, we describe a stromal cell-autonomous signaling pathway, which contributes to drug resistance of malignant B cells. We show that protein kinase C (PKC)-beta-dependent signals from bone marrow-derived stromal cells markedly decrease the efficacy of cytotoxic therapies. Conversely, small-molecule PKC-beta inhibitors antagonize prosurvival signals from stromal cells and sensitize tumor cells to targeted and nontargeted chemotherapy, resulting in enhanced cytotoxicity and prolonged survival in vivo. Mechanistically, stromal PKC-beta controls the expression of adhesion and matrix proteins, required for activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-mediated stabilization of B cell lymphoma-extra large (BCL-XL) in tumor cells. Central to the stroma-mediated drug resistance is the PKC-beta-dependent activation of transcription factor EB, regulating lysosome biogenesis and plasma membrane integrity. Stroma-directed therapies, enabled by direct inhibition of PKC-beta, enhance the effectiveness of many antileukemic therapies.
PXD012837	31941886	Herpes simplex virus blocks host transcription termination via the bimodal activities of ICP27. 	IP-MS analysis                .	3' end processing, HSV, ICP27, Immunoprecipitation	Infection by viruses, including herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1), and cellular stresses cause widespread disruption of transcription termination (DoTT) of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) in host genes. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the HSV-1 immediate early protein ICP27 induces DoTT by directly binding to the essential mRNA 3' processing factor CPSF. It thereby induces the assembly of a dead-end 3' processing complex, blocking mRNA 3' cleavage. Remarkably, ICP27 also acts as a sequence-dependent activator of mRNA 3' processing for viral and a subset of host transcripts. Our results unravel a bimodal activity of ICP27 that plays a key role in HSV-1-induced host shutoff and identify CPSF as an important factor that mediates regulation of transcription termination. These findings have broad implications for understanding the regulation of transcription termination by other viruses, cellular stress and cancer.
PXD016522	31942620	A draft genome sequence of the elusive giant squid, Architeuthis dux. 	A draft genome sequence of the elusive giant squid, Architeuthis dux	Cephalopod, genome assembly, invertebrate	BACKGROUND: The giant squid (Architeuthis dux; Steenstrup, 1857) is an enigmatic giant mollusc with a circumglobal distribution in the deep ocean, except in the high Arctic and Antarctic waters. The elusiveness of the species makes it difficult to study. Thus, having a genome assembled for this deep-sea-dwelling species will allow several pending evolutionary questions to be unlocked. FINDINGS: We present a draft genome assembly that includes 200 Gb of Illumina reads, 4 Gb of Moleculo synthetic long reads, and 108 Gb of Chicago libraries, with a final size matching the estimated genome size of 2.7 Gb, and a scaffold N50 of 4.8 Mb. We also present an alternative assembly including 27 Gb raw reads generated using the Pacific Biosciences platform. In addition, we sequenced the proteome of the same individual and RNA from 3 different tissue types from 3 other species of squid (Onychoteuthis banksii, Dosidicus gigas, and Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis) to assist genome annotation. We annotated 33,406 protein-coding genes supported by evidence, and the genome completeness estimated by BUSCO reached 92%. Repetitive regions cover 49.17% of the genome. CONCLUSIONS: This annotated draft genome of A. dux provides a critical resource to investigate the unique traits of this species, including its gigantism and key adaptations to deep-sea environments.
PXD016926	31942794	Global Metabolomic and Lipidomic Analysis Reveal the Synergistic Effect of Bufalin in Combination with Cinobufagin against HepG2 Cells. 	Global Metabolomic and Lipidomic Analysis Reveal the Synergistic Effect of Bufalin in Combination with Cinobufagin against HepG2 Cells	Bufalin, Cinobufagin, Combination treatment., Lipidomics, Metabolomics	Chansu, which is prepared from the skin secretions of toad (Bufo bufo gargarizans Cantor), is widely used in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Being the principal bioactive constituents of Chansu, bufalin (BFL) and cinobufagin (CBF) have been shown to possess anticancer properties. TCM confers bioactivities through the synergistic effect between potential active ingredients, so as to interfere with the development of the disease, and ultimately achieve the therapeutic effect. We found that the anticancer effect was significantly potentiated by cotreatment with BFL and CBF compared to monotreatment, suggesting their synergistic interaction. To reveal their synergistic mechanisms, metabolomic and lipidomic profiling based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was utilized to delineate the responses in HepG2 cells after treatment with BFL and CBF individually or in combination. Metabolic pathways, including methionine metabolism, energy metabolism, lipid metabolism, and amino acid metabolism, were modulated and subsequently led to apoptosis and cell cycle arrest of HepG2 cells. In particular, the discrepant regulation of methionine metabolism between the monotreatment and cotreatment with BFL and CBF may account for their synergistic effect. Our study provided novel insights into the mechanistic links between cellular metabolism and the synergistic effect, which may ultimately lead to better treatments for hepatoma.
PXD012480	31943574	Combined Expression of Plasma Thrombospondin-2 and CA19-9 for Diagnosis of Pancreatic Cancer and Distal Cholangiocarcinoma: A Proteome Approach. 	Combined expression of plasma CA19-9 and thrombospondin-2 for accurate diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and distal cholangiocarcinoma- A proteome approach	Label-free, PDAC, THBS2, cholangiocarcinoma, early detection, pancreatic cancer, thrombospondin-2	BACKGROUND: Minimally invasive diagnostic biomarkers for patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and distal cholangiocarcinoma (dCCA) are warranted to facilitate accurate diagnosis. This study identified diagnostic plasma proteins based on proteomics of tumor secretome. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Secretome of tumor and normal tissue was collected after resection of PDAC and dCCA. Differentially expressed proteins were measured by mass spectrometry. Selected candidate biomarkers and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) were validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in plasma from patients with PDAC (n = 82), dCCA (n = 29), benign disease (BD; n = 30), and healthy donors (HDs; n = 50). Areas under the curve (AUCs) of receiver operator characteristic curves were calculated to determine the discriminative power. RESULTS: In tumor secretome, 696 discriminatory proteins were identified, including 21 candidate biomarkers. Thrombospondin-2 (THBS2) emerged as promising biomarker. Abundance of THBS2 in plasma from patients with cancer was significantly higher compared to HDs (p < .001, AUC = 0.844). Combined expression of THBS2 and CA19-9 yielded the optimal discriminatory capacity (AUC = 0.952), similarly for early- and late-stage disease (AUC = 0.971 and AUC = 0.911). Remarkably, this combination demonstrated a power similar to CA19-9 to discriminate cancer from BD (AUC = 0.764), and THBS2 provided an additive value in patients with high expression levels of bilirubin. CONCLUSION: Our proteome approach identified a promising set of candidate biomarkers. The combined plasma expression of THBS2/CA19-9 is able to accurately distinguish patients with PDAC or dCCA from HD and BD. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The combined plasma expression of thrombospondin-2 and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 is able to accurately diagnose patients with pancreatic cancer and distal cholangiocarcinoma. This will facilitate minimally invasive diagnosis for these patients by distinguishing them from healthy individuals and benign diseases.
PXD012488	31944090	Gigaxonin glycosylation regulates intermediate filament turnover and may impact giant axonal neuropathy etiology or treatment 	Boyce 4023 GlcNac Mapping Project	GlcNac	Gigaxonin (also known as KLHL16) is an E3 ligase adaptor protein that promotes the ubiquitination and degradation of intermediate filament (IF) proteins. Mutations in human gigaxonin cause the fatal neurodegenerative disease giant axonal neuropathy (GAN), in which IF proteins accumulate and aggregate in axons throughout the nervous system, impairing neuronal function and viability. Despite this pathophysiological significance, the upstream regulation and downstream effects of normal and aberrant gigaxonin function remain incompletely understood. Here, we report that gigaxonin is modified by <italic>O</italic>-linked beta-<italic>N</italic>-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc), a prevalent form of intracellular glycosylation, in a nutrient- and growth factor-dependent manner. MS analyses of human gigaxonin revealed 9 candidate sites of O-GlcNAcylation, 2 of which -- serine 272 and threonine 277 -- are required for its ability to mediate IF turnover in gigaxonin-deficient human cell models that we created. Taken together, the results suggest that nutrient-responsive gigaxonin O-GlcNAcylation forms a regulatory link between metabolism and IF proteostasis. Our work may have significant implications for understanding the nongenetic modifiers of GAN phenotypes and for the optimization of gene therapy for this disease.
PXD006889	31947809	Proteomic Studies for the Investigation of gamma-Globin Induction by Decitabine in Human Primary Erythroid Progenitor Cultures. 	Mass spec analysis of primary human erythroid cultures (healthy or thalassemic and treated or untreated with Decitabine)	Decitabine, HbF, LC-MS, primary erythroid cultures	Reactivation of gamma-globin is considered a promising approach for the treatment of beta-thalassemia and sickle cell disease. Therapeutic induction of gamma-globin expression, however, is fraught with lack of suitable therapeutic targets. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects that treatment with decitabine has on the proteome of human primary erythroid cells from healthy and thalassemic volunteers, as a means of identifying new potential pharmacological targets. Decitabine is a known gamma-globin inducer, which is not, however, safe enough for clinical use. A proteomic approach utilizing isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) analysis, in combination with high-pH reverse phase peptide fractionation followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), was employed to investigate the effects of decitabine treatment. Bioinformatics analysis making use of the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) was employed for functional annotation of the 192 differentially expressed proteins identified. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006889. The proteins fall into various biological pathways, such as the NF-kappaB signaling pathway, and into many functional categories including regulation of cell proliferation, transcription factor and DNA binding, protein stabilization, chromatin modification and organization, and oxidative stress proteins.
PXD016070	31950173	The human ZC3H3 and RBM26/27 proteins are critical for PAXT-mediated nuclear RNA decay. 	An extended PAXT connection is required for turnover of nuclear polyadenylated RNA in human cells	PABPN1, RBM26, RBM27, RNA degradation, ZC3H3, nuclear RNA exosome, the PAXT connection	Recruitment of the human ribonucleolytic RNA exosome to nuclear polyadenylated (pA+) RNA is facilitated by the Poly(A) Tail eXosome Targeting (PAXT) connection. Besides its core dimer, formed by the exosome co-factor MTR4 and the ZFC3H1 protein, the PAXT connection remains poorly defined. By characterizing nuclear pA+-RNA bound proteomes as well as MTR4-ZFC3H1 containing complexes in conditions favoring PAXT assembly, we here uncover three additional proteins required for PAXT function: ZC3H3, RBM26 and RBM27 along with the known PAXT-associated protein, PABPN1. The zinc-finger protein ZC3H3 interacts directly with MTR4-ZFC3H1 and loss of any of the newly identified PAXT components results in the accumulation of PAXT substrates. Collectively, our results establish new factors involved in the turnover of nuclear pA+ RNA and suggest that these are limiting for PAXT activity.
PXD015361	31951200	Dynamic post-translational modification profiling of Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected primary macrophages. 	Global proteomic profiling of primary macrophages during M. tuberculosis infection identifies TAX1BP1 as a mediator of autophagy targeting	autophagy, macrophage, post-translational modification, tuberculosis	Macrophages are highly plastic cells with critical roles in immunity, cancer, and tissue homeostasis, but how these distinct cellular fates are triggered by environmental cues is poorly understood. To uncover how primary murine macrophages respond to bacterial pathogens, we globally assessed changes in post-translational modifications of proteins during infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a notorious intracellular pathogen. We identified hundreds of dynamically regulated phosphorylation and ubiquitylation sites, indicating that dramatic remodeling of multiple host pathways, both expected and unexpected, occurred during infection. Most of these cellular changes were not captured by mRNA profiling, and included activation of ubiquitin-mediated autophagy, an evolutionarily ancient cellular antimicrobial system. This analysis also revealed that a particular autophagy receptor, TAX1BP1, mediates clearance of ubiquitylated Mtb and targets bacteria to LC3-positive phagophores. These studies provide a new resource for understanding how macrophages shape their proteome to meet the challenge of infection.
PXD014697	31951383	ExteNDing Proteome Coverage with Legumain as a Highly Specific Digestion Protease. 	HUNTER N-termini profiling of Arabidopsis thaliana leaves using different proteases	Arabidopsis HUNTER N-termini profiling	Bottom-up mass spectrometry-based proteomics utilizes proteolytic enzymes with well characterized specificities to generate peptides amenable for identification by high-throughput tandem mass spectrometry. Trypsin, which cuts specifically after the basic residues lysine and arginine, is the predominant enzyme used for proteome digestion, although proteases with alternative specificities are required to detect sequences that are not accessible after tryptic digest. Here, we show that the human cysteine protease legumain exhibits a strict substrate specificity for cleavage after asparagine and aspartic acid residues during in-solution digestions of proteomes extracted from Escherichia coli, mouse embryonic fibroblast cell cultures, and Arabidopsis thaliana leaves. Generating peptides highly complementary in sequence, yet similar in their biophysical properties, legumain (as compared to trypsin or GluC) enabled complementary proteome and protein sequence coverage. Importantly, legumain further enabled the identification and enrichment of protein N-termini not accessible in GluC- or trypsin-digested samples. Legumain cannot cleave after glycosylated Asn residues, which enabled the robust identification and orthogonal validation of N-glycosylation sites based on alternating sequential sample treatments with legumain and PNGaseF and vice versa. Taken together, we demonstrate that legumain is a practical, efficient protease for extending the proteome and sequence coverage achieved with trypsin, with unique possibilities for the characterization of post-translational modification sites.
PXD016509	31953415	Bacterial Hsp70 resolves misfolded states and accelerates productive folding of a multi-domain protein. 	DnaK interaction and folding of firefly luciferase studied by hydrogen/deuterium exchange - mass spectrometry	chaperone, deuterium exchange, dnak, firefly luciferase, folding	The ATP-dependent Hsp70 chaperones (DnaK in E. coli) mediate protein folding in cooperation with J proteins and nucleotide exchange factors (E. coli DnaJ and GrpE, respectively). The Hsp70 system prevents protein aggregation and increases folding yields. Whether it also enhances the rate of folding remains unclear. Here we show that DnaK/DnaJ/GrpE accelerate the folding of the multi-domain protein firefly luciferase (FLuc) ~20-fold over the rate of spontaneous folding measured in the absence of aggregation. Analysis by single-pair FRET and hydrogen/deuterium exchange identified inter-domain misfolding as the cause of slow folding. DnaK binding expands the misfolded region and thereby resolves the kinetically-trapped intermediates, with folding occurring upon GrpE-mediated release. In each round of release DnaK commits a fraction of FLuc to fast folding, circumventing misfolding. We suggest that by resolving misfolding and accelerating productive folding, the bacterial Hsp70 system can maintain proteins in their native states under otherwise denaturing stress conditions.
PXD013334	31956895	Stress-induced lncRNA LASTR fosters cancer cell fitness by regulating the activity of the U4/U6 recycling factor SART3. 	Stress-induced lncRNA LAS3 fosters fitness of cancer cells by regulating SART3-mediated spliceosome recycling	SART3, breast cancer, hypoxia, intron retention, long non-coding RNAs	Dysregulated splicing is a common event in cancer even in the absence of mutations in the core splicing machinery. The aberrant long non-coding transcriptome constitutes an uncharacterized level of regulation of post-transcriptional events in cancer. Here, we found that the stress-induced long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), LINC02657 or LASTR (lncRNA associated with SART3 regulation of splicing), is upregulated in hypoxic breast cancer and is essential for the growth of LASTR-positive triple-negative breast tumors. LASTR is upregulated in several types of epithelial cancers due to the activation of the stress-induced JNK/c-JUN pathway. Using a mass-spectrometry based approach, we identified the RNA-splicing factor SART3 as a LASTR-interacting partner. We found that LASTR promotes splicing efficiency by controlling SART3 association with the U4 and U6 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNP) during spliceosome recycling. Intron retention induced by LASTR depletion downregulates expression of essential genes, ultimately decreasing the fitness of cancer cells.
PXD015949	31957451	Quantitative Characterization of the Neuropeptide Level Changes in Dorsal Horn and Dorsal Root Ganglia Regions of the Murine Itch Models. 	Quantitative characterization of the neuropeptide level changes in dorsal horn and dorsal root ganglia regions of the murine itch models	LC-MS, extracted Ion chromatogram, label-free quantitation	Chronic itch can be extremely devastating and, in many cases, difficult to treat. One challenge in treating itch disorders is the limited understanding of the multitude of chemical players involved in the communication of itch sensation from the peripheral to the central nervous system. Neuropeptides are intercellular signaling molecules that are known to be involved in the transmission of itch signals from primary afferent neurons, which detect itch in the skin, to higher-order circuits in the spinal cord and brain. To investigate the role of neuropeptides in transmitting itch signals, we generated two mouse models of chronic itch-Acetone-Ether-Water (AEW, dry skin) and calcipotriol (MC903, atopic dermatitis). For peptide identification and quantitation, we analyzed the peptide content of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and dorsal horn (DH) tissues from chronically itchy mice using liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry. De novo-assisted database searching facilitated the identification and quantitation of 335 peptides for DH MC903, 318 for DH AEW, 266 for DRG MC903, and 271 for DRG AEW. Of these quantifiable peptides, we detected 30 that were differentially regulated in the tested models, after accounting for multiple testing correction (q <= 0.1). These include several peptide candidates derived from neuropeptide precursors, such as proSAAS, protachykinin-1, proenkephalin, and calcitonin gene-related peptide, some of them previously linked to itch. The peptides identified in this study may help elucidate our understanding about these debilitating disorders. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015949.
PXD004370	31957553	Twitching motility of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia under iron limitation: In-silico, phenotypic and proteomic approaches. 	To compare the proteome of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia grown in normal and iron depleted condition	Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, iron depleted	This study investigates the twitching ability of 28 clinical and five environmental strains of S. maltophilia grown under iron-depleted condition through in-silico, phenotypic and proteomics approaches. Rapid Annotations using Subsystem Technology (RAST) analysis revealed the presence of 21 targets of type IV pilus shared across S. maltophilia strains K279a, R551-3, D457 and JV3. The macroscopic twitching assay showed that only clinical isolates produced a zone of twitching with a mean of 22.00 mm under normal and 25.00 mm under iron-depleted conditions. (p = 0.002). Environmental isolates did not show any significant twitching activity in both conditions tested. Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantification (ITRAQ) analysis showed altered expression of twitching motility protein PilT (99.08-fold change), flagellar biosynthesis protein FliC (20.14-fold change), and fimbrial protein (0.70-fold change) in response to iron-depleted condition. Most of the strains that have the ability to twitch under the normal condition, exhibit enhanced twitching during iron limitation.
PXD016707	31958637	In-depth proteomics and natural peptidomics analyses reveal antibacterial peptides in human endometrial fluid. 	In-depth proteomics and natural peptidomics analyses of human endometrial fluid	Endometrial fluid, natural peptidomics, timsTOF	The composition of endometrial fluid reflects the status of the endometrium; it is a good atraumatic source of information on embryo implantation processes and possible pathological conditions. Although some attempts have been made to characterise its proteome, the catalogue of its proteins remains incomplete and little has been done to analyse the natural peptides it contains. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of the proteins and natural peptides of the endometrial fluid. The protein content of samples from 11 individuals was analysed using the novel timsTOF Pro mass spectrometer. We identified 4694 proteins with at least one peptide with FDR < 1%, of which 2261 were found in >50% of the samples. A pooled endometrial fluid sample was used for isolation and analysis of the natural peptides. Mass spectrometry analysis identified 3899 naturally occurring peptides from 238 different proteins. Among these, there were some putative natural antibacterial peptides. Antimicrobial activity of peptides derived from elafin and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase was confirmed using microbiological assays. Our results substantially expand the catalogue of known endometrial fluid proteins and provide extensive new information on the natural peptide content of this fluid. SIGNIFICANCE: The endometrial fluid contains many proteins whose clinical relevance is still unknown. Some might be merely markers of endometrial function, but others might play a role in embryo nutrition and/or implantation. Human endometrial fluid analysis might open the door to new developments in embryo transfer strategies in in-vitro fertilisation programmes and lead to improvements in the composition of embryo culture media. Here, we report, for the first time, antimicrobial activity of endometrial fluid peptides. Such peptides could play an important role in the balance of the recently described uterine microbiota.
PXD016208	31959764	Targeting of EGFR by a combination of antibodies mediates unconventional EGFR trafficking and degradation. 	Identification of changes in posttranslational modifications of EGFR and in EGFR-binding partners in head and neck cancer cells upon treatment with EGF or the EGFR antibody mixture Sym004	EGFR	Antibody combinations targeting cell surface receptors are a new modality of cancer therapy. The trafficking and signalling mechanisms regulated by such therapeutics are not fully understood but could underlie differential tumour responses. We explored EGFR trafficking upon treatment with the antibody combination Sym004 which has shown promise clinically. Sym004 promoted EGFR endocytosis distinctly from EGF: it was asynchronous, not accompanied by canonical signalling events and involved EGFR clustering within detergent-insoluble plasma mebrane-associated tubules. Sym004 induced lysosomal degradation independently of EGFR ubiquitylation but dependent upon Hrs/Tsg101 that are required for the formation of intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) within late endosomes. We propose Sym004 cross-links EGFR physically triggering EGFR endocytosis and incorporation onto ILVs and so Sym004 sensitivity correlates with EGFR numbers available for binding, rather than specific signalling events. Consistently Sym004 efficacy and potentiation of cisplatin responses correlated with EGFR surface expression in head and neck cancer cells. These findings will have implications in understanding the mode of action of this new class of cancer therapeutics.
PXD008986	31959767	Delineation of hypoxia-induced proteome shifts in osteosarcoma cells with different metastatic propensities. 	Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM)-Driven Profiling of  Hypoxia-responsive Pathways Associated with Metastasis in Osteosarcoma	Hypoxia, Label Free Quantification, Metastasis, Osteosarcoma, Parallel Reaction Monitoring	Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common bone cancer in children and young adults. Solid tumors are characterized by intratumoral hypoxia, and hypoxic cells are associated with the transformation to aggressive phenotype and metastasis. The proteome needed to support an aggressive osteosarcoma cell phenotype remains largely undefined. To link metastatic propensity to a hypoxia-induced proteotype, we compared the protein profiles of two isogenic canine OS cell lines, POS (low metastatic) and HMPOS (highly metastatic), under normoxia and hypoxia. Label-free shotgun proteomics was applied to comprehensively characterize the hypoxia-responsive proteome profiles in the OS cell phenotypes. Hypothesis-driven parallel reaction monitoring was used to validate the differential proteins observed in the shotgun data and to monitor proteins of which we expected to exhibit hypoxia responsiveness, but which were absent in the label-free shotgun data. We established a "distance" score (|zHMPOS - zPOS|), and "sensitivity" score (|zHypoxia - zNormoxia) to quantitatively evaluate the proteome shifts exhibited by OS cells in response to hypoxia. Evaluation of the sensitivity scores for the proteome shifts observed and principal component analysis of the hypoxia-responsive proteins indicated that both cell types acquire a proteome that supports a Warburg phenotype with enhanced cell migration and proliferation characteristics. Cell migration and glucose uptake assays combined with protein function inhibitor studies provided further support that hypoxia-driven adaption of pathways associated with glycolytic metabolism, collagen biosynthesis and remodeling, redox regulation and immunomodulatory proteins typify a proteotype associated with an aggressive cancer cell phenotype. Our findings further suggest that proteins involved in collagen remodeling and immune editing may warrant further evaluation as potential targets for anti-metastatic treatment strategies in osteosarcoma.
PXD015397	31959954	Identifying drug targets in tissues and whole blood with thermal-shift profiling. 	Tissue Thermal Proteome Profiling	HL60, HepG2, THP1, TPP	Monitoring drug-target interactions with methods such as the cellular thermal-shift assay (CETSA) is well established for simple cell systems but remains challenging in vivo. Here we introduce tissue thermal proteome profiling (tissue-TPP), which measures binding of small-molecule drugs to proteins in tissue samples from drug-treated animals by detecting changes in protein thermal stability using quantitative mass spectrometry. We report organ-specific, proteome-wide thermal stability maps and derive target profiles of the non-covalent histone deacetylase inhibitor panobinostat in rat liver, lung, kidney and spleen and of the B-Raf inhibitor vemurafenib in mouse testis. In addition, we devised blood-CETSA and blood-TPP and applied it to measure target and off-target engagement of panobinostat and the BET family inhibitor JQ1 directly in whole blood. Blood-TPP analysis of panobinostat confirmed its binding to known targets and also revealed thermal stabilization of the zinc-finger transcription factor ZNF512. These methods will help to elucidate the mechanisms of drug action in vivo.
PXD015943	31959955	Reconstructing kinase network topologies from phosphoproteomics data reveals cancer-associated rewiring. 	Chemical phosphoproteomics reveals kinase network topologies associated to genotypes and phenotypes of cancer cells.	bioinformatics, cancer, kinase inhibitors, kinase signaling networks, phosphoproteomics	Understanding how oncogenic mutations rewire regulatory-protein networks is important for rationalizing the mechanisms of oncogenesis and for individualizing anticancer treatments. We report a chemical phosphoproteomics method to elucidate the topology of kinase-signaling networks in mammalian cells. We identified >6,000 protein phosphorylation sites that can be used to infer >1,500 kinase-kinase interactions and devised algorithms that can reconstruct kinase network topologies from these phosphoproteomics data. Application of our methods to primary acute myeloid leukemia and breast cancer tumors quantified the relationship between kinase expression and activity, and enabled the identification of hitherto unknown kinase network topologies associated with drug-resistant phenotypes or specific genetic mutations. Using orthogonal methods we validated that PIK3CA wild-type cells adopt MAPK-dependent circuitries in breast cancer cells and that the kinase TTK is important in acute myeloid leukemia. Our phosphoproteomic signatures of network circuitry can identify kinase topologies associated with both phenotypes and genotypes of cancer cells.
PXD016600	31959991	A human ciliopathy reveals essential functions for NEK10 in airway mucociliary clearance. 	Human NEK10 knockout airway ALI Fe-IMAC-MSMS	NEK10, airway, phosphoproteomics	Mucociliary clearance, the physiological process by which mammalian conducting airways expel pathogens and unwanted surface materials from the respiratory tract, depends on the coordinated function of multiple specialized cell types, including basal stem cells, mucus-secreting goblet cells, motile ciliated cells, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR)-rich ionocytes, and immune cells(1,2). Bronchiectasis, a syndrome of pathological airway dilation associated with impaired mucociliary clearance, may occur sporadically or as a consequence of Mendelian inheritance, for example in cystic fibrosis, primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), and select immunodeficiencies(3). Previous studies have identified mutations that affect ciliary structure and nucleation in PCD(4), but the regulation of mucociliary transport remains incompletely understood, and therapeutic targets for its modulation are lacking. Here we identify a bronchiectasis syndrome caused by mutations that inactivate NIMA-related kinase 10 (NEK10), a protein kinase with previously unknown in vivo functions in mammals. Genetically modified primary human airway cultures establish NEK10 as a ciliated-cell-specific kinase whose activity regulates the motile ciliary proteome to promote ciliary length and mucociliary transport but which is dispensable for normal ciliary number, radial structure, and beat frequency. Together, these data identify a novel and likely targetable signaling axis that controls motile ciliary function in humans and has potential implications for other respiratory disorders that are characterized by impaired mucociliary clearance.
PXD016697	31960518	Metabolic changes related to the IDH1 mutation in gliomas preserve TCA-cycle activity: An investigation at the protein level. 	Metabolic changes related to the IDH1 mutation in gliomas preserve TCA-cycle activity: an investigation at the protein level	Glioma, IDH1 mutation	The discovery of the IDH1 R132H (IDH1 mut) mutation in low-grade glioma and the associated change in function of the IDH1 enzyme has increased the interest in glioma metabolism. In an earlier study, we found that changes in expression of genes involved in the aerobic glycolysis and the TCA cycle are associated with IDH1 mut. Here, we apply proteomics to FFPE samples of diffuse gliomas with or without IDH1 mutations, to map changes in protein levels associated with this mutation. We observed significant changes in the enzyme abundance associated with aerobic glycolysis, glutamate metabolism, and the TCA cycle in IDH1 mut gliomas. Specifically, the enzymes involved in the metabolism of glutamate, lactate, and enzymes involved in the conversion of alpha-ketoglutarate were increased in IDH1 mut gliomas. In addition, the bicarbonate transporter (SLC4A4) was increased in IDH1 mut gliomas, supporting the idea that a mechanism preventing intracellular acidification is active. We also found that enzymes that convert proline, valine, leucine, and isoleucine into glutamate were increased in IDH1 mut glioma. We conclude that in IDH1 mut glioma metabolism is rewired (increased input of lactate and glutamate) to preserve TCA-cycle activity in IDH1 mut gliomas.
PXD017086	31963736	A Combined Proteomics, Metabolomics and In Vivo Analysis Approach for the Characterization of Probiotics in Large-Scale Production. 	Proteomic characterization of probiotics	functional proteomics, probiotic quality assessment	The manufacturing processes of commercial probiotic strains may be affected in different ways in the attempt to optimize yield, costs, functionality, or stability, influencing gene expression, protein patterns, or metabolic output. Aim of this work is to compare different samples of a high concentration (450 billion bacteria) multispecies (8 strains) formulation produced at two different manufacturing sites, United States of America (US) and Italy (IT), by applying a combination of functional proteomics, metabolomics, and in vivo analyses. Several protein-profile differences were detected between IT- and US-made products, with Lactobacillus paracasei, Streptococcus thermophilus, and Bifidobacteria being the main affected probiotics/microorganisms. Performing proton nuclear magnetic spectroscopy ((1)H-NMR), some discrepancies in amino acid, lactate, betaine and sucrose concentrations were also reported between the two products. Finally, we investigated the health-promoting and antiaging effects of both products in the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans. The integration of omics platforms with in vivo analysis has emerged as a powerful tool to assess manufacturing procedures.
PXD017112	31963821	Staphylococcus saprophyticus Proteomic Analyses Elucidate Differences in the Protein Repertories among Clinical Strains Related to Virulence and Persistence. 	Staphylococcus saprophyticus proteomic analyses elucidate differences in the protein repertories among clinical strains related to virulence and persistence	Staphylococcus saprophyticus	Staphylococcus saprophyticus is a Gram-positive and coagulase negative cocci that composes the skin microbiota and can act as an opportunistic agent causing urinary tract infections, being more frequent in sexually active young women. The ability of a pathogen to cause infection in the host is associated to its ability to adhere to host cells and to survive host immune defenses. In this work, we presented the comparative proteomic profile of three S. saprophyticus strains. It was possible to characterize differences in the proteome content, specially related to expression of virulence factors. We compiled this data and previous data and we detected one strain (9325) possessing higher production and secretion of proteins related to virulence. Our results show that phenotypic, genotypic, and proteomic differences reflect in the ability to survive during interaction with host cells, since the 9325 strain presented a higher survival rate after macrophage interaction. In counterpart, the 7108 strain that possesses lower content of proteins related to virulence presented higher ability to form biofilm suggesting that this strain can be better adapted to persist in the host and in the environment. Our work describes, for the first time, proteomic flexibility among S. saprophyticus strains, reflecting in virulence and persistence.
PXD015573	31964829	Widespread remodeling of proteome solubility in response to different protein homeostasis stresses. 	Proteome solubility changes under different proteostasis stresses	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), ER-, Human Proteome Project, Huntington's disease, Protein homeostasis, ProteomeXchange project tag: Protein Misfolding and Aggregation (B/D-HPP), metabolism, protein aggregation	The accumulation of protein deposits in neurodegenerative diseases has been hypothesized to depend on a metastable subproteome vulnerable to aggregation. To investigate this phenomenon and the mechanisms that regulate it, we measured the solubility of the proteome in the mouse Neuro2a cell line under six different protein homeostasis stresses: 1) Huntington's disease proteotoxicity, 2) Hsp70, 3) Hsp90, 4) proteasome, 5) endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mediated folding inhibition, and 6) oxidative stress. Overall, we found that about one-fifth of the proteome changed solubility with almost all of the increases in insolubility were counteracted by increases in solubility of other proteins. Each stress directed a highly specific pattern of change, which reflected the remodeling of protein complexes involved in adaptation to perturbation, most notably, stress granule (SG) proteins, which responded differently to different stresses. These results indicate that the protein homeostasis system is organized in a modular manner and aggregation patterns were not correlated with protein folding stability (DeltaG). Instead, distinct cellular mechanisms regulate assembly patterns of multiple classes of protein complexes under different stress conditions.
PXD013167	31964861	Mechanisms governing the pioneering and redistribution capabilities of the non-classical pioneer PU.1. 	The hematopoietic master transcription factor PU.1 requires its interaction with the SWI/SNF remodeler to access chromatin de novo	cell differenciation, chromatin remodelling, transcription factor	Establishing gene regulatory networks during differentiation or reprogramming requires master or pioneer transcription factors (TFs) such as PU.1, a prototype master TF of hematopoietic lineage differentiation. To systematically determine molecular features that control its activity, here we analyze DNA-binding in vitro and genome-wide in vivo across different cell types with native or ectopic PU.1 expression. Although PU.1, in contrast to classical pioneer factors, is unable to access nucleosomal target sites in vitro, ectopic induction of PU.1 leads to the extensive remodeling of chromatin and redistribution of partner TFs. De novo chromatin access, stable binding, and redistribution of partner TFs both require PU.1's N-terminal acidic activation domain and its ability to recruit SWI/SNF remodeling complexes, suggesting that the latter may collect and distribute co-associated TFs in conjunction with the non-classical pioneer TF PU.1.
PXD016880	31964889	Hepatitis Delta Virus histone mimicry drives the recruitment of chromatin remodelers for viral RNA replication. 	Hepatitis Delta Virus histone mimicry drives the recruitment of chromatin remodelers for viral RNA replication	BAZ2B Associated Remodeling Factor (BRF), Bromodomain Assoc, Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), Hepatitis Delta Virus (HDV), Histone Mimicry, RNA Polymerase II (RNA Pol II), SNF2H / SMARCA-5, SNF2L / SMARCA1, Short Linear Interaction Motif (SLiM)	Hepatitis Delta virus (HDV) is a satellite of Hepatitis B virus with a single-stranded circular RNA genome. HDV RNA genome synthesis is carried out in infected cells by cellular RNA polymerases with the assistance of the small hepatitis delta antigen (S-HDAg). Here we show that S-HDAg binds the bromodomain (BRD) adjacent to zinc finger domain 2B (BAZ2B) protein, a regulatory subunit of BAZ2B-associated remodeling factor (BRF) ISWI chromatin remodeling complexes. shRNA-mediated silencing of BAZ2B or its inactivation with the BAZ2B BRD inhibitor GSK2801 impairs HDV replication in HDV-infected human hepatocytes. S-HDAg contains a short linear interacting motif (SLiM) KacXXR, similar to the one recognized by BAZ2B BRD in histone H3. We found that the integrity of the S-HDAg SLiM sequence is required for S-HDAg interaction with BAZ2B BRD and for HDV RNA replication. Our results suggest that S-HDAg uses a histone mimicry strategy to co-activate the RNA polymerase II-dependent synthesis of HDV RNA and sustain HDV replication.
PXD017058	31964978	Astrocyte Support for Oligodendrocyte Differentiation can be Conveyed via Extracellular Vesicles but Diminishes with Age. 	Astrocyte Support for Oligodendrocyte Differentiation can be Conveyed via Extracellular Vesicles but Diminishes with Age	Senescence, astrocytes, extracellular vesicles, oligodendrocytes	The aging brain is associated with significant changes in physiology that alter the tissue microenvironment of the central nervous system (CNS). In the aged CNS, increased demyelination has been associated with astrocyte hypertrophy and aging has been implicated as a basis for these pathological changes. Aging tissues accumulate chronic cellular stress, which can lead to the development of a pro-inflammatory phenotype that can be associated with cellular senescence. Herein, we provide evidence that astrocytes aged in culture develop a spontaneous pro-inflammatory and senescence-like phenotype. We found that extracellular vesicles (EVs) from young astrocyte were sufficient to convey support for oligodendrocyte differentiation while this support was lost by EVs from aged astrocytes. Importantly, the negative influence of culture age on astrocytes, and their cognate EVs, could be countered by treatment with rapamycin. Comparative proteomic analysis of EVs from young and aged astrocytes revealed peptide repertoires unique to each age. Taken together, these findings provide new information on the contribution of EVs as potent mediators by which astrocytes can extert changing influence in either the disease or aged brain.
PXD016498	31967407	Deciphering tissue-based proteome signatures revealed novel subtyping and prognostic markers for thymic epithelial tumors. 	Deciphering Tissue-based Proteome Signatures Revealed Novel Subtyping and Prognostic Markers for Thymic Epithelial Tumors	Molecular Profiling, Protein classifiers, Targeted Proteomics, Thymic epithelial tumors, WHO classification	Thymic epithelial tumors (TETs) belong to a group of tumors that rarely occur, but have unresolved mechanisms and heterogeneous clinical behaviors. Current care of TET patients demands biomarkers of high sensitivity and specificity for accurate histological classification and prognosis management. In this study, 134 fresh-frozen tissue samples (84 tumor, 40 tumor adjacent, and 10 normal thymus) were recruited to generate a quantitative and systematic view of proteomic landscape of TETs. Among them, 90 samples were analyzed by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) leading to discovery of novel classifying molecules among different TET subtypes. The correlation between clinical outcome and the identified molecules was probed, and the prioritized proteins of interest were further validated on the remaining samples (n = 44) via parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) as well as immunohistochemical and confocal imaging analysis. In particular, two proteins, the cellular mRNA deadenylase CCR4 (carbon catabolite repressor 4)-NOT (negative on TATA) complex subunit 2/9 (CNOT2/9) and the serine hydroxymethyltransferase that catalyzes the reversible interconversions of serine and glycine (SHMT1), were found at dramatic low levels in the thymic epithelia of more malignant subtype, thymic squamous cell carcinoma (TSCC). Interestingly, the mRNA levels of these two genes were shown to be closely correlated with prognosis of the TET patients. These results extended the existing human tissue proteome atlas and allowed us to identify several new protein classifiers for TET subtyping. Newly identified subtyping and prognosis markers, CNOT2/9 and SHMT1, will expand current diagnostic arsenal in terms of higher specificity and prognostic insights for TET diagnosis and management.
PXD016740	31967833	Impact of an Antifungal Insect Defensin on the Proteome of the Phytopathogenic Fungus Botrytis cinerea. 	Impact of an antifungal insect defensin on the proteome of the phytopathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea	Botrytis cinerea, Insect defensin, antifungal defensin, fungal infection, heliomicin, mechanism of action	ETD151, an analogue of the antifungal insect defensin heliomicin, is an antifungal peptide active against yeasts and filamentous fungi. To decipher the mechanisms underlying its molecular action on the phytopathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea, a necrotrophic pathogen responsible for gray mold disease, we investigated the changes in 3 day-old mycelia upon treatment with different concentrations of ETD151. Optical and fluorescence microscopies were used prior to establishing the peptide/protein profiles through two mass spectrometry approaches: MALDI profiling, to generate molecular mass fingerprints as peptide signatures, and a gel-free bottom-up proteomics approach. Our results show that a concentration of ETD151 above the half-maximal inhibitory concentration can alter the integrity of the mycelial structure of B. cinerea. Furthermore, reproducible modifications of the peptide/protein composition were demonstrated in the presence of ETD151 within a 1500-16,000 mass (m/z) range. After the robustness of LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis on B. cinerea mycelial extracts was confirmed, our analyses highlighted 340 significantly modulated proteins upon treatment with ETD151 within a 4.8-466 kDa mass range. Finally, data mapping on KEGG pathways revealed the molecular impact of ETD151 on at least six pathways, namely, spliceosome, ribosome, protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, endocytosis, MAPK signaling pathway, and oxidative phosphorylation.
PXD012405	31969567	Environmental arginine controls multinuclear giant cell metabolism and formation. 	Environmental Arginine Controls Multinuclear Giant Cell Metabolism and Formation	Arginine, LC-MS, Preosteoclasts, RANKL	Multinucleated giant cells (MGCs) are implicated in many diseases including schistosomiasis, sarcoidosis and arthritis. MGC generation is energy intensive to enforce membrane fusion and cytoplasmic expansion. Using receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Beta ligand (RANKL) induced osteoclastogenesis to model MGC formation, here we report RANKL cellular programming requires extracellular arginine. Systemic arginine restriction improves outcome in multiple murine arthritis models and its removal induces preosteoclast metabolic quiescence, associated with impaired tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle function and metabolite induction. Effects of arginine deprivation on osteoclastogenesis are independent of mTORC1 activity or global transcriptional and translational inhibition. Arginine scarcity also dampens generation of IL-4 induced MGCs. Strikingly, in extracellular arginine absence, both cell types display flexibility as their formation can be restored with select arginine precursors. These data establish how environmental amino acids control the metabolic fate of polykaryons and suggest metabolic ways to manipulate MGC-associated pathologies and bone remodelling.
PXD016422	31969649	Biotin proximity tagging favours unfolded proteins and enables the study of intrinsically disordered regions. 	Biotin proximity tagging favors unfolded proteins and enables the study of intrinsically disordered regions	Biotin, E. coli, H. sapiens, IDR, LC-SPS-MS3	Intrinsically Disordered Regions (IDRs) are enriched in disease-linked proteins known to have multiple post-translational modifications, but there is limited in vivo information about how locally unfolded protein regions contribute to biological functions. We reasoned that IDRs should be more accessible to targeted in vivo biotinylation than ordered protein regions, if they retain their flexibility in human cells. Indeed, we observed increased biotinylation density in predicted IDRs in several cellular compartments >20,000 biotin sites from four proximity proteomics studies. We show that in a biotin 'painting' time course experiment, biotinylation events in Escherichia coli ribosomes progress from unfolded and exposed regions at 10 s, to structured and less accessible regions after five minutes. We conclude that biotin proximity tagging favours sites of local disorder in proteins and suggest the possibility of using biotin painting as a method to gain unique insights into in vivo condition-dependent subcellular plasticity of proteins.
PXD014501	31969708	Mechanism of adrenergic CaV1.2 stimulation revealed by proximity proteomics. 	Molecular basis of b-adrenergic regulation of cardiac calcium current	Cardiomyocytes, SPS MS3, TMT, alkaline reversed phase peptide fractionation, b-adrenergic regulation, isobaric labeling, isoproterenol, non-transgenic, quantitative mass spectrometry	Increased cardiac contractility during the fight-or-flight response is caused by beta-adrenergic augmentation of CaV1.2 voltage-gated calcium channels(1-4). However, this augmentation persists in transgenic murine hearts expressing mutant CaV1.2 alpha1C and beta subunits that can no longer be phosphorylated by protein kinase A-an essential downstream mediator of beta-adrenergic signalling-suggesting that non-channel factors are also required. Here we identify the mechanism by which beta-adrenergic agonists stimulate voltage-gated calcium channels. We express alpha1C or beta2B subunits conjugated to ascorbate peroxidase(5) in mouse hearts, and use multiplexed quantitative proteomics(6,7) to track hundreds of proteins in the proximity of CaV1.2. We observe that the calcium-channel inhibitor Rad(8,9), a monomeric G protein, is enriched in the CaV1.2 microenvironment but is depleted during beta-adrenergic stimulation. Phosphorylation by protein kinase A of specific serine residues on Rad decreases its affinity for beta subunits and relieves constitutive inhibition of CaV1.2, observed as an increase in channel open probability. Expression of Rad or its homologue Rem in HEK293T cells also imparts stimulation of CaV1.3 and CaV2.2 by protein kinase A, revealing an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that confers adrenergic modulation upon voltage-gated calcium channels.
PXD010211	31969984	Biofilm formation displays intrinsic offensive and defensive features of Bacillus cereus. 	Biofilm formation displays intrinsic offensive and defensive features of Bacillus cereus	Bacillus, antimicrobials, attack defence, biofilm, cereus, planktonics, toxins	Biofilm formation is a strategy of many bacterial species to adapt to a variety of stresses and has become a part of infections, contaminations, or beneficial interactions. In this study, we demonstrate that profound physiological changes permit Bacillus cereus to switch from a floating to a sessile lifestyle, to undergo further maturation of the biofilm and to differentiate into the offensive or defensive features. We report that floating and biofilm cells are populations that differentiate metabolically, with members of each subpopulation developing different branches of certain metabolic pathways. Secondly, biofilm populations rearrange nucleotides, sugars, amino acids, and energy metabolism. Thirdly, this metabolic rearrangement coexists with: the synthesis of the extracellular matrix, sporulation, reinforcement of the cell wall, activation of the ROS detoxification machinery and production of secondary metabolites. This strategy contributes to defend biofilm cells from competitors. However, floating cells maintain a fermentative metabolic status that ensures a higher aggressiveness against hosts, evidenced by the production of toxins. The maintenance of the two distinct subpopulations is an effective strategy to face different environmental conditions found in the life styles of B. cereus.
PXD012616	31969991	Combined proteomics/miRNomics of dendritic cell immunotherapy-treated glioblastoma patients as a screening for survival-associated factors. 	Combined proteomics and miRNomics of a glioblastoma immunotherapy cohort reveals resistance factor candidates and novel counterstrategy concepts	Glioblastoma, clinical cohort, immune oncology	Glioblastoma is the most prevalent and aggressive brain cancer. With a median overall survival of ~15-20 months under standard therapy, novel treatment approaches are desperately needed. A recent phase II clinical trial with a personalized immunotherapy based on tumor lysate-charged dendritic cell (DC) vaccination, however, failed to prolong survival. Here, we investigated tumor tissue from trial patients to explore glioblastoma survival-related factors. We followed an innovative approach of combining mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics (n = 36) with microRNA sequencing plus RT-qPCR (n = 38). Protein quantification identified, e.g., huntingtin interacting protein 1 (HIP1), retinol-binding protein 1 (RBP1), ferritin heavy chain (FTH1) and focal adhesion kinase 2 (FAK2) as factor candidates correlated with a dismal prognosis. MicroRNA analysis identified miR-216b, miR-216a, miR-708 and let-7i as molecules potentially associated with favorable tissue characteristics as they were enriched in patients with a comparably longer survival. To illustrate the utility of integrated miRNomics and proteomics findings, focal adhesion was studied further as one example for a pathway of potential general interest. Taken together, we here mapped possible drivers of glioblastoma outcome under immunotherapy in one of the largest DC vaccination tissue analysis cohorts so far-demonstrating usefulness and feasibility of combined proteomics/miRNomics approaches. Future research should investigate agents that sensitize glioblastoma to (immuno)therapy-potentially building on insights generated here.
PXD012199	31969994	Thermotolerance and plasticity of camel somatic cells exposed to acute and chronic heat stress. 	Heat shock of camel oocytes   .	camel, heatshock, oocyte	The Arabian camel is the largest known mammal that can survive in severe hot climatic conditions. We provide the molecular explanation for the thermotolerance of camel granulosa somatic cells after exposure to 45 degreesC for 2 (acute heat shock) or 20 h (chronic heat shock). The common features of the cellular responses to acute heat stress were the increase of heat shock proteins and DNA repair enzymes expression. Actin polymerization and Rho signaling were critically activated as a cellular defense against heat shock. Cells exposed to chronic heat shock showed altered cell architecture with a decrease in total detected proteins, metabolic enzymes, and cytoskeletal protein expression. Treatment with transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) pathway inhibitor SB-431542 suppressed the morphological alterations of cells exposed to chronic heat shock. Moreover, during the recovery stage at 38 degreesC for 24 h, proteomic changes were partially restored with an exponential increase in HSP70 expression, and the cells restored their normal cellular morphology on the 9th day of recovery. Full proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012159. The strategies of cellular defense and tolerance to both thermal conditions reflect the flexible adaptability of camel somatic cells to conserve life under extremely hot conditions.
PXD015174	31970401	Lysine acetylation of the housekeeping sigma factor enhances the activity of the RNA polymerase holoenzyme. 	Lysine acetylation of the housekeeping sigma factor enhances the activity of RNA polymerase holoenzyme	Lysine Acetylation, RNA Polymerase, Sigma Factor, Transcription	Protein lysine acetylation, one of the most abundant post-translational modifications in eukaryotes, occurs in prokaryotes as well. Despite the evidence of lysine acetylation in bacterial RNA polymerases (RNAPs), its function remains unknown. We found that the housekeeping sigma factor (HrdB) was acetylated throughout the growth of an actinobacterium, Streptomyces venezuelae, and the acetylated HrdB was enriched in the RNAP holoenzyme complex. The lysine (K259) located between 1.2 and 2 regions of the sigma factor, was determined to be the acetylated residue of HrdB in vivo by LC-MS/MS analyses. Specifically, the label-free quantitative analysis revealed that the K259 residues of all the HrdB subunits were acetylated in the RNAP holoenzyme. Using mutations that mimic or block acetylation (K259Q and K259R), we found that K259 acetylation enhances the interaction of HrdB with the RNAP core enzyme as well as the binding activity of the RNAP holoenzyme to target promoters in vivo. Taken together, these findings provide a novel insight into an additional layer of modulation of bacterial RNAP activity.
PXD014990	31971854	Mass spectrometry proteomics reveals a function for mammalian CALCOCO1 in MTOR-regulated selective autophagy. 	Mass spectrometry proteomics reveals proteins that function in mTOR regulated selective autophagy	ATG5, CALCOCO1, ER-phagy, LC3, Selective autophagy, ULK1, ULK2, mTOR, mass spectrometry proteomics	Macroautophagy/autophagy is suppressed by MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) and is an anticancer target under active investigation. Yet, MTOR-regulated autophagy remains incompletely mapped. We used proteomic profiling to identify proteins in the MTOR-autophagy axis. Wild-type (WT) mouse cell lines and cell lines lacking individual autophagy genes (Atg5 or Ulk1/Ulk2) were treated with an MTOR inhibitor to induce autophagy and cultured in media with either glucose or galactose. Mass spectrometry proteome profiling revealed an elevation of known autophagy proteins and candidates for new autophagy components, including CALCOCO1 (calcium binding and coiled-coil domain protein 1). We show that CALCOCO1 physically interacts with MAP1LC3C, a key protein in the machinery of autophagy. Genetic deletion of CALCOCO1 disrupted autophagy of the endoplasmic reticulum (reticulophagy). Together, these results reveal a role for CALCOCO1 in MTOR-regulated selective autophagy. More generally, the resource generated by this work provides a foundation for establishing links between the MTOR-autophagy axis and proteins not previously linked to this pathway. Abbreviations: ATG: autophagy-related; CALCOCO1: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain protein 1; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain protein 2; CLIR: MAP1LC3C-interacting region; CQ: chloroquine; KO: knockout; LIR: MAP1LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; MLN: MLN0128 ATP-competitive MTOR kinase inhibitor; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; reticulophagy: selective autophagy of the endoplasmic reticulum; TAX1BP1/CALCOCO3: TAX1 binding protein 1; ULK: unc 51-like autophagy activating kinase; WT: wild-type.
PXD015793	31974312	Structural analysis of the intrinsically disordered splicing factor Spp2 and its binding to the DEAH-box ATPase Prp2. 	Structural analysis of the intrinsically disordered splicing factor Spp2 and its complex with the DEAH-box ATPase Prp2	prp2, spp2	The spliceosome consists of five small RNAs and more than 100 proteins. Almost 50% of the human spliceosomal proteins were predicted to be intrinsically disordered or to contain disordered regions, among them the G-patch protein Spp2. The G-patch region of Spp2 binds to the DEAH-box ATPase Prp2, and both proteins together are essential for promoting the transition from the B(act) to the catalytically active B* spliceosome. Here we show by circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy that Spp2 is intrinsically disordered in solution. Crystal structures of a complex consisting of Prp2-ADP and the G-patch domain of Spp2 demonstrate that the G-patch gains a defined fold when bound to Prp2. While the N-terminal region of the G-patch always folds into an alpha-helix in five different crystal structures, the C-terminal part is able to adopt two alternative conformations. NMR studies further revealed that the N-terminal part of the Spp2 G-patch, which is the most conserved region in different G-patch proteins, transiently samples helical conformations, possibly facilitating a conformational selection binding mechanism. The structural analysis unveils the role of conserved residues of the G-patch in the dynamic interaction mode of Spp2 with Prp2, which is vital to maintain the binding during the Prp2 domain movements needed for RNA translocation.
PXD016400	31975592	Quantitative Mitochondrial Proteomics Reveals ANXA7 as a Crucial Factor in Mitophagy. 	Human hela cells mitochondrial LC-MS	mitophagy	Mitochondria are involved in many crucial cellular processes. Maintaining healthy mitochondria is essential for cellular homeostasis. Parkin-dependent mitophagy plays an important role in selectively eliminating damaged mitochondria in mammalian cells. However, mechanisms of Parkin-dependent mitophagy remain elusive. In this research, we performed data-independent acquisition-based quantitative mitochondrial proteomics to study the proteomic alterations of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP)-induced Parkin-mediated mitophagy. We identified 222 differentially expressed proteins, with 76 upregulations and 146 downregulations, which were potentially involved in mitophagy. We then demonstrated that annexin A7 (ANXA7), a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein, can translocate to impaired mitochondria upon CCCP treatment, where it played a pivotal part in the process of Parkin-dependent mitophagy via interacting with BASP1. As a mitochondrial uncoupling agent, CCCP indirectly regulated ANXA7 and BASP1 to induce Parkin-dependent mitophagy.
PXD011802	31978041	Makorin 1 controls embryonic patterning by alleviating Bruno1-mediated repression of oskar translation. 	Makorin 1 controls embryonic patterning by alleviating Bruno-mediated repression of oskar translation	Drosophila, Mkrn1, germ cell specification, oogenesis, pole plasm, polyadenylation	Makorins are evolutionary conserved proteins that contain C3H-type zinc finger modules and a RING E3 ubiquitin ligase domain. In Drosophila, maternal Makorin 1 (Mkrn1) has been linked to embryonic patterning but the mechanism remained unsolved. Here, we show that Mkrn1 is essential for axis specification and pole plasm assembly by translational activation of oskar (osk). We demonstrate that Mkrn1 interacts with poly(A) binding protein (pAbp) and binds specifically to osk 3' UTR in a region adjacent to A-rich sequences. Using Drosophila S2R+ cultured cells we show that this binding site overlaps with a Bruno1 (Bru1) responsive element (BREs) that regulates osk translation. We observe increased association of the translational repressor Bru1 with osk mRNA upon depletion of Mkrn1, indicating that both proteins compete for osk binding. Consistently, reducing Bru1 dosage partially rescues viability and Osk protein level in ovaries from Mkrn1 females. We conclude that Mkrn1 controls embryonic patterning and germ cell formation by specifically activating osk translation, most likely by competing with Bru1 to bind to osk 3' UTR.
PXD016835	31978322	The Antimalarial Natural Product Salinipostin A Identifies Essential alpha/beta Serine Hydrolases Involved in Lipid Metabolism in P. falciparum Parasites. 	The antimalarial natural product salinipostin A identifies essential alpha/beta serine hydrolases involved in lipid metabolism in P. falciparum parasites	salinipostin A, serine hydrolase	Salinipostin A (Sal A) is a potent antiplasmodial marine natural product with an undefined mechanism of action. Using a Sal A-derived activity-based probe, we identify its targets in the Plasmodium falciparum parasite. All of the identified proteins contain alpha/beta serine hydrolase domains and several are essential for parasite growth. One of the essential targets displays a high degree of homology to human monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) and is able to process lipid esters including a MAGL acylglyceride substrate. This Sal A target is inhibited by the anti-obesity drug Orlistat, which disrupts lipid metabolism. Resistance selections yielded parasites that showed only minor reductions in sensitivity and that acquired mutations in a PRELI domain-containing protein linked to drug resistance in Toxoplasma gondii. This inability to evolve efficient resistance mechanisms combined with the non-essentiality of human homologs makes the serine hydrolases identified here promising antimalarial targets.
PXD016455	31980178	Protein complexes including PGRMC1 and actin-associated proteins are disrupted by AG-205. 	Protein complexes between PGRMC1 and actin-associated proteins are disrupted by AG-205	AP-MS, PGRMC1, cancer, trafficking	PGRMC1 is a protein from the MAPR family with a range of cellular functions. PGRMC1 has been described to play a role in fertility, neuroprotection, steroidogenesis, membrane trafficking and in cancer cell biology. PGRMC1 represents a likely key regulator of cell metabolism and proliferation, as well as a potential target for anti-cancer therapies. To further understand the functions of PGRMC1 and the mechanism of the small molecule inhibitor of PGRMC1, AG-205, proteins differentially bound to PGRMC1 were identified following AG-205 treatment of MIA PaCa-2 cells. Our results suggest that AG-205 influences PGRMC1 interactions with the actin cytoskeleton. The binding of two PGRMC1-associated proteins that support this, RACK1 and alpha-Actinin-1, was reduced following AG-205 treatment. The biology associated with PGRMC1 binding partners identified here merits further investigation.
PXD012879	31980557	Integrative Metabolic Pathway Analysis Reveals Novel Therapeutic Targets in Osteoarthritis. 	MSCs OA SILAC Mass spectrometry imaging	imaging, metabolites, ostearthritis, proteins	In osteoarthritis (OA), impairment of cartilage regeneration can be related to a defective chondrogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs). Therefore, understanding the proteomic- and metabolomic-associated molecular events during the chondrogenesis of MSCs could provide alternative targets for therapeutic intervention. Here, a SILAC-based proteomic analysis identified 43 proteins related with metabolic pathways whose abundance was significantly altered during the chondrogenesis of OA human bone marrow MSCs (hBMSCs). Then, the level and distribution of metabolites was analyzed in these cells and healthy controls by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI-MSI), leading to the recognition of characteristic metabolomic profiles at the early stages of differentiation. Finally, integrative pathway analysis showed that UDP-glucuronic acid synthesis and amino sugar metabolism were downregulated in OA hBMSCs during chondrogenesis compared with healthy cells. Alterations in these metabolic pathways may disturb the production of hyaluronic acid (HA) and other relevant cartilage extracellular matrix (ECM) components. This work provides a novel integrative insight into the molecular alterations of osteoarthritic MSCs and potential therapeutic targets for OA drug development through the enhancement of chondrogenesis.
PXD015062	31980631	FICD activity and AMPylation remodelling modulate human neurogenesis. 	FICD activity and AMPylation remodelling modulate human neurogenesis	AMPylation, FICD, cerebral organoids., chemical-proteomics, neuronal development, phosphoramidate prodrugs	Posttranslational modification (PTM) of proteins represents an important cellular mechanism for controlling diverse functions such as signalling, localisation or protein-protein interactions. AMPylation (also termed adenylylation) has recently been discovered as a prevalent PTM for regulating protein activity. In human cells AMPylation has been exclusively studied with the FICD protein. Here we investigate the role of AMPylation in human neurogenesis by introducing a cell-permeable propargyl adenosine pronucleotide probe to infiltrate cellular AMPylation pathways and report distinct modifications in intact cancer cell lines, human-derived stem cells, neural progenitor cells (NPCs), neurons and cerebral organoids (COs) via LC-MS/MS as well as imaging methods. A total of 162 AMP modified proteins were identified. FICD-dependent AMPylation remodelling accelerates differentiation of neural progenitor cells into mature neurons in COs, demonstrating a so far unknown trigger of human neurogenesis.
PXD016932	31980643	Endothelial progeria induces adipose tissue senescence and impairs insulin sensitivity through senescence associated secretory phenotype. 	Human Endothelial Cell Secretome	Endothelial Cell, secretome, senescence	Vascular senescence is thought to play a crucial role in an ageing-associated decline of organ functions; however, whether vascular senescence is causally implicated in age-related disease remains unclear. Here we show that endothelial cell (EC) senescence induces metabolic disorders through the senescence-associated secretory phenotype. Senescence-messaging secretomes from senescent ECs induced a senescence-like state and reduced insulin receptor substrate-1 in adipocytes, which thereby impaired insulin signaling. We generated EC-specific progeroid mice that overexpressed the dominant negative form of telomeric repeat-binding factor 2 under the control of the Tie2 promoter. EC-specific progeria impaired systemic metabolic health in mice in association with adipose tissue dysfunction even while consuming normal chow. Notably, shared circulation with EC-specific progeroid mice by parabiosis sufficiently transmitted the metabolic disorders into wild-type recipient mice. Our data provides direct evidence that EC senescence impairs systemic metabolic health, and thus establishes EC senescence as a bona fide risk for age-related metabolic disease.
PXD016505	31980649	Extensive rewiring of the EGFR network in colorectal cancer cells expressing transforming levels of KRAS(G13D). 	Extensive Rewiring of the EGFR Network in Colorectal Cancer Cells Expressing Transforming Levels of KRASG13D	AP-MS, EGFR pathway, HCT-116, HKE-3, Interactomic, Proteins network, SILAC	Protein-protein-interaction networks (PPINs) organize fundamental biological processes, but how oncogenic mutations impact these interactions and their functions at a network-level scale is poorly understood. Here, we analyze how a common oncogenic KRAS mutation (KRAS(G13D)) affects PPIN structure and function of the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) network in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. Mapping >6000 PPIs shows that this network is extensively rewired in cells expressing transforming levels of KRAS(G13D) (mtKRAS). The factors driving PPIN rewiring are multifactorial including changes in protein expression and phosphorylation. Mathematical modelling also suggests that the binding dynamics of low and high affinity KRAS interactors contribute to rewiring. PPIN rewiring substantially alters the composition of protein complexes, signal flow, transcriptional regulation, and cellular phenotype. These changes are validated by targeted and global experimental analysis. Importantly, genetic alterations in the most extensively rewired PPIN nodes occur frequently in CRC and are prognostic of poor patient outcomes.
PXD016256	31980815	Cooperation of the NEIL3 and Fanconi anemia/BRCA pathways in interstrand crosslink repair. 	Cooperation of the NEIL3 and Fanconi Anemia/BRCA Pathways in Interstrand Crosslink Repair	Fanconi Anemia, NEIL3, Psoralen Interstrand crosslink	The NEIL3 DNA glycosylase is a base excision repair enzyme that excises bulky base lesions from DNA. Although NEIL3 has been shown to unhook interstrand crosslinks (ICL) in Xenopus extracts, how NEIL3 participants in ICL repair in human cells and its corporation with the canonical Fanconi anemia (FA)/BRCA pathway remain unclear. Here we show that the NEIL3 and the FA/BRCA pathways are non-epistatic in psoralen-ICL repair. The NEIL3 pathway is the major pathway for repairing psoralen-ICL, and the FA/BRCA pathway is only activated when NEIL3 is not present. Mechanistically, NEIL3 is recruited to psoralen-ICL in a rapid, PARP-dependent manner. Importantly, the NEIL3 pathway repairs psoralen-ICLs without generating double-strand breaks (DSBs), unlike the FA/BRCA pathway. In addition, we found that the RUVBL1/2 complex physically interact with NEIL3 and function within the NEIL3 pathway in psoralen-ICL repair. Moreover, TRAIP is important for the recruitment of NEIL3 but not FANCD2, and knockdown of TRAIP promotes FA/BRCA pathway activation. Interestingly, TRAIP is non-epistatic with both NEIL3 and FA pathways in psoralen-ICL repair, suggesting that TRAIP may function upstream of the two pathways. Taken together, the NEIL3 pathway is the major pathway to repair psoralen-ICL through a unique DSB-free mechanism in human cells.
PXD011673	31982532	Delineating the venom toxin arsenal of Malabar pit viper (Trimeresurus malabaricus) from the Western Ghats of India and evaluating its immunological cross-reactivity and in vitro cytotoxicity. 	Proteomics of venom from Trimeresurus malabaricus	Malabar pit viper, ProteomeXchange project tag: Toxicoproteomics (B/D-HPP), SDS-PAGE, Trimeresurus malabaricus, ion-exchange	The venom protein components of Malabar pit viper (Trimeresurus malabaricus) were identified by combining SDS-PAGE and ion-exchange chromatography pre-fractionation techniques with LC-MS/MS incorporating Novor and PEAKS-assisted de novo sequencing strategies. Total 97 proteins that belong to 16 protein families such as L-amino acid oxidase, metalloprotease, serine protease, phospholipase A2, 5'-nucleotidase, C-type lectins/snaclecs and disintegrin were recognized from the venom of a single exemplar species. Of the 97 proteins, eighteen were identified through de novo approaches. Immunological cross-reactivity assessed through ELISA and western blot indicate that the Indian antivenoms binds less effectively to Malabar pit viper venom components compared to that of Russell's viper venom. The in vitro cell viability assays suggest that compared to the normal cells, MPV venom induces concentration dependent cell death in various cancer cells. Moreover, crude venom resulted in chromatin condensation and apoptotic bodies implying the induction of apoptosis. Taken together, the present study enabled in dissecting the venom proteome of Trimeresurus malabaricus and revealed the immuno-cross-reactivity profiles of commercially available Indian polyvalent antivenoms that, in turn, is expected to provide valuable insights on the need in improving antivenom preparations against its bite.
PXD015487	31982546	Clostridium cellulovorans metabolism of cellulose as studied by comparative proteomic approach. 	Clostridium cellulovorans metabolism of cellulose as studied by comparative proteomic approach	ATP, Alcohol dehydrogenase, acetate, ethanol, glucose, pyruvate phosphate dikinase	Clostridium cellulovorans is among the most promising candidates for consolidated bioprocessing (CBP) of cellulosic biomass to liquid biofuels (ethanol, butanol). C. cellulovorans metabolizes all the main plant polysaccharides and mainly produces butyrate. Since most butyrate and butanol biosynthetic reactions from acetyl-CoA are common, introduction of single heterologous alcohol/aldehyde dehydrogenase can divert the branching-point intermediate (butyryl-CoA) towards butanol production in this strain. However, engineering C. cellulovorans metabolic pathways towards industrial utilization requires better understanding of its metabolism. The present study aimed at improving comprehension of cellulose metabolism in C. cellulovorans by comparing growth kinetics, substrate consumption/product accumulation and whole-cell soluble proteome (data available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD015487) with those of the same strain grown on a soluble carbohydrate, glucose, as the main carbon source. Growth substrate-dependent modulations of the central metabolism were detected, including regulation of several glycolytic enzymes, fermentation pathways (e.g. hydrogenase, pyruvate formate lyase, phosphate transacetylase) and nitrogen assimilation (e.g. glutamate dehydrogenase). Overexpression of hydrogenase and increased ethanol production by glucose-grown bacteria suggest a more reduced redox state. Higher energy expenditure seems to occur in cellulose-grown C. cellulovorans (likely related to overexpression and secretion of (hemi-)cellulases), which induces up-regulation of ATP synthetic pathways, e.g. acetate production and ATP synthase. SIGNIFICANCE: C. cellulovorans can metabolize all the main plant polysaccharides (cellulose, hemicelluloses and pectins) and, unlike other well established cellulolytic microorganisms, can produce butyrate. C. cellulovorans is therefore among the most attractive candidates for direct fermentation of lignocellulose to high-value chemicals and, especially, n-butanol, i.e. one of the most promising liquid biofuels for the future. Recent studies aimed at engineering n-butanol production in C. cellulovorans represent milestones towards production of biofuels through one-step fermentation of lignocellulose but also indicated that more detailed understanding of the C. cellulovorans central carbon metabolism is essential to refine metabolic engineering strategies towards improved n-butanol production in this strain. The present study helped identifying key genes associated with specific catabolic reactions and indicated modulations of central carbon metabolism (including redox and energy balance) associated with cellulose consumption. This information will be useful to determine key enzymes and possible metabolic bottlenecks to be addressed towards improved metabolic engineering of this strain.
PXD017151	31984645	Glycine Receptor Complex Analysis Using Immunoprecipitation-Blue Native Gel Electrophoresis-Mass Spectrometry. 	Glycine receptor complex analysis using immunoprecipitation-blue native gel electrophoresis-mass spectrometry	IQSEC3, blue native gel electrophoresis, glycine receptor, protein complex	The pentameric glycine receptor (GlyR), comprising the alpha1 and beta subunits, is a major inhibitory ionotropic receptor in brainstem and spinal cord. GlyRs interact with gephyrin (GPHN), a scaffold protein that anchors the GlyR in the plasma membrane and enables it to form clusters in glycinergic postsynapses. Using an interaction proteomics approach, evidence of the ArfGEFs IQ motif and Sec7 domain 3 (IQSEC3) and IQ motif and Sec7 domain 2 (IQSEC2) as two novel synaptic proteins interacting with GlyR complexes is provided. When the affinity-isolated GlyR complexes are fractionated by blue native gel electrophoresis and characterized by mass spectrometry, GlyR alpha1beta-GPHN appears as the most abundant complex with a molecular weight of =~1 MDa, and GlyR alpha1beta-GPHN-IQSEC3 as a minor protein complex of =~1.2 MDa. A third GlyR alpha1beta-GPHN-IQSEC2 complex exists at the lowest amount with a mass similar to the IQSEC3 containing complex. Using yeast two-hybrid it is demonstrated that IQSEC3 interacts with the GlyR complex by binding to the GPHN G domain at the N-terminal of the IQSEC3 IQ-like domain. The data provide direct evidence of the interaction of IQSEC3 with GlyR-GPHN complexes, underscoring a potential role of these ArfGEFs in the function of glycinergic synapses.
PXD014252	31985234	Identification of ALDH6A1 as a Potential Molecular Signature in Hepatocellular Carcinoma via Quantitative Profiling of the Mitochondrial Proteome. 	Identification of ALDH6A1 as a Potential Signature in Hepatocellular Carcinoma via Quantitative Profiling of the Mitochondrial Proteome	ALDH6A1, hepatocellular carcinoma, mitochondria, nitric oxide, reactive oxygen species	Various liver diseases, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), have been linked to mitochondrial dysfunction, reduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and elevation of nitric oxide (NO). In this study, we subjected the human liver mitochondrial proteome to extensive quantitative proteomic profiling analysis and molecular characterization to identify potential signatures indicative of cancer cell growth and progression. Sequential proteomic analysis identified 2452 mitochondrial proteins, of which 1464 and 2010 were classified as nontumor and tumor (HCC) mitochondrial proteins, respectively, with 1022 overlaps. Further metabolic mapping of the HCC mitochondrial proteins narrowed our biological characterization to four proteins, namely, ALDH4A1, LRPPRC, ATP5C1, and ALDH6A1. The latter protein, a mitochondrial methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH6A1), was most strongly suppressed in HCC tumor regions (~10-fold decrease) in contrast to LRPPRC (~6-fold increase) and was predicted to be present in plasma. Accordingly, we selected ALDH6A1 for functional analysis and engineered Hep3B cells to overexpress this protein, called ALDH6A1-O/E cells. Since ALDH6A1 is predicted to be involved in mitochondrial respiration, we assessed changes in the levels of NO and ROS in the overexpressed cell lines. Surprisingly, in ALDH6A1-O/E cells, NO was decreased nearly 50% but ROS was increased at a similar level, while the former was restored by treatment with S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine. The lactate levels were also decreased relative to control cells. Propidium iodide and Rhodamine-123 staining suggested that the decrease in NO and increase in ROS in ALDH6A1-O/E cells could be caused by depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi). Taken together, our results suggest that hepatic neoplastic transformation appears to suppress the expression of ALDH6A1, which is accompanied by a respective increase and decrease in NO and ROS in cancer cells. Given the close link between ALDH6A1 suppression and abnormal cancer cell growth, this protein may serve as a potential molecular signature or biomarker of hepatocarcinogenesis and treatment responses.
PXD015828	31987035	The mitochondrial HSP90 paralog TRAP1 forms an OXPHOS-regulated tetramer and is involved in mitochondrial metabolic homeostasis. 	Total proteome analysis of WT vs TRAP1 KO in HCT-116 and HEK-293T cells grown on different carbon sources.	Hsp90, Molecular chaperone, TRAP1, mitochondrion, oxidative phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: The molecular chaperone TRAP1, the mitochondrial isoform of cytosolic HSP90, remains poorly understood with respect to its pivotal role in the regulation of mitochondrial metabolism. Most studies have found it to be an inhibitor of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and an inducer of the Warburg phenotype of cancer cells. However, others have reported the opposite, and there is no consensus on the relevant TRAP1 interactors. This calls for a more comprehensive analysis of the TRAP1 interactome and of how TRAP1 and mitochondrial metabolism mutually affect each other. RESULTS: We show that the disruption of the gene for TRAP1 in a panel of cell lines dysregulates OXPHOS by a metabolic rewiring that induces the anaplerotic utilization of glutamine metabolism to replenish TCA cycle intermediates. Restoration of wild-type levels of OXPHOS requires full-length TRAP1. Whereas the TRAP1 ATPase activity is dispensable for this function, it modulates the interactions of TRAP1 with various mitochondrial proteins. Quantitatively by far, the major interactors of TRAP1 are the mitochondrial chaperones mtHSP70 and HSP60. However, we find that the most stable stoichiometric TRAP1 complex is a TRAP1 tetramer, whose levels change in response to both a decline and an increase in OXPHOS. CONCLUSIONS: Our work provides a roadmap for further investigations of how TRAP1 and its interactors such as the ATP synthase regulate cellular energy metabolism. Our results highlight that TRAP1 function in metabolism and cancer cannot be understood without a focus on TRAP1 tetramers as potentially the most relevant functional entity.
PXD014000	31987133	'Shotgun' proteomic analyses without alkylation of cysteine. 	Shotgun' Proteome Analyses Do Not Require Alkylation of Cysteine	Shotgun proteomics, iodoacetamide, thiol alkylation	It is a common belief that reduction of disulfide bridges and alkylation of thiols in proteins are indispensable steps in proteomic sample preparation. Since this chemical procedure is often incomplete and prone to side reactions we reexamined its importance. We found that reduction and alkylation do not increase the depth of analysis and quality of proteomic quantification and therefore these steps are not essential in 'shotgun'-type investigations of proteomes. Moreover, we found that compared to a standard procedure using iodoacetamide for thiol-alkylation, sample preparation under conditions protecting thiols from oxidation improves quality of peptides and allows identifying of 10-20% more peptides and proteins. Excluding thiol-alkylation from proteomic sample preparation shortens the workflows and decreases the probability of biases resulting from occurrence of artificially modified peptides.
PXD015394	31988137	A precisely positioned MED12 activation helix stimulates CDK8 kinase activity. 	A precisely positioned MED12 activation helix stimulates CDK8 kinase activity	Chemical cross-linking, DMTMM, DSS, PDH, kinase, mediator complex, structural proteomics	The Mediator kinase module regulates eukaryotic transcription by phosphorylating transcription-related targets and by modulating the association of Mediator and RNA polymerase II. The activity of its catalytic core, cyclin-dependent kinase 8 (CDK8), is controlled by Cyclin C and regulatory subunit MED12, with its deregulation contributing to numerous malignancies. Here, we combine in vitro biochemistry, cross-linking coupled to mass spectrometry, and in vivo studies to describe the binding location of the N-terminal segment of MED12 on the CDK8/Cyclin C complex and to gain mechanistic insights into the activation of CDK8 by MED12. Our data demonstrate that the N-terminal portion of MED12 wraps around CDK8, whereby it positions an "activation helix" close to the T-loop of CDK8 for its activation. Intriguingly, mutations in the activation helix that are frequently found in cancers do not diminish the affinity of MED12 for CDK8, yet likely alter the exact positioning of the activation helix. Furthermore, we find the transcriptome-wide gene-expression changes in human cells that result from a mutation in the MED12 activation helix to correlate with deregulated genes in breast and colon cancer. Finally, functional assays in the presence of kinase inhibitors reveal that binding of MED12 remodels the active site of CDK8 and thereby precludes the inhibition of ternary CDK8 complexes by type II kinase inhibitors. Taken together, our results not only allow us to propose a revised model of how CDK8 activity is regulated by MED12, but also offer a path forward in developing small molecules that target CDK8 in its MED12-bound form.
PXD011326	31988461	iPSC modeling of young-onset Parkinson's disease reveals a molecular signature of disease and novel therapeutic candidates. 	An iPSC Model of Early Onset Parkinson's Disease	Parkinsons Disease, iPSC	Young-onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD), defined by onset at <50 years, accounts for approximately 10% of all Parkinson's disease cases and, while some cases are associated with known genetic mutations, most are not. Here induced pluripotent stem cells were generated from control individuals and from patients with YOPD with no known mutations. Following differentiation into cultures containing dopamine neurons, induced pluripotent stem cells from patients with YOPD showed increased accumulation of soluble alpha-synuclein protein and phosphorylated protein kinase Calpha, as well as reduced abundance of lysosomal membrane proteins such as LAMP1. Testing activators of lysosomal function showed that specific phorbol esters, such as PEP005, reduced alpha-synuclein and phosphorylated protein kinase Calpha levels while increasing LAMP1 abundance. Interestingly, the reduction in alpha-synuclein occurred through proteasomal degradation. PEP005 delivery to mouse striatum also decreased alpha-synuclein production in vivo. Induced pluripotent stem cell-derived dopaminergic cultures reveal a signature in patients with YOPD who have no known Parkinson's disease-related mutations, suggesting that there might be other genetic contributions to this disorder. This signature was normalized by specific phorbol esters, making them promising therapeutic candidates.
PXD014893	31988462	Somatic gene editing ameliorates skeletal and cardiac muscle failure in pig and human models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. 	Proteome analysis of skeletal muscle samples from a porcine model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy treated by somatic gene editing	Duchenne muscular dystrophy, porcine model, somatic gene editing	Frameshift mutations in the DMD gene, encoding dystrophin, cause Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), leading to terminal muscle and heart failure in patients. Somatic gene editing by sequence-specific nucleases offers new options for restoring the DMD reading frame, resulting in expression of a shortened but largely functional dystrophin protein. Here, we validated this approach in a pig model of DMD lacking exon 52 of DMD (DMDDelta52), as well as in a corresponding patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cell model. In DMDDelta52 pigs(1), intramuscular injection of adeno-associated viral vectors of serotype 9 carrying an intein-split Cas9 (ref. (2)) and a pair of guide RNAs targeting sequences flanking exon 51 (AAV9-Cas9-gE51) induced expression of a shortened dystrophin (DMDDelta51-52) and improved skeletal muscle function. Moreover, systemic application of AAV9-Cas9-gE51 led to widespread dystrophin expression in muscle, including diaphragm and heart, prolonging survival and reducing arrhythmogenic vulnerability. Similarly, in induced pluripotent stem cell-derived myoblasts and cardiomyocytes of a patient lacking DMDDelta52, AAV6-Cas9-g51-mediated excision of exon 51 restored dystrophin expression and amelioreate skeletal myotube formation as well as abnormal cardiomyocyte Ca(2+) handling and arrhythmogenic susceptibility. The ability of Cas9-mediated exon excision to improve DMD pathology in these translational models paves the way for new treatment approaches in patients with this devastating disease.
PXD011496	31989173	ADAPT identifies an ESCRT complex composition that discriminates VCaP from LNCaP prostate cancer cell exosomes. 	ADAPT identifies an ESCRT complex composition that discriminates VCaP from LNCaP prostate cancer cell exosomes	ADAPT, Aptamers, ESCRT complex, Exosomes, Prostate Cancer Cells	Libraries of single-stranded oligodeoxynucleotides (ssODNs) can be enriched for sequences that specifically bind molecules on naive complex biological samples like cells or tissues. Depending on the enrichment strategy, the ssODNs can identify molecules specifically associated with a defined biological condition, for example a pathological phenotype, and thus are potentially useful for biomarker discovery. We performed ADAPT, a variant of SELEX, on exosomes secreted by VCaP prostate cancer cells. A library of ~1011 ssODNs was enriched for those that bind to VCaP exosomes and discriminate them from exosomes derived from LNCaP prostate cancer cells. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) identified the best discriminating ssODNs, nine of which were resynthesized and their discriminatory ability confirmed by qPCR. Affinity purification with one of the sequences (Sequence 7) combined with LC-MS/MS identified its molecular target complex, whereof most proteins are part of or associated with the multiprotein ESCRT complex participating in exosome biogenesis. Within this complex, YBX1 was identified as the directly-bound target protein. ADAPT thus is able to differentiate exosomes from cancer cell subtypes from the same lineage. The composition of ESCRT complexes in exosomes from VCaP versus LNCaP cells might constitute a discriminatory element between these prostate cancer subtypes.
PXD016371	31989825	Combining Proximity Labeling and Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry for Proteomic Dissection of Nuclear Envelope Interactome. 	Combining proximity labeling and crosslinking mass spectrometry for proteomic dissection of nuclear envelope interactome	BASU, Crosslinking, DSS, LAP1, Proximity labeling	Proximity labeling (PL) and chemical cross-linking (XL) mass spectrometry are two powerful methods to dissect protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in cells. Although PL typically captures neighboring proteins within a range of 10-20 nm of a single bait protein, chemical XL defines direct protein-protein contacts within 1 nm in a systemic manner. Here, we develop a new method, named PL/XL-MS, to harness the advantages of both PL and XL. PL/XL-MS can enrich a subcellular compartment by PL and simultaneously identify PPIs of multiple proteins from XL data. We applied PL/XL-MS to dissect the human nuclear envelope interactome. PL/XL-MS successfully enriched the nuclear envelope proteins and identified most known inner nuclear membrane proteins. By searching the cross-linked peptides, we successfully observed 109 literature-curated PPIs of 14 nuclear envelope proteins. Based on the homoprotein XL data, we experimentally characterized a nuclear matrix protein, Matrin-3, and observed its preferential localization near the nuclear envelope. PL/XL-MS is a simple and general method for studying protein networks in a subproteome of interest.
PXD016517	31991085	Cuticular Structure Proteomics in the Pea Aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum Reveals New Plant Virus Receptor Candidates at the Tip of Maxillary Stylets. 	Cuticular structure proteomics analyses of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum	acrostyle, aphid stylets, cuticular structure, immunolabeling, virus receptor	Aphids are phloem-feeding insects known as major pests in agriculture that are able to transmit hundreds of plant viruses. The majority of these viruses, classified as noncirculative, are retained and transported on the inner surface of the cuticle of the needle-like mouthparts while the aphids move from plant to plant. Identification of receptors of viruses within insect vectors is a key challenge because they are promising targets for alternative control strategies. The acrostyle, an organ discovered earlier within the common food/salivary canal at the tip of aphid maxillary stylets, displays proteins at the cuticle-fluid interface, some of which are receptors of noncirculative viruses. To assess the presence of stylet- and acrostyle-specific proteins and identify putative receptors, we have developed a comprehensive comparative analysis of the proteomes of four cuticular anatomical structures of the pea aphid, stylets, antennae, legs, and wings. In addition, we performed systematic immunolabeling detection of the cuticular proteins identified by mass spectrometry in dissected stylets. We thereby establish the first proteome of stylets of an insect and determine the minimal repertoire of the cuticular proteins composing the acrostyle. Most importantly, we propose a short list of plant virus receptor candidates, among which RR-1 proteins are remarkably predominant. The data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD016517).
PXD017313	31991189	Mechanisms of innate events during skin reaction following intradermal injection of seasonal influenza vaccine. 	Mechanisms of innate events during skin reaction following intradermal injection of seasonal influenza vaccine	biomarkers, innate immunity, intradermal vaccination, skin	The skin plays a crucial role in host defences against microbial attack and the innate cells must provide the immune system with sufficient information to organize these defences. This unique feature makes the skin a promising site for vaccine administration. Although cellular innate immune events during vaccination have been widely studied, initial events remain poorly understood. Our aim is to determine molecular biomarkers of skin innate reaction after intradermal (i.d.) immunization. Using an ex vivo human explant model from healthy donors, we investigated by NanoLC-MS/MS analysis and MALDI-MSI imaging, to detect innate molecular events (lipids, metabolites, proteins) few hours after i.d. administration of seasonal trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV). This multimodel approach allowed to identify early molecules differentially expressed in dermal and epidermal layers at 4 and 18 h after TIV immunization compared with control PBS. In the dermis, the most relevant network of proteins upregulated were related to cell-to-cell signalling and cell trafficking. The molecular signatures detected were associated with chemokines such as CXCL8, a chemoattractant of neutrophils. In the epidermis, the most relevant networks were associated with activation of antigen-presenting cells and related to CXCL10. Our study proposes a novel step-forward approach to identify biomarkers of skin innate reaction. SIGNIFICANCE: To our knowledge, there is no study analyzing innate molecular reaction to vaccines at the site of skin immunization. What is known on skin reaction is based on macroscopic (erythema, redness...), microscopic (epidermal and dermal tissues) and cellular events (inflammatory cell infiltrate). Therefore, we propose a multimodal approach to analyze molecular events at the site of vaccine injection on skin tissue. We identified early molecular networks involved biological functions such cell migration, cell-to-cell interaction and antigen presentation, validated by chemokine expression, in the epidermis and dermis, then could be used as early indicator of success in immunization.
PXD010053	31992638	Mapping proteome-wide targets of protein kinases in plant stress responses. 	Mapping Proteome-Wide Targets of Protein Kinases in Response to Stresses	Phosphoproteomics, Plant kinase, Stress	Protein kinases are major regulatory components in almost all cellular processes in eukaryotic cells. By adding phosphate groups, protein kinases regulate the activity, localization, protein-protein interactions, and other features of their target proteins. It is known that protein kinases are central components in plant responses to environmental stresses such as drought, high salinity, cold, and pathogen attack. However, only a few targets of these protein kinases have been identified. Moreover, how these protein kinases regulate downstream biological processes and mediate stress responses is still largely unknown. In this study, we introduce a strategy based on isotope-labeled in vitro phosphorylation reactions using in vivo phosphorylated peptides as substrate pools and apply this strategy to identify putative substrates of nine protein kinases that function in plant abiotic and biotic stress responses. As a result, we identified more than 5,000 putative target sites of osmotic stress-activated SnRK2.4 and SnRK2.6, abscisic acid-activated protein kinases SnRK2.6 and casein kinase 1-like 2 (CKL2), elicitor-activated protein kinase CDPK11 and MPK6, cold-activated protein kinase MPK6, H2O2-activated protein kinase OXI1 and MPK6, and salt-induced protein kinase SOS1 and MPK6, as well as the low-potassium-activated protein kinase CIPK23. These results provide comprehensive information on the role of these protein kinases in the control of cellular activities and could be a valuable resource for further studies on the mechanisms underlying plant responses to environmental stresses.
PXD014751	31992752	Biomarker discovery for chronic liver diseases by multi-omics - a preclinical case study. 	Comparative proteomics of liver and plasma on the CDAA rat NASH model	Han Wistar rat, Liver, Plasma	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a major cause of liver fibrosis with increasing prevalence worldwide. Currently there are no approved drugs available. The development of new therapies is difficult as diagnosis and staging requires biopsies. Consequently, predictive plasma biomarkers would be useful for drug development. Here we present a multi-omics approach to characterize the molecular pathophysiology and to identify new plasma biomarkers in a choline-deficient L-amino acid-defined diet rat NASH model. We analyzed liver samples by RNA-Seq and proteomics, revealing disease relevant signatures and a high correlation between mRNA and protein changes. Comparison to human data showed an overlap of inflammatory, metabolic, and developmental pathways. Using proteomics analysis of plasma we identified mainly secreted proteins that correlate with liver RNA and protein levels. We developed a multi-dimensional attribute ranking approach integrating multi-omics data with liver histology and prior knowledge uncovering known human markers, but also novel candidates. Using regression analysis, we show that the top-ranked markers were highly predictive for fibrosis in our model and hence can serve as preclinical plasma biomarkers. Our approach presented here illustrates the power of multi-omics analyses combined with plasma proteomics and is readily applicable to human biomarker discovery.
PXD014044	31994402	Proto-Oncogene Serine/Threonine Kinase PIM3 Promotes Cell Migration via Modulating Rho GTPase Signaling. 	Quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics reveal that PIM3 modulates cell migration via regulating Rho GTPase signaling	cell, liver	The proto-oncogene serine/threonine-protein kinase PIM3 plays critical roles in cancer, and it has been extensively exploited as a drug target. Here, we investigated the quantitative changes in the cellular proteome and phosphoproteome in liver cancer cells overexpressing PIM3 to obtain a better understanding of the regulatory functions of PIM3 and the underlying molecular mechanisms. This work depicted the landscape of gene expression and protein phosphorylation potentially regulated by PIM3. A signaling network analysis showed that PIM3 may coordinate various cellular processes, for example, signal transduction, cell cycle, apoptosis, and so forth. Intriguingly, quantitative phosphoproteomics revealed that the PIM3 overexpression elevated the phosphorylation of multiple Rho GTPase modulators that target RhoA, a central modulator of cell movement. Further investigations confirmed that PIM3 activated RhoA to subsequently regulate cytoskeletal rearrangements and cell migration. Taken together, this study comprehensively mapped the proteome and phosphoproteome regulated by PIM3 and revealed its role in promoting liver cancer cell migration and invasion by modulating Rho GTPase signaling.
PXD037988	31994890	Multiplexed Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of HEK293 Provides Insights into Molecular Changes Associated with the Cell Density Effect, Transient Transfection, and Virus-Like Particle Production. 	Exosome-associated AAV in HEK293 cells by LC-MS/MS	HEK293, cells, exosome	The production of virus-like particles (VLPs) has gained importance over the last few years owing to the benefits they provide compared to conventional vaccines. The biopharmaceutical industry is currently searching for safer candidates based on VLPs for new and existing vaccines and implementing new methods of manufacturing, thus allowing a more sustainable, effective, and species-specific production. Despite achieving lower yields compared to traditional platforms, the use of mammalian cells provides the right post-translational modifications, and consequently, the intensification of bioprocesses using mammalian cell platforms has become a matter of pressing concern. One of the methods subjected to intensification is transient gene expression, which has been proven to be highly effective regarding VLP production for preclinical or even clinical trials. In this work, a multiplexed quantitative proteomic approach has been applied to study the molecular characteristics of HEK293 cell cultures when growing at cell densities higher than 4 x 10(6) cells/mL and to study the effects related to cell transfection and VLP production. The obtained results revealed a set of functional and metabolic profiles of HEK293 under these three different conditions that allowed the identification of physiological bottlenecks regarding VLP production. Regarding the cell density effect, molecular alterations in the cell biology were proposed to help explain the difficulty for the cells to be transfected at higher densities. In addition, an overall disruption of cellular homeostasis after transfection was observed based on altered biological processes, and after identifying potential pathways liable to be optimized via metabolic engineering, different solutions were proposed to improve VLP production.
PXD015208	31994892	Middle-Down Proteomics Reveals Dense Sites of Methylation and Phosphorylation in Arginine-Rich RNA-Binding Proteins. 	Middle-down proteomics reveals RNA binding proteins harbor dense sites of methylation and phosphorylation	ETD, RS protein, basic-acidic domains, decision tree, middle-down	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) within arginine (Arg)-rich RNA-binding proteins, such as phosphorylation and methylation, regulate multiple steps in RNA metabolism. However, the identification of PTMs within Arg-rich domains with complete trypsin digestion is extremely challenging due to the high density of Arg residues within these proteins. Here, we report a middle-down proteomic approach coupled with electron-transfer dissociation (ETD) mass spectrometry to map previously unknown sites of phosphorylation and methylation within the Arg-rich domains of U1-70K and structurally similar RNA-binding proteins from nuclear extracts of human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293T cells. Notably, the Arg-rich domains in RNA-binding proteins are densely modified by methylation and phosphorylation compared with the remainder of the proteome, with methylation and phosphorylation favoring RSRS motifs. Although they favor a common motif, analysis of combinatorial PTMs within RSRS motifs indicates that phosphorylation and methylation do not often co-occur, suggesting that they may functionally oppose one another. Furthermore, we show that phosphorylation may modify interactions between Arg-rich proteins, as serine-arginine splicing factor 2 (SRSF2) has a stronger association with U1-70K and LUC7L3 upon dephosphorylation. Collectively, these findings suggest that the level of PTMs within Arg-rich domains may be among the highest in the proteome and a possible unexplored regulator of RNA-binding protein interactions.
PXD013260	31995605	Metabolic syndrome diminishes insulin-induced Akt activation and causes a redistribution of Akt-interacting proteins in cardiomyocytes. 	Label free mass spectrometry quantification of Akt interacting proteins in insulin stimulated cardiomyocytes from Metabolic Syndrome Rats.	Akt, cardiomyocytes, insulin resistance, label-free mass spectrometry, metabolic syndrome.	Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of cardiometabolic risk factors, with insulin resistance as a critical component for its development. Insulin signaling in the heart leads to Akt (also known as PKB) activation, a serine/threonine protein kinase, which regulates cardiac glucose metabolism and growth. Cardiac metabolic inflexibility, characterized by impaired insulin-induced glucose uptake and oxidation, has been reported as an early and consistent change in the heart of different models of MetS and diabetes; however, the evaluation of Akt activation has yielded variable results. Here we report in cardiomyocytes of MetS rats, diminished insulin-induced glucose uptake and Akt activation, evaluated by its impaired mobilization towards the plasma membrane and phosphorylation, and reflected in a re-distribution of its interacting proteins, assessed by label-free mass spectrometry (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013260). We report 45 proteins with diminished abundance in Akt complex of MetS cardiomyocytes, mainly represented by energy metabolism-related proteins, and also, 31 Akt-interacting proteins with increased abundance, which were mainly related to contraction, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and Akt negative regulation. These results emphasize the relevance of Akt in the regulation of energy metabolism in the heart and highlight Akt-interacting proteins that could be involved in the detrimental effects of MetS in the heart.
PXD014807	31995760	Domain Model Explains Propagation Dynamics and Stability of Histone H3K27 and H3K36 Methylation Landscapes. 	Domain model explains propagation dynamics and stability of K27 and K36 methylation landscape	Chromatin domains, Data modeling, Histone modifications, Q-Exactive HF	Chromatin states must be maintained during cell proliferation to uphold cellular identity and genome integrity. Inheritance of histone modifications is central in this process. However, the histone modification landscape is challenged by incorporation of new unmodified histones during each cell cycle, and the principles governing heritability remain unclear. We take a quantitative computational modeling approach to describe propagation of histone H3K27 and H3K36 methylation states. We measure combinatorial H3K27 and H3K36 methylation patterns by quantitative mass spectrometry on subsequent generations of histones. Using model comparison, we reject active global demethylation and invoke the existence of domains defined by distinct methylation endpoints. We find that H3K27me3 on pre-existing histones stimulates the rate of de novo H3K27me3 establishment, supporting a read-write mechanism in timely chromatin restoration. Finally, we provide a detailed quantitative picture of the mutual antagonism between H3K27 and H3K36 methylation and propose that it stabilizes epigenetic states across cell division.
PXD016322	31995765	Human Bone Marrow Is Comprised of Adipocytes with Specific Lipid Metabolism. 	Human bone marrow comprise atypical adipocytes with specific lipid metabolism	Bone Marrow adipocytes, label free quantificatio	Under caloric restriction, bone marrow adipocytes (BM-Ads) do not decrease in size compared to white adipocytes, suggesting they harbor unique metabolic properties. We compare human primary BM-Ads with paired subcutaneous adipocytes (SC-Ads) using proteomic and lipidomic approaches. We find that, although SC-Ads and BM-Ads share similar morphological features, they possess distinct lipid metabolism. Although BM-Ad shows enrichment in proteins involved in cholesterol metabolism, correlating with increased free cholesterol content, proteins involved in lipolysis were downregulated. In particular, monoacylglycerol lipase expression is strongly reduced in BM-Ads, leading to monoacylglycerol accumulation. Consequently, basal and induced lipolytic responses are absent in BM-Ads, affirming their differences in metabolic fitness upon caloric restriction. These specific metabolic features are not recapitulated in vitro using common protocols to differentiate bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. Thus, contrary to classical SC-Ads, BM-Ads display a specific lipid metabolism, as they are devoid of lipolytic activity and exhibit a cholesterol-orientated metabolism.
PXD015432	31996674	Arginine pi-stacking drives binding to fibrils of the Alzheimer protein Tau. 	Neuronal interactome changes upon aggregation of Tau	Hsp90, Tau, fibrils, molecular chaperones, protein aggregation, protein-protein interactions	Aggregation of the Tau protein into fibrils defines progression of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's Disease. The molecular basis for potentially toxic reactions of Tau aggregates is poorly understood. Here we show that pi-stacking by Arginine side-chains drives protein binding to Tau fibrils. We mapped an aggregation-dependent interaction pattern of Tau. Fibrils recruit specifically aberrant interactors characterised by intrinsically disordered regions of atypical sequence features. Arginine residues are key to initiate these aberrant interactions. Crucial for scavenging is the guanidinium group of its side chain, not its charge, indicating a key role of pi-stacking chemistry for driving aberrant fibril interactions. Remarkably, despite the non-hydrophobic interaction mode, the molecular chaperone Hsp90 can modulate aberrant fibril binding. Together, our data present a molecular mode of action for derailment of protein-protein interaction by neurotoxic fibrils.
PXD016895	31997460	Dynamic expression of intra- and extra-cellular proteome and the influence of epiphytic bacteria for Nostoc flagelliforme in response to rehydration. 	Dynamic expression of intra-and extracellular proteome and the influence of epiphytic bacteria for Nostoc flagelliforme in response to rehydration	Nostoc flagelliforme, differentially expressed proteins, exoproteome, microalgae-bacteria interaction, resuscitation	Nostoc flagelliforme is well known for its strong ecological adaptability in inhabiting desert biological soil crusts. However, the mechanism of its recovery from quiescent to active state after prolonged dormancy remains poorly characterized. Especially how exoproteome be related to the adaptive strategies and participate in the microalgae-bacteria interaction. In the present work, we analysed the intra- and extra-cellular proteome of N. flagelliforme over a complete rehydration period both in sterilization and in natural condition for the first time. The protein expression profile for N. flagelliforme has more fluctuations during the first 1 h after wetting but been relatively steady after fully hydrated. According to the extracellular proteomic datasets, we found a dynamic secretion of various extracellular hydrolytic enzymes and membrane transport proteins, which were related to peptidoglycan digestion and nutrient exchange respectively. Two-hundred and thirteen differentially expressed proteins induced by sterilization also reflect variation in nutrient exchange and highlight symbiosis between N. flagelliforme and surrounding bacteria. We also identified 112 phosphopeptides and 217 phosphorylation site of 95 protein of hydrated N. flagelliforme. The time course datasets we present here will be a reference for understanding the molecular processes underlying N. flagelliforme resuscitation and its potential role in microbial community diversification and soil desertification control.
PXD015504	31998246	Intestinal Pioneer Colonizers as Drivers of Ileal Microbial Composition and Diversity of Broiler Chickens. 	Impact of in ovo administered pioneer colonizers on intestinal proteome of young broiler chickens	Probiotics, early colonization, immunity	Given that recent advances in metagenomics have highlighted the importance of intestinal microbes for poultry health, there has been a corresponding search for early manipulation strategies of intestinal microbiota in order to advance immune system development and optimize functional properties of growth. In this study, we used the in ovo technique as an experimental model to address how early bacterial intestinal colonization could affect the development and establishment of the mature ileal microbiota. Inoculations containing one of the following: 0.2 mL of 0.9% sterile saline (S), approximately 10(2) cells of Citrobacter freundii (CF), Citrobacter species (C2) or lactic acid bacteria mixture (L) were administered via in ovo into the amnion. Results showed that Enterobacteriaceae abundance was negatively correlated with aging, although its high population at day of hatch affected the microbiota composition, delaying mature microbiota establishment. L treatment increased colonization of butyrate-producing bacteria by 3 and 10 days, and segmented filamentous bacteria in the lower ileum by 10 days. On the other hand, L-probiotic decreased the population of Enterococcaceae. In addition, L and C2 microbial communities were less diverse at 10 than 3 days of age in the upper ileum. Importantly, these findings provide a valuable resource for a potential study model for interactions between microbial colonization and associated immune responses. In conclusion, our analysis demonstrates that intestinal pioneer colonizers play a critical role in driving the course of microbial community composition and diversity over time, in which early life exposure to L-based probiotic supported selection alongside greater colonization of symbiotic populations in the ileum of young broilers.
PXD016274	31998344	A LysR-Type Transcriptional Regulator LcrX Is Involved in Virulence, Biofilm Formation, Swimming Motility, Siderophore Secretion, and Growth in Sugar Sources in Xanthomonas axonopodis Pv. glycines. 	Comparative proteomic analysis for A LysR-type transcriptional regulator LcrX in Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. glycines	LysR type transcriptional regulators, Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. glycines	Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. glycines (Xag) is a Gram-negative bacterium that causes bacterial pustule disease in soybean. To acclimate to new environments, the expression of genes in bacteria is controlled directly or indirectly by diverse transcriptional factors. Among them, LysR type transcriptional regulators are well-characterized and abundant in bacteria. In a previous study, comparative proteomic analysis revealed that LysR type carbohydrate-related transcriptional regulator in Xag (LcrX) was more abundant in XVM2, which is a minimal medium, compared with a rich medium. However, the functions of LcrX in Xag have not been characterized. In this study, we generated an LcrX-overexpressing strain, Xag(LcrX), and the knockout mutant strain, XagDeltalcrX(EV), to elucidate the functions of LcrX. Bacterial multiplication of Xag(LcrX) in soybean was significantly impaired, indicating that LcrX is related to virulence. Comparative proteomic analysis revealed that LcrX is mainly involved in carbohydrate metabolism/transport and inorganic ion transport/metabolism. Based on the results of proteomics analysis, diverse phenotypic assays were carried out. A gel electrophoresis mobility shift assay demonstrated that LcrX specifically bound to the putative promoter regions of genes encoding putative fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase and protease. Through a 96-well plate assay under various conditions, we confirmed that the growth of Xag(LcrX) was dramatically affected in the presence of various carbon sources, while the growth of XagDeltalcrX(EV) was only slightly changed. Biofilm formation activity was reduced in Xag(LcrX) but enhanced in XagDeltalcrX(EV). The production of siderophores was also decreased in Xag(LcrX) but not altered in XagDeltalcrX(EV). In contrast, LcrX was not associated with exopolysaccharide production, protease activity, or bacterial motility. These findings provide new insights into the functions of a carbohydrate-related transcriptional regulator in Xag.
PXD014413	31998842	Antibiotic production in Streptomyces is organized by a division of labor through terminal genomic differentiation. 	Proteomics survey of Streptomyces coelicolor strains with natural gross chromosome change	Antibiotics over-production, Bacteria social behavior, Chromosome change, Division of labour, Streptomyces coelicolor	One of the hallmark behaviors of social groups is division of labor, where different group members become specialized to carry out complementary tasks. By dividing labor, cooperative groups increase efficiency, thereby raising group fitness even if these behaviors reduce individual fitness. We find that antibiotic production in colonies of Streptomyces coelicolor is coordinated by a division of labor. We show that S. coelicolor colonies are genetically heterogeneous because of amplifications and deletions to the chromosome. Cells with chromosomal changes produce diversified secondary metabolites and secrete more antibiotics; however, these changes reduced individual fitness, providing evidence for a trade-off between antibiotic production and fitness. Last, we show that colonies containing mixtures of mutants and their parents produce significantly more antibiotics, while colony-wide spore production remains unchanged. By generating specialized mutants that hyper-produce antibiotics, streptomycetes reduce the fitness costs of secreted secondary metabolites while maximizing the yield and diversity of these products.
PXD011156	31999075	Proteomic Analysis of DNA Synthesis on a Structured DNA Template in Human Cellular Extracts: Interplay Between NHEJ and Replication-Associated Proteins. 	Proteomic analysis of DNA synthesis on a structured DNA template in human cellular extracts: Interplay between NHEJ and replication-associated proteins	DNA replication, NHEJ, short inverted repeats	It is established that short inverted repeats trigger base substitution mutagenesis in human cells. However, how the replication machinery deals with structured DNA is unknown. It has been previously reported that in human cell-free extracts, DNA primer extension using a structured single-stranded template is transiently blocked at DNA hairpins. Here, the proteomic analysis of proteins bound to the DNA template is reported and evidence that the DNA-PK complex (DNA-PKcs and the Ku heterodimer) recognizes, and is activated by, structured single-stranded DNA is provided. Hijacking the DNA-PK complex by double-stranded oligonucleotides results in a large removal of the pausing sites and an elevated DNA extension efficiency. Conversely, DNA-PKcs inhibition results in its stabilization on the template, along with other proteins acting downstream in the Non-Homologous End-Joining (NHEJ) pathway, especially the XRCC4-DNA ligase 4 complex and the cofactor PAXX. Retention of NHEJ factors to the DNA in the absence of DNA-PKcs activity correlates with additional halts of primer extension, suggesting that these proteins hinder the progression of the DNA synthesis at these sites. Overall these results raise the possibility that, upon binding to hairpins formed onto ssDNA during fork progression, the DNA-PK complex interferes with replication fork dynamics in vivo.
PXD016485	32001616	The noncanonical small heat shock protein HSP-17 from Caenorhabditis elegans is a selective protein aggregase. 	The non-canonical small heat shock protein from C. elegans is a molecular aggregase	C. elegans, immunoprecipitation, small heat shock protein	Small heat shock proteins (sHsps) are conserved, ubiquitous members of the proteostasis network. Canonically, they act as "holdases" and buffer unfolded or misfolded proteins against aggregation in an ATP-independent manner. Whereas bacteria and yeast each have only two sHsps in their genomes, this number is higher in metazoan genomes, suggesting a spatiotemporal and functional specialization in higher eukaryotes. Here, using recombinantly expressed and purified proteins, static light-scattering analysis, and disaggregation assays, we report that the noncanonical sHsp HSP-17 of Caenorhabditis elegans facilitates aggregation of model substrates, such as malate dehydrogenase (MDH), and inhibits disaggregation of luciferase in vitro Experiments with fluorescently tagged HSP-17 under the control of its endogenous promoter revealed that HSP-17 is expressed in the digestive and excretory organs, where its overexpression promotes the aggregation of polyQ proteins and of the endogenous kinase KIN-19. Systemic depletion of hsp-17 shortens C. elegans lifespan and severely reduces fecundity and survival upon prolonged heat stress. HSP-17 is an abundant protein exhibiting opposing chaperone activities on different substrates, indicating that it is a selective protein aggregase with physiological roles in development, digestion, and osmoregulation.
PXD016552	32001627	Monosomes actively translate synaptic mRNAs in neuronal processes. 	Monosomes actively translate synaptic mRNAs in neuronal processes	mRNA, monosomes, neuronal processes, protein synthesis	To accommodate their complex morphology, neurons localize messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and ribosomes near synapses to produce proteins locally. However, a relative paucity of polysomes (considered the active sites of translation) detected in electron micrographs of neuronal processes has suggested a limited capacity for local protein synthesis. In this study, we used polysome profiling together with ribosome footprinting of microdissected rodent synaptic regions to reveal a surprisingly high number of dendritic and/or axonal transcripts preferentially associated with monosomes (single ribosomes). Furthermore, the neuronal monosomes were in the process of active protein synthesis. Most mRNAs showed a similar translational status in the cell bodies and neurites, but some transcripts exhibited differential ribosome occupancy in the compartments. Monosome-preferring transcripts often encoded high-abundance synaptic proteins. Thus, monosome translation contributes to the local neuronal proteome.
PXD014435	32001690	A RAF-SnRK2 kinase cascade mediates early osmotic stress signaling in higher plants. 	OK-SnRK2 cascade mediates osmotic stress signaling in plant	Osmotic stress, SnRK2, osmotic stress active protein kinases	Osmoregulation is important for plant growth, development and response to environmental changes. SNF1-related protein kinase 2s (SnRK2s) are quickly activated by osmotic stress and are central components in osmotic stress and abscisic acid (ABA) signaling pathways; however, the upstream components required for SnRK2 activation and early osmotic stress signaling are still unknown. Here, we report a critical role for B2, B3 and B4 subfamilies of Raf-like kinases (RAFs) in early osmotic stress as well as ABA signaling in Arabidopsis thaliana. B2, B3 and B4 RAFs are quickly activated by osmotic stress and are required for phosphorylation and activation of SnRK2s. Analyses of high-order mutants of RAFs reveal critical roles of the RAFs in osmotic stress tolerance and ABA responses as well as in growth and development. Our findings uncover a kinase cascade mediating osmoregulation in higher plants.
PXD016917	32001717	The tight junction protein TJP1 regulates the feeding-modulated hepatic circadian clock. 	Protein identification in mouse liver by LC-MSMS	hepatocytes, liver	Circadian clocks in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and peripheral tissues orchestrate behavioral and physiological activities of mammals in response to environmental cues. In the liver, the circadian clock is also modulated by feeding. However, the molecular mechanisms involved are unclear. Here, we show that TJP1 (tight junction protein 1) functions as a mediator of mTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin) to modulate the hepatic circadian clock. TJP1 interacts with PER1 (period circadian regulator 1) and prevents its nuclear translocation. During feeding, mTOR phosphorylates TJP1 and attenuates its association with PER1, thereby enhancing nuclear shuttling of PER1 to dampen circadian oscillation. Therefore, our results provide a previously uncharacterized mechanistic insight into how feeding modulates the hepatic circadian clock.
PXD006553	32001775	Amine oxidase 3 is a novel pro-inflammatory marker of oxidative stress in peritoneal endometriosis lesions. 	Altered inflammatory and pro-angiogenic responses caused by imbalanced protection against oxidative stress in endometriosis	Endometriosis	Endometriosis is a common gynaecological disease of women in reproductive age, and is thought to arise from retrograde menstruation and implantation of endometrial tissue, mostly into the peritoneal cavity. The condition is characterized by a chronic, unresolved inflammatory process thereby contributing to pain as cardinal symptom in endometriosis. Elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative stress have been postulated as factors in endometriosis pathogenesis. We here set out for a systematic study to identify novel mechanisms and pathways relating to oxidative stress in ectopic peritoneal lesions. Using combined proteomic and transcriptomic approaches, we identified novel targets including upregulated pro-oxidative enzymes, such as amine oxidase 3/vascular adhesion protein 1 (AOC3/VAP1) as well as downregulated protective factors, in particular alkenal reductase PTGR1 and methionine sulfoxide reductase. Consistent with an altered ROS landscape, we observed hemoglobin / iron overload, ROS production and lipid peroxidation in ectopic lesions. ROS-derived 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal induced interleukin IL-8 release from monocytes. Notably, AOC3 inhibitors provoked analgesic effects in inflammatory pain models in vivo, suggesting potential translational applicability.
PXD016745	32004342	Community-intrinsic properties enhance keratin degradation from bacterial consortia. 	Community-intrinsic properties enhance keratin degradation from bacterial consortia	bacteria, community, inter-species interactions, keratin degradation	Although organic matter may accumulate sometimes (e.g. lignocellulose in peat bog), most natural biodegradation processes are completed until full mineralization. Such transformations are often achieved by the concerted action of communities of interacting microbes, involving different species each performing specific tasks. These interactions can give rise to novel "community-intrinsic" properties, through e.g. activation of so-called "silent genetic pathways" or synergistic interplay between microbial activities and functions. Here we studied the microbial community-based degradation of keratin, a recalcitrant biological material, by four soil isolates, which have previously been shown to display synergistic interactions during biofilm formation; Stenotrophomonas rhizophila, Xanthomonas retroflexus, Microbacterium oxydans and Paenibacillus amylolyticus. We observed enhanced keratin weight loss in cultures with X. retroflexus, both in dual and four-species co-cultures, as compared to expected keratin degradation by X. retroflexus alone. Additional community intrinsic properties included accelerated keratin degradation rates and increased biofilm formation on keratin particles. Comparison of secretome profiles of X. retroflexus mono-cultures to co-cultures revealed that certain proteases (e.g. serine protease S08) were significantly more abundant in mono-cultures, whereas co-cultures had an increased abundance of proteins related to maintaining the redox environment, e.g. glutathione peroxidase. Hence, one of the mechanisms related to the community intrinsic properties, leading to enhanced degradation from co-cultures, might be related to a switch from sulfitolytic to proteolytic functions between mono- and co-cultures, respectively.
PXD016825	32009249	Outer membrane lipoprotein NlpI scaffolds peptidoglycan hydrolases within multi-enzyme complexes in Escherichia coli. 	NlpI scaffolds hydrolases within peptidoglycan multi-enzyme complexes in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, affinity chromatography	The peptidoglycan (PG) sacculus provides bacteria with the mechanical strength to maintain cell shape and resist osmotic stress. Enlargement of the mesh-like sacculus requires the combined activity of peptidoglycan synthases and hydrolases. In Escherichia coli, the activity of two PG synthases is driven by lipoproteins anchored in the outer membrane (OM). However, the regulation of PG hydrolases is less well understood, with only regulators for PG amidases having been described. Here, we identify the OM lipoprotein NlpI as a general adaptor protein for PG hydrolases. NlpI binds to different classes of hydrolases and can specifically form complexes with various PG endopeptidases. In addition, NlpI seems to contribute both to PG elongation and division biosynthetic complexes based on its localization and genetic interactions. Consistent with such a role, we reconstitute PG multi-enzyme complexes containing NlpI, the PG synthesis regulator LpoA, its cognate bifunctional synthase, PBP1A, and different endopeptidases. Our results indicate that peptidoglycan regulators and adaptors are part of PG biosynthetic multi-enzyme complexes, regulating and potentially coordinating the spatiotemporal action of PG synthases and hydrolases.
PXD015964	32010092	A Novel D-Galacturonate Fermentation Pathway in Lactobacillus suebicus Links Initial Reactions of the Galacturonate-Isomerase Route With the Phosphoketolase Pathway. 	Investigation of fermentation process of a Lactobacillus suebicus	Lactobacillus suebicus, discovery proteomics	D-galacturonate, a key constituent of pectin, is a ubiquitous monomer in plant biomass. Anaerobic, fermentative conversion of D-galacturonate is therefore relevant in natural environments as well as in microbial processes for microbial conversion of pectin-containing agricultural residues. In currently known microorganisms that anaerobically ferment D-galacturonate, its catabolism occurs via the galacturonate-isomerase pathway. Redox-cofactor balancing in this pathway strongly constrains the possible range of products generated from anaerobic D-galacturonate fermentation, resulting in acetate as the predominant organic fermentation product. To explore metabolic diversity of microbial D-galacturonate fermentation, anaerobic enrichment cultures were performed at pH 4. Anaerobic batch and chemostat cultures of a dominant Lactobacillus suebicus strain isolated from these enrichment cultures produced near-equimolar amounts of lactate and acetate from D-galacturonate. A combination of whole-genome sequence analysis, quantitative proteomics, enzyme activity assays in cell extracts, and in vitro product identification demonstrated that D-galacturonate metabolism in L. suebicus occurs via a novel pathway. In this pathway, mannonate generated by the initial reactions of the canonical isomerase pathway is converted to 6-phosphogluconate by two novel biochemical reactions, catalyzed by a mannonate kinase and a 6-phosphomannonate 2-epimerase. Further catabolism of 6-phosphogluconate then proceeds via known reactions of the phosphoketolase pathway. In contrast to the classical isomerase pathway for D-galacturonate catabolism, the novel pathway enables redox-cofactor-neutral conversion of D-galacturonate to ribulose-5-phosphate. While further research is required to identify the structural genes encoding the key enzymes for the novel pathway, its redox-cofactor coupling is highly interesting for metabolic engineering of microbial cell factories for conversion of pectin-containing feedstocks into added-value fermentation products such as ethanol or lactate. This study illustrates the potential of microbial enrichment cultivation to identify novel pathways for the conversion of environmentally and industrially relevant compounds.
PXD013648	32010136	IL8 and PMA Trigger the Regulation of Different Biological Processes in Granulocyte Activation. 	The equine granulocyte proteome: expression changes in autoimmune disease and after stimulation	IL8, autoimmune disease, granulocyte	The molecular mechanisms driving specific regulation of neutrophils are not completely understood to date. In order to characterize fundamental granulocyte features on protein level, we analyzed changes in proteome composition as reaction to stress from cell activation processes. For this purpose, we isolated primary granulocytes from equine whole blood through density gradient centrifugation followed by sodium chloride lysis and stimulated cells for 30 min with interleukin-8 (IL8) due to its role as a chemotactic factor for neutrophils. We additionally used phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which are primarily associated to neutrophil extracellular trap formation and release of reactive oxygen species. From mass spectrometry analysis, we identified a total of 2,032 proteins describing the whole granulocyte proteome, including 245 proteins (12% of identified proteome) newly associated to in vivo expression in primary equine granulocytes (hypothetical proteins). We also found distinct and different changes in protein abundance (ratio >= 2) after short stimulation of cells with various stimuli, pointing to rapid and differentiated reaction pattern. IL8 stimulation resulted in increased protein abundance of 58 proteins (3% of proteome), whereas PMA induced changed protein abundance of 207 (10 % of proteome) and LPS of 46 proteins (2% of proteome). Enrichment analyses clearly showed fundamental differences between stimuli, with primary association of IL8 stimulation to processes in immune response, receptor signaling and signal transduction. Top enrichment for PMA on the other hand pointed to vesicle mediated transport and exocytosis. Stimulation with LPS did not result in any significant enrichment. Although we detected 43% overlap of enrichment categories for IL8 and PMA stimulation, indicating that activation of neutrophils with different stimuli partly induces some similar biological processes and pathways, hierarchical clustering showed clear differences in distribution and biological relevance of clusters between the chosen stimuli. Our studies provide novel information on the granulocyte proteome and offer insights into early, differentiated granulocyte reaction to stimuli, which contribute to a better understanding of molecular mechanisms involved in activation and recruitment of neutrophils, through inflammatory stimuli.
PXD014759	32011863	Proteome-Wide Structural Probing of Low-Abundant Protein Interactions by Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Optimized parameter settings enhance proteome-wide formation of crosslinks on low-abundant proteins	Proteome-wide XL-MS, reaction kinetics	Proteome-wide cross-linking studies have spurred great interest as they facilitate structural probing of protein interactions in living cells and organisms. However, current studies have a bias for high-abundant proteins. In this study we demonstrate both experimentally and by a kinetic model that this bias is also caused by the propensity of cross-links to preferentially form on high abundant proteins and not by the inability to detect cross-links due to limitations in current technology. We further show, by using both an in vitro mimic of a crowded cellular environment and eukaryotic cell lysates, that parameters optimized toward a pseudo first order kinetics model result in a significant increase in the detection of lower-abundant proteins on a proteome-wide scale. Our study therefore explains the cause of a major limitation in current proteome-wide cross-linking studies and demonstrates how to address a larger part of the proteome by cross-linking.
PXD016123	32012444	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomic Profiling of LAD2 Mast Cell Releasates Reveals the Mechanism of Tween-80-Induced Anaphylactoid Reaction. 	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomic Profiling of LAD2 Mast Cell Releasates	Anaphylactoid reaction, Mast cell, Tween-80	PURPOSE: Tween-80 is one of the most important causes resulting in anaphylactoid reaction. However, its mechanism remains unclear. Proteomic characterizations of mast cells' excreta in response to Tween-80 are assayed to investigate the mechanism of anaphylactoid reaction. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A label-free LCMS/MS-based proteomics is used to analyze Tween-80-stimulated Laboratory of Allergic Diseases 2 (LAD2) mast cells releasates. The results of proteomic are analyzed by bioinformatics analysis. Western blotting is used to verify the expression of proteins. RESULTS: Overall, endocytosis, nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB), and calcium signaling pathways play important roles in Tween-80-induced LAD2 cells activation by bioinformatics analysis. The expressions of relative proteins including actin-related protein 2/3 complexes, vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein, phosphorylation of transcription factor of P105 and P65, phosphorylation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3 R), phosphoinositide phospholipase Cgamma (PLCgamma), and protein kinase C (PKC), are significantly increased in Tween-80 group compared to control. Tween-80 might be internalized via endocytosis, which induces degranulation by PLCgamma/PKC pathways mediated calcium influx, and promotes the generation of inflammatory mediators via NF-kappaB pathway resulting in anaphylactoid reaction.
PXD014683	32012456	Assessment of Serological Early Biomarker Candidates for Lung Adenocarcinoma by using Multiple Reaction Monitoring-Mass Spectrometry. 	Assessment of Serological Early Biomarker Candidates for Lung Adenocarcinoma by using Multiple Reaction Monitoring-Mass Spectrometry	LC-MRM-MS, early biomarkers, lung adenocarcinoma, plasma	PURPOSE: Plasma markers that enable diagnosis in the early stage of lung cancer is not discovered. A liquid chromatography multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (LC-MRM-MS) assay for identifying potential early marker proteins for lung adenocarcinoma is developed. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: LC-MRM-MS assay is used for measuring the level of 35 candidate peptides in plasma from 102 lung adenocarcinoma patients (including n = 50, 16, 24, and 12 in stage I, II, III, and IV, respectively.) and 84 healthy controls. Stable isotope labeled standard peptides are synthesized to accurately measure the amount of these proteins. RESULTS: Seven proteins are able to distinguish stage I patients from controls. These proteins are combined in to a protein marker panel which improve the sensitivity to discriminate stage I patients from controls with cross-validated area under the curve = 0.76. Besides, it is found that low expression of eukaryotic initiation factor 4A-I and high expression of lumican show significantly poor prognosis in overall survival (p = 0.012 and 0.0074, respectively), which may be used as prognostic biomarkers for lung cancer. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Proteins highlighted here may be used for early detection of lung adenocarcinoma or therapeutics development after validation in a larger cohort.
PXD015857	32014446	Proteomic analysis of two populations of Schistosoma mansoni-derived extracellular vesicles: 15k pellet and 120k pellet vesicles. 	Proteomic analysis of two populations of Schistosoma mansoni-derived extracellular vesicles: exosome-like vesicles and microvesicles	Schistosoma mansoni, exosome-like vesicles, extracellular vesicles, microvesicles	Helminth parasites secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) into their environment that have potential roles in host-parasite communication, and thus represent potentially useful targets for novel control strategies. Here, we carried out a comprehensive proteomic analysis of two different populations of EVs - 15k pellet and 120k pellet EVs - from Schistosoma mansoni adult worms. We characterised the proteins present in the membranes of the EVs (including external trypsin-liberated peptides, integral membrane proteins (IMPs) and peripheral membrane proteins (PMPs)), as well as cargo proteins, using LC-MS/MS. A total of 286 and 716 proteins were identified in 15k and 120k pellets, respectively. Some of the most abundant proteins identified from both 15k and 120k pellets include known vaccine candidates such as Sm-TSP-2, saponin B domain-containing proteins, calpain glutathione-S-transferase, Sm29 and cathepsin domain-containing proteins. Other abundant proteins that have not been tested as vaccines include DM9 domain-containing protein, 13 kDa tegumental antigen and histone H4-like protein. Sm23, a member of the tetraspanin family with known vaccine efficacy, was identified in the cargo and IMP compartments of only 15k pellet vesicles. Moreover, a collection of proteins with known or potential relevance in host-parasite communication including proteases, antioxidants and EV biogenesis/trafficking of both vesicle types were identified. Our results provide the first report of a comprehensive compartmental proteomic analysis of adult S. mansoni-derived EVs. Future research should investigate recombinant forms of these proteins as vaccine and serodiagnostic antigens as well as the roles of EV proteins in host-parasite communication.
PXD017140	32016368	The molecular aetiology of tRNA synthetase depletion: induction of a GCN4 amino acid starvation response despite homeostatic maintenance of charged tRNA levels. 	Yeast glutamine tRNA synthetase doxycycline shut-off	SILAC, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, tRNA synthetase depletion, translation	During protein synthesis, charged tRNAs deliver amino acids to translating ribosomes, and are then re-charged by tRNA synthetases (aaRS). In humans, mutant aaRS cause a diversity of neurological disorders, but their molecular aetiologies are incompletely characterised. To understand system responses to aaRS depletion, the yeast glutamine aaRS gene (GLN4) was transcriptionally regulated using doxycycline by tet-off control. Depletion of Gln4p inhibited growth, and induced a GCN4 amino acid starvation response, indicative of uncharged tRNA accumulation and Gcn2 kinase activation. Using a global model of translation that included aaRS recharging, Gln4p depletion was simulated, confirming slowed translation. Modelling also revealed that Gln4p depletion causes negative feedback that matches translational demand for Gln-tRNAGln to aaRS recharging capacity. This maintains normal charged tRNAGln levels despite Gln4p depletion, confirmed experimentally using tRNA Northern blotting. Model analysis resolves the paradox that Gln4p depletion triggers a GCN4 response, despite maintenance of tRNAGln charging levels, revealing that normally, the aaRS population can sequester free, uncharged tRNAs during aminoacylation. Gln4p depletion reduces this sequestration capacity, allowing uncharged tRNAGln to interact with Gcn2 kinase. The study sheds new light on mutant aaRS disease aetiologies, and explains how aaRS sequestration of uncharged tRNAs can prevent GCN4 activation under non-starvation conditions.
PXD017166	32019165	Combined Proteomics and Metabolism Analysis Unravels Prominent Roles of Antioxidant System in the Prevention of Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) against Salt Stress. 	Alfalfa_salt_stress_PRM_protomics	Alfalfa, PRM, protomics, salt stress	Alfalfa is the most extensively cultivated forage legume worldwide, and salinity constitutes the main environmental scourge limiting its growth and productivity. To unravel the potential molecular mechanism involved in salt tolerance in alfalfa, we accomplished a combined analysis of parallel reaction monitoring-based proteomic technique and targeted metabolism. Based on proteomic analysis, salt stress induced 226 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). Among them, 118 DAPs related to the antioxidant system, including glutathione metabolism and oxidation-reduction pathways, were significantly up-regulated. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017166. Overall, 107 determined metabolites revealed that the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, especially the malate to oxaloacetate conversion step, was strongly stimulated by salt stress. This leads to an up-regulation by about 5 times the ratio of NADPH/NADP(+), as well as about 3 to 5 times in the antioxidant enzymes activities, including those of catalase and peroxidase and proline contents. However, the expression levels of DAPs related to the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) cycle and photorespiration pathway were dramatically inhibited following salt treatment. Consistently, metabolic analysis showed that the metabolite amounts related to carbon assimilation and photorespiration decreased by about 40% after exposure to 200 mM NaCl for 14 d, leading ultimately to a reduction in net photosynthesis by around 30%. Our findings highlighted also the importance of the supplied extra reducing power, thanks to the TCA cycle, in the well-functioning of glutathione to remove and scavenge the reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitigate subsequently the oxidative deleterious effect of salt on carbon metabolism including the CBB cycle.
PXD015403	32019799	Environmental Viscosity Modulates Interbacterial Killing during Habitat Transition. 	Environmental viscosity modulates interbacterial killing during habitat transition	1D-LC-MS/MS, Aliivibrio fischeri, Squid-Vibrio symbiosis, Type VI secretion system, Vibrio fischeri, symbiont	Symbiotic bacteria use diverse strategies to compete for host colonization sites. However, little is known about the environmental cues that modulate interbacterial competition as they transition between free-living and host-associated lifestyles. We used the mutualistic relationship between Eupyrmna scolopes squid and Vibrio fischeri bacteria to investigate how intraspecific competition is regulated as symbionts move from the seawater to a host-like environment. We recently reported that V. fischeri uses a type VI secretion system (T6SS) for intraspecific competition during host colonization. Here, we investigated how environmental viscosity impacts T6SS-mediated competition by using a liquid hydrogel medium that mimics the viscous host environment. Our data demonstrate that although the T6SS is functionally inactive when cells are grown under low-viscosity liquid conditions similar to those found in seawater, exposure to a host-like high-viscosity hydrogel enhances T6SS expression and sheath formation, activates T6SS-mediated killing in as little as 30 min, and promotes the coaggregation of competing genotypes. Finally, the use of mass spectrometry-based proteomics revealed insights into how cells may prepare for T6SS competition during this habitat transition. These findings, which establish the use of a new hydrogel culture condition for studying T6SS interactions, indicate that V. fischeri rapidly responds to the physical environment to activate the competitive mechanisms used during host colonization.IMPORTANCE Bacteria often engage in interference competition to gain access to an ecological niche, such as a host. However, little is known about how the physical environment experienced by free-living or host-associated bacteria influences such competition. We used the bioluminescent squid symbiont Vibrio fischeri to study how environmental viscosity impacts bacterial competition. Our results suggest that upon transition from a planktonic environment to a host-like environment, V. fischeri cells activate their type VI secretion system, a contact-dependent interbacterial nanoweapon, to eliminate natural competitors. This work shows that competitor cells form aggregates under host-like conditions, thereby facilitating the contact required for killing, and reveals how V. fischeri regulates a key competitive mechanism in response to the physical environment.
PXD014667	32019800	Listeria monocytogenes Exploits Mitochondrial Contact Site and Cristae Organizing System Complex Subunit Mic10 To Promote Mitochondrial Fragmentation and Cellular Infection. 	Listeria monocytogenes exploits the MICOS complex subunit Mic10 to promote mitochondrial fragmentation and cellular infection	Listeria monocytogenes, MICOS complex, Mic10, mitochondria	Mitochondrial function adapts to cellular demands and is affected by the ability of the organelle to undergo fusion and fission in response to physiological and nonphysiological cues. We previously showed that infection with the human bacterial pathogen Listeria monocytogenes elicits transient mitochondrial fission and a drop in mitochondrion-dependent energy production through a mechanism requiring the bacterial pore-forming toxin listeriolysin O (LLO). Here, we performed quantitative mitochondrial proteomics to search for host factors involved in L. monocytogenes-induced mitochondrial fission. We found that Mic10, a critical component of the mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS) complex, is significantly enriched in mitochondria isolated from cells infected with wild-type but not with LLO-deficient L. monocytogenes Increased mitochondrial Mic10 levels did not correlate with upregulated transcription, suggesting a posttranscriptional mechanism. We then showed that Mic10 is necessary for L. monocytogenes-induced mitochondrial network fragmentation and that it contributes to L. monocytogenes cellular infection independently of MICOS proteins Mic13, Mic26, and Mic27. In conclusion, investigation of L. monocytogenes infection allowed us to uncover a role for Mic10 in mitochondrial fission.IMPORTANCE Pathogenic bacteria can target host cell organelles to take control of key cellular processes and promote their intracellular survival, growth, and persistence. Mitochondria are essential, highly dynamic organelles with pivotal roles in a wide variety of cell functions. Mitochondrial dynamics and function are intimately linked. Our previous research showed that Listeria monocytogenes infection impairs mitochondrial function and triggers fission of the mitochondrial network at an early infection stage, in a process that is independent of the presence of the main mitochondrial fission protein Drp1. Here, we analyzed how mitochondrial proteins change in response to L. monocytogenes infection and found that infection raises the levels of Mic10, a mitochondrial inner membrane protein involved in formation of cristae. We show that Mic10 is important for L. monocytogenes-dependent mitochondrial fission and infection of host cells. Our findings thus offer new insight into the mechanisms used by L. monocytogenes to hijack mitochondria to optimize host infection.
PXD012557	3201	The interaction of borate and sulfite with pyridine nucleotides. 	 Small RNA-mediated transgenerational silencing of histone genes impairs fertility in piRNA mutants	Caenorhabditis elegans, WAGO-1	The kinetics and equilibria of the borate interaction at ribose with NAD+ and NMN+ have been measured using as a chromophoric probe the perturbation effect borate has on the addition of sulfite to the 4 position of the nicotinamide ring. NAD+ and NMN+ have more favorable borate association constants than do their corresponding sulfite addition complexes. The rate of interaction of the ribose moiety with borate at low borate buffer concentration is dependent on the concentration of both borate and boric acid. At high borate concentration the rate becomes independent of borate concentration, indicating the existence of a two-step process for the interaction of NAD-sulfite with borate with a change of rate-determining step from the interaction of the ribose hydroxyl group with borate at low borate to an elimination of sulfite at high borate concentration. A linear free energy relationship with a slope of 0.94 describes an increased reactivity of the nucleotide for sulfite as the affinity of the nucleotide for sulfite increases.
PXD015570	32021427	4E-BP1(Thr46) Phosphorylation Association with Poor Prognosis in Quantitative Phosphoproteomics of Portal Vein Tumor Thrombus Revealed that 4E-BP1Thr46 Phosphorylation is Associated with Poor Prognosis in HCC. 	4E-BP1Ser37 phosphorylation associate with poor prognosis in HCC revealed by quantitative phosphoproteomics of portal vein tumor thrombus	4E-BP1Ser37,quantitative phosphoproteomics,portal vein tumor thrombus	PURPOSE: Early formation of portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) is a key characteristic of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) metastasis, but to date, the aetiology of PVTT in HCC metastasis is largely unknown. We aim to find highly sensitive and specific biomarkers for the prediction of HCC prognosis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We used isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) based quantitative phosphoproteomics approach to investigate the molecular signatures of the HCC with PVTT in primary HCC tissues, surrounding non-cancerous tissues and PVTT tissues. The different proteome profiles in three groups were investigated and might reveal different underlying molecular mechanisms. RESULTS: In total, we identified 1745 phosphoproteins with 2724 phosphopeptides and 4594 phosphorylation sites in three groups. Among these phosphoproteins, 80 phosphoproteins were dysregulated in PVTT/Pan group, 51 phosphoproteins were dysregulated in HCC/Pan group, and 10 phosphoproteins were dysregulated in PVTT/HCC group. Furthermore, the phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 was elevated in HCC tissues and PVTT tissues in comparison with surrounding non-cancerous tissues,  and the elevated fold change of phosphorylation level was higher than that in expression level of 4E-BP1. The further IHC analysis in acohort of 20 HCC tissues showed that the phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 on Thr46 might be closely related to HCC prognosis. CONCLUSION: The high phosphorylation level of 4E-BP1(Thr46) might serve as a biomarker for the diagnosis of early recurrence and metastasis of HCC.
PXD013388	32021916	Programmable polyketide biosynthesis platform for production of aromatic compounds in yeast. 	Programmable polyketide biosynthesis platform for production of aromatic compounds in yeast	Metabolic engineering, S. cerevisiae, Targeted proteomics, polyketides	To accelerate the shift to bio-based production and overcome complicated functional implementation of natural and artificial biosynthetic pathways to industry relevant organisms, development of new, versatile, bio-based production platforms is required. Here we present a novel yeast-based platform for biosynthesis of bacterial aromatic polyketides. The platform is based on a synthetic polyketide synthase system enabling a first demonstration of bacterial aromatic polyketide biosynthesis in a eukaryotic host.
PXD016105	32022686	Quantitative analysis of how Myc controls T cell proteomes and metabolic pathways during T cell activation. 	Proteome of naive and TCR activated wild-type, Myc-deficient and Slc7a5-deficient T cells	Myc, Slc7a5, T lymphocyte, amino acid transport	T cell expansion and differentiation are critically dependent on the transcription factor c-Myc (Myc). Herein we use quantitative mass-spectrometry to reveal how Myc controls antigen receptor driven cell growth and proteome restructuring in murine T cells. Analysis of copy numbers per cell of >7000 proteins provides new understanding of the selective role of Myc in controlling the protein machinery that govern T cell fate. The data identify both Myc dependent and independent metabolic processes in immune activated T cells. We uncover that a primary function of Myc is to control expression of multiple amino acid transporters and that loss of a single Myc-controlled amino acid transporter effectively phenocopies the impact of Myc deletion. This study provides a comprehensive map of how Myc selectively shapes T cell phenotypes, revealing that Myc induction of amino acid transport is pivotal for subsequent bioenergetic and biosynthetic programs and licences T cell receptor driven proteome reprogramming.
PXD010657	32023468	Inverse Data-Driven Modeling and Multiomics Analysis Reveals Phgdh as a Metabolic Checkpoint of Macrophage Polarization and Proliferation. 	Inverse data-driven modelling and multiomics analysis reveals PHGDH as a metabolic signature of M2 macrophages	Macrophages, Serin pathway, TOR, TSC2, biochemical Jacobian, metabolic modelling, metabolomics	Mechanistic or mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) is an important regulator of effector functions, proliferation, and cellular metabolism in macrophages. The biochemical processes that are controlled by mTORC1 are still being defined. Here, we demonstrate that integrative multiomics in conjunction with a data-driven inverse modeling approach, termed COVRECON, identifies a biochemical node that influences overall metabolic profiles and reactions of mTORC1-dependent macrophage metabolism. Using a combined approach of metabolomics, proteomics, mRNA expression analysis, and enzymatic activity measurements, we demonstrate that Tsc2, a negative regulator of mTORC1 signaling, critically influences the cellular activity of macrophages by regulating the enzyme phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (Phgdh) in an mTORC1-dependent manner. More generally, while lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages repress Phgdh activity, IL-4-stimulated macrophages increase the activity of the enzyme required for the expression of key anti-inflammatory molecules and macrophage proliferation. Thus, we identify Phgdh as a metabolic checkpoint of M2 macrophages.
PXD012640	32023484	Partitioning of MLX-Family Transcription Factors to Lipid Droplets Regulates Metabolic Gene Expression. 	Systematic genome perturbation reveals coordination of lipid droplets and metabolic gene regulation	ChREBP, MLX, MLXIP, MLXIPL, MondoA, MondoB, glucose, lipid droplets, metabolism, transcription facot	Lipid droplets (LDs) store lipids for energy and are central to cellular lipid homeostasis. The mechanisms coordinating lipid storage in LDs with cellular metabolism are unclear but relevant to obesity-related diseases. Here we utilized genome-wide screening to identify genes that modulate lipid storage in macrophages, a cell type involved in metabolic diseases. Among ~550 identified screen hits is MLX, a basic helix-loop-helix leucine-zipper transcription factor that regulates metabolic processes. We show that MLX and glucose-sensing family members MLXIP/MondoA and MLXIPL/ChREBP bind LDs via C-terminal amphipathic helices. When LDs accumulate in cells, these transcription factors bind to LDs, reducing their availability for transcriptional activity and attenuating the response to glucose. Conversely, the absence of LDs results in hyperactivation of MLX target genes. Our findings uncover a paradigm for a lipid storage response in which binding of MLX transcription factors to LD surfaces adjusts the expression of metabolic genes to lipid storage levels.
PXD015163	32023884	Revelation of Proteomic Indicators for Colorectal Cancer in Initial Stages of Development. 	HPLC-MS/MS analysis of plasma samples from patients with colorectal cancer	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, colorectal cancer, plasma, protein	Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) at a current clinical level is still hardly diagnosed, especially with regard to nascent tumors, which are typically asymptotic. Searching for reliable biomarkers of early diagnosis is an extremely essential task. Identification of specific post-translational modifications (PTM) may also significantly improve net benefits and tailor the process of CRC recognition. We examined depleted plasma samples obtained from 41 healthy volunteers and 28 patients with CRC at different stages to conduct comparative proteome-scaled analysis. The main goal of the study was to establish a constellation of protein markers in combination with their PTMs and semi-quantitative ratios that may support and realize the distinction of CRC until the disease has a poor clinical manifestation. Results: Proteomic analysis revealed 119 and 166 proteins for patients in stages I-II and III-IV, correspondingly. Plenty of proteins (44 proteins) reflected conditions of the immune response, lipid metabolism, and response to stress, but only a small portion of them were significant (p < 0.01) for distinguishing stages I-II of CRC. Among them, some cytokines (Clusterin (CLU), C4b-binding protein (C4BP), and CD59 glycoprotein (CD59), etc.) were the most prominent and the lectin pathway was specifically enhanced in patients with CRC. Significant alterations in Inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chains (ITIH1, ITIH2, ITIH3, and ITIH4) levels were also observed due to their implication in tumor growth and the malignancy process. Other markers (Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 2 (ORM2), Alpha-1B-glycoprotein (A1BG), Haptoglobin (HP), and Leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein (LRG1), etc.) were found to create an ambiguous core involved in cancer development but also to exactly promote tumor progression in the early stages. Additionally, we identified post-translational modifications, which according to the literature are associated with the development of colorectal cancer, including kininogen 1 protein (T327-p), alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein (S138-p) and newly identified PTMs, i.e., vitamin D-binding protein (K75-ac and K370-ac) and plasma protease C1 inhibitor (Y294-p), which may also contribute and negatively impact on CRC progression. Conclusions: The contribution of cytokines and proteins of the extracellular matrix is the most significant factor in CRC development in the early stages. This can be concluded since tumor growth is tightly associated with chronic aseptic inflammation and concatenated malignancy related to loss of extracellular matrix stability. Due attention should be paid to Apolipoprotein E (APOE), Apolipoprotein C1 (APOC1), and Apolipoprotein B-100 (APOB) because of their impact on the malfunction of DNA repair and their capability to regulate mTOR and PI3K pathways. The contribution of the observed PTMs is still equivocal, but a significant decrease in the likelihood between modified and native proteins was not detected confidently.
PXD015684	32024769	Decreased Immunoglobulin G Core Fucosylation, A Player in Antibody-dependent Cell-mediated Cytotoxicity, is Associated with Autoimmune Thyroid Diseases. 	Decreased IgG core fucosylation, a player in antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, is associated with autoimmune thyroid diseases	Hashimotos thyroiditis, PBMC	Autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITD) are the most common group of autoimmune diseases, associated with lymphocyte infiltration and the production of thyroid autoantibodies, like thyroid peroxidase antibodies (TPOAb), in the thyroid gland. Immunoglobulins and cell-surface receptors are glycoproteins with distinctive glycosylation patterns that play a structural role in maintaining and modulating their functions. We investigated associations of total circulating IgG and peripheral blood mononuclear cells glycosylation with AITD and the influence of genetic background in a case-control study with several independent cohorts and over 3,000 individuals in total. The study revealed an inverse association of IgG core fucosylation with TPOAb and AITD, as well as decreased peripheral blood mononuclear cells antennary alpha1,2 fucosylation in AITD, but no shared genetic variance between AITD and glycosylation. These data suggest that the decreased level of IgG core fucosylation is a risk factor for AITD that promotes antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity previously associated with TPOAb levels.
PXD011950	32024770	Phenotypic Adaption of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by Hacking Siderophores Produced by Other Microorganisms. 	Effect of xenosiderophores on Pseudomonas aeruginosa proteome	Pseudomonas, shotgun proteomics, xenosiderophores	Bacteria secrete siderophores to access iron, a key nutrient poorly bioavailable and the source of strong competition between microorganisms in most biotopes. Many bacteria also use siderophores produced by other microorganisms (exosiderophores) in a piracy strategy. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, an opportunistic pathogen, produces two siderophores, pyoverdine and pyochelin, and is also able to use a panel of exosiderophores. We first investigated expression of the various iron-uptake pathways of P. aeruginosa in three different growth media using proteomic and RT-qPCR approaches and observed three different phenotypic patterns, indicating complex phenotypic plasticity in the expression of the various iron-uptake pathways. We then investigated the phenotypic plasticity of iron-uptake pathway expression in the presence of various exosiderophores (present individually or as a mixture) under planktonic growth conditions, as well as in an epithelial cell infection assay. In all growth conditions tested, catechol-type exosiderophores were clearly more efficient in inducing the expression of their corresponding transporters than the others, showing that bacteria opt for the use of catechol siderophores to access iron when they are present in the environment. In parallel, expression of the proteins of the pyochelin pathway was significantly repressed under most conditions tested, as well as that of proteins of the pyoverdine pathway, but to a lesser extent. There was no effect on the expression of the heme and ferrous uptake pathways. Overall, these data provide precise insights on how P. aeruginosa adjusts the expression of its various iron-uptake pathways (phenotypic plasticity and switching) to match varying levels of iron and competition.
PXD014821	32025030	The structure of human thyroglobulin. 	The structure of human thyroglobulin	T3, T4, cryo-EM, thyroid hormone, thyroxine, tyrosine iodination	Thyroglobulin (TG) is the protein precursor of thyroid hormones, which are essential for growth, development and the control of metabolism in vertebrates(1,2). Hormone synthesis from TG occurs in the thyroid gland via the iodination and coupling of pairs of tyrosines, and is completed by TG proteolysis(3). Tyrosine proximity within TG is thought to enable the coupling reaction but hormonogenic tyrosines have not been clearly identified, and the lack of a three-dimensional structure of TG has prevented mechanistic understanding(4). Here we present the structure of full-length human thyroglobulin at a resolution of approximately 3.5 Aa, determined by cryo-electron microscopy. We identified all of the hormonogenic tyrosine pairs in the structure, and verified them using site-directed mutagenesis and in vitro hormone-production assays using human TG expressed in HEK293T cells. Our analysis revealed that the proximity, flexibility and solvent exposure of the tyrosines are the key characteristics of hormonogenic sites. We transferred the reaction sites from TG to an engineered tyrosine donor-acceptor pair in the unrelated bacterial maltose-binding protein (MBP), which yielded hormone production with an efficiency comparable to that of TG. Our study provides a framework to further understand the production and regulation of thyroid hormones.
PXD015699	32025035	SPEN integrates transcriptional and epigenetic control of X-inactivation. 	SPEN is a molecular integrator that bridges Xist with transcriptional and epigenetic control of X-chromosome inactivation	Epigenetic, SPEN, X-chromosome inactivation, XCI, Xist	Xist represents a paradigm for the function of long non-coding RNA in epigenetic regulation, although how it mediates X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) remains largely unexplained. Several proteins that bind to Xist RNA have recently been identified, including the transcriptional repressor SPEN(1-3), the loss of which has been associated with deficient XCI at multiple loci(2-6). Here we show in mice that SPEN is a key orchestrator of XCI in vivo and we elucidate its mechanism of action. We show that SPEN is essential for initiating gene silencing on the X chromosome in preimplantation mouse embryos and in embryonic stem cells. SPEN is dispensable for maintenance of XCI in neural progenitors, although it significantly decreases the expression of genes that escape XCI. We show that SPEN is immediately recruited to the X chromosome upon the upregulation of Xist, and is targeted to enhancers and promoters of active genes. SPEN rapidly disengages from chromatin upon gene silencing, suggesting that active transcription is required to tether SPEN to chromatin. We define the SPOC domain as a major effector of the gene-silencing function of SPEN, and show that tethering SPOC to Xist RNA is sufficient to mediate gene silencing. We identify the protein partners of SPOC, including NCoR/SMRT, the m(6)A RNA methylation machinery, the NuRD complex, RNA polymerase II and factors involved in the regulation of transcription initiation and elongation. We propose that SPEN acts as a molecular integrator for the initiation of XCI, bridging Xist RNA with the transcription machinery-as well as with nucleosome remodellers and histone deacetylases-at active enhancers and promoters.
PXD016369	32025036	Stress- and ubiquitylation-dependent phase separation of the proteasome. 	Purification of ubiquitylated proteins from HCT116 cells	ubiquitylated proteins	The proteasome is a major proteolytic machine that regulates cellular proteostasis through selective degradation of ubiquitylated proteins(1,2). A number of ubiquitin-related molecules have recently been found to be involved in the regulation of biomolecular condensates or membraneless organelles, which arise by liquid-liquid phase separation of specific biomolecules, including stress granules, nuclear speckles and autophagosomes(3-8), but it remains unclear whether the proteasome also participates in such regulation. Here we reveal that proteasome-containing nuclear foci form under acute hyperosmotic stress. These foci are transient structures that contain ubiquitylated proteins, p97 (also known as valosin-containing protein (VCP)) and multiple proteasome-interacting proteins, which collectively constitute a proteolytic centre. The major substrates for degradation by these foci were ribosomal proteins that failed to properly assemble. Notably, the proteasome foci exhibited properties of liquid droplets. RAD23B, a substrate-shuttling factor for the proteasome, and ubiquitylated proteins were necessary for formation of proteasome foci. In mechanistic terms, a liquid-liquid phase separation was triggered by multivalent interactions of two ubiquitin-associated domains of RAD23B and ubiquitin chains consisting of four or more ubiquitin molecules. Collectively, our results suggest that ubiquitin-chain-dependent phase separation induces the formation of a nuclear proteolytic compartment that promotes proteasomal degradation.
PXD013792	32025726	Trafficking of siRNA precursors by the dsRBD protein Blanks in Drosophila. 	Proteins that interact physically with Drosophila blanks	interaction with tagged blanks	RNA interference targets aberrant transcripts with cognate small interfering RNAs, which derive from double-stranded RNA precursors. Several functional screens have identified Drosophila blanks/lump (CG10630) as a facilitator of RNAi, yet its molecular function has remained unknown. The protein carries two dsRNA binding domains (dsRBD) and blanks mutant males have a spermatogenesis defect. We demonstrate that blanks selectively boosts RNAi triggered by dsRNA of nuclear origin. Blanks binds dsRNA via its second dsRBD in vitro, shuttles between nucleus and cytoplasm and the abundance of siRNAs arising at many sites of convergent transcription is reduced in blanks mutants. Since features of nascent RNAs - such as introns and transcription beyond the polyA site - contribute to the small RNA pool, we propose that Blanks binds dsRNA formed by cognate nascent RNAs in the nucleus and fosters its export to the cytoplasm for dicing. We refer to the resulting small RNAs as blanks exported siRNAs (bepsiRNAs). While bepsiRNAs were fully dependent on RNA binding to the second dsRBD of blanks in transgenic flies, male fertility was not. This is consistent with a previous report that linked fertility to the first dsRBD of Blanks. The role of blanks in spermatogenesis appears thus unrelated to its role in dsRNA export.
PXD016011	32027064	A Pronucleotide Probe for Live-Cell Imaging of Protein AMPylation. 	Pronucleotide probe for in vivo imaging of protein AMPylation.	AMPylation, chemical proteomics	Conjugation of proteins to AMP (AMPylation) is a prevalent post-translational modification (PTM) in human cells, involved in the regulation of unfolded protein response and neural development. Here we present a tailored pronucleotide probe suitable for in situ imaging and chemical proteomics profiling of AMPylated proteins. Using straightforward strain-promoted azide-alkyne click chemistry, the probe provides stable fluorescence labelling in living cells.
PXD012840	32027433	Impact of oxidative stress on the function, abundance, and turnover of the Arabidopsis 80S cytosolic ribosome. 	Turnover under stress -  Impact of oxidative stress on the function, abundance and turnover of the Arabidopsis 80S cytosolic ribosome	15N labelling, Ribosome isolation, protein synthesis / degradation	Abiotic stress in plants causes accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) leading to the need for new protein synthesis to defend against ROS and to replace existing proteins that are damaged by oxidation. Functional plant ribosomes are critical for these activities, however we know little about the impact of oxidative stress on plant ribosome abundance, turnover, and function. Using Arabidopsis cell culture as a model system, we induced oxidative stress using 1 microm of H2 O2 or 5 microm menadione to more than halve cell growth rate and limit total protein content. We show that ribosome content on a total cell protein basis decreased in oxidatively stressed cells. However, overall protein synthesis rates on a ribosome abundance basis showed the resident ribosomes retained their function in oxidatively stressed cells. (15) N progressive labelling was used to calculate the rate of ribosome synthesis and degradation to track the fate of 62 r-proteins. The degradation rates and the synthesis rates of most r-proteins slowed following oxidative stress leading to an ageing population of ribosomes in stressed cells. However, there were exceptions to this trend; r-protein RPS14C doubled its degradation rate in both oxidative treatments. Overall, we show that ribosome abundance decreases and their age increases with oxidative stress in line with loss of cell growth rate and total cellular protein amount, but ribosome function of the ageing ribosomes appeared to be maintained concomittently with differences in the turnover rate and abundance of specific ribosomal proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012840.
PXD016503	32028038	Interrogating the higher order structures of snake venom proteins using an integrated mass spectrometric approach. 	Interrogating the higher order structures of snake venom proteins	Snake venom	Snake venoms contain complex mixtures of proteins vital for the survival of venomous snakes. Aligned with their diverse pharmacological activities, the protein compositions of snake venoms are highly variable, and efforts to characterise the primary structures of such proteins are ongoing. Additionally, a significant knowledge gap exists in terms of the higher-order protein structures which modulate venom potency, posing a challenge for successful therapeutic applications. Here we use a multifaceted mass spectrometry approach to characterise proteins from venoms of Collett's snake Pseudechis colletti and the puff adder Bitis arietans. Following chromatographic fractionation and bottom-up proteomics analysis, native mass spectrometry identified, among other components, a non-covalent l-amino acid oxidase dimer in the P. colletti venom and a C-type lectin tetramer in the B. arietans venom. Furthermore, a covalently-linked phospholipase A2 (PLA2) dimer was identified in P. colletti venom, from which the PLA2 species were shown to adopt compact geometries using ion mobility measurements. Interestingly, we show that the dimeric PLA2 possesses greater bioactivity than the monomeric PLA2s. This work contributes to ongoing efforts cataloguing components of snake venoms, and notably, emphasises the importance of understanding higher-order venom protein interactions and the utility of a combined mass spectrometric approach for this task. SIGNIFICANCE: The protein constituents of snake venoms represent a sophisticated cocktail of biologically active molecules ideally suited for further exploration in drug design and development. Despite ongoing efforts to characterise the diverse protein components of such venoms there is still much work required in this area, particularly in moving from simply describing the protein primary sequence to providing an understanding of quaternary structure. The combined proteomic and native mass spectrometry workflow utilised here gives new insights into higher order protein structures in selected snake venoms, and can underpin further investigation into the protein interactions which govern snake venom specificity and potency.
PXD015279	32029478	TNF receptor-associated factor 6 interacts with ALS-linked misfolded superoxide dismutase 1 and promotes aggregation. 	Misfolded SOD1 binds the ubiquitin ligase TRAF6	TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), aggregation, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), mitochondria, protein misfolding, superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), ubiquitin	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal disease, characterized by the selective loss of motor neurons leading to paralysis. Mutations in the gene encoding superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) are the second most common cause of familial ALS, and considerable evidence suggests that these mutations result in an increase in toxicity due to protein misfolding. We previously demonstrated in the SOD1(G93A) rat model that misfolded SOD1 exists as distinct conformers and forms deposits on mitochondrial subpopulations. Here, using SOD1(G93A) rats and conformation-restricted antibodies specific for misfolded SOD1 (B8H10 and AMF7-63), we identified the interactomes of the mitochondrial pools of misfolded SOD1. This strategy identified binding proteins that uniquely interacted with either AMF7-63 or B8H10-reactive SOD1 conformers as well as a high proportion of interactors common to both conformers. Of this latter set, we identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) as a SOD1 interactor, and we determined that exposure of the SOD1 functional loops facilitates this interaction. Of note, this conformational change was not universally fulfilled by all SOD1 variants and differentiated TRAF6 interacting from TRAF6 noninteracting SOD1 variants. Functionally, TRAF6 stimulated polyubiquitination and aggregation of the interacting SOD1 variants. TRAF6 E3 ubiquitin ligase activity was required for the former but was dispensable for the latter, indicating that TRAF6-mediated polyubiquitination and aggregation of the SOD1 variants are independent events. We propose that the interaction between misfolded SOD1 and TRAF6 may be relevant to the etiology of ALS.
PXD014337	32029734	A synthetic peptide library for benchmarking crosslinking-mass spectrometry search engines for proteins and protein complexes. 	A synthetic crosslinked peptide library for benchmarking crosslinking mass spectrometry search engines	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, crosslinking mass spectrometry peptide library	Crosslinking-mass spectrometry (XL-MS) serves to identify interaction sites between proteins. Numerous search engines for crosslink identification exist, but lack of ground truth samples containing known crosslinks has precluded their systematic validation. Here we report on XL-MS data arising from measuring synthetic peptide libraries that provide the unique benefit of knowing which identified crosslinks are true and which are false. The data are analysed with the most frequently used search engines and the results filtered to an estimated false discovery rate of 5%. We find that the actual false crosslink identification rates range from 2.4 to 32%, depending on the analysis strategy employed. Furthermore, the use of MS-cleavable crosslinkers does not reduce the false discovery rate compared to non-cleavable crosslinkers. We anticipate that the datasets acquired during this research will further drive optimisation and development of XL-MS search engines, thereby advancing our understanding of vital biological interactions.
PXD014309	32031398	Comparative Analysis of Mass-Spectrometry-Based Proteomic Methods for Protein Target Discovery Using a One-Pot Approach. 	One-pot analysis on cyclosporine A binding	CPP, SPROX, STEPP, TPP, one-pot	Recently, several mass-spectrometry- and protein-denaturation-based proteomic methods have been developed to facilitate protein target discovery efforts in drug mode-of-action studies. These methods, which include the stability of proteins from rates of oxidation (SPROX), pulse proteolysis (PP), chemical denaturation and protein precipitation (CPP), and thermal proteome profiling (TPP) techniques, have been used in an increasing number of applications in recent years. However, while the advantages and disadvantages to using these different techniques have been reviewed, the analytical characteristics of these methods have not been directly compared. Reported here is such a direct comparison using the well-studied immunosuppressive drug, cyclosporine A (CsA), and the proteins in a yeast cell lysate. Also described is a one-pot strategy that can be utilized with each technique to streamline data acquisition and analysis. We find that there are benefits to utilizing all four strategies for protein target discovery including increased proteomic coverage and reduced false positive rates that approach 0%. Moreover, the one-pot strategy described here makes such an experiment feasible, because of the 10-fold reduction in reagent costs and instrument time it affords.
PXD017186	32031715	Evaluation and minimization of nonspecific tryptic cleavages in proteomic sample preparation. 	Evaluation and minimization of nonspecific tryptic cleavages in proteomic sample preparation	artificial modification, miscleavage, nonspecific trypsin cleavage, trypsin digestion	High specificity of trypsin is a prerequisite for accurate identification and quantification of proteins in shotgun proteomics. It is important to minimize nonspecific enzymatic cleavages during proteomic sample preparation. METHODS: In this study, protein extraction and trypsin digestion conditions were extensively evaluated using the less-complex Escherichia coli lysates to improve the sensitivity of detecting low-abundance nonspecific peptides by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Trypsin digestion buffers and digestion times were proved to have a significant effect on nonspecific cleavages. The triethylammonium bicarbonate buffer induces significantly lower nonspecific cleavages than the other two buffers, but a freshly prepared urea solution does not induce more than sodium dodecyl sulfate. Because prolonged trypsin digestion resulted in a considerable number of nonspecific cleavages, an optimized 2-h protocol was developed with 45.2% less semispecific tryptic peptides but 18.5% more unmodified peptides identified than the commonly used 16-h protocol. CONCLUSIONS: The significant decrease in nonspecific cleavages and artificial modifications improves the accuracy of protein quantification and the identification of low-abundance proteins, and it is especially useful for studying protein posttranslational modifications. For trypsin digestion, the proposed 2-h protocol can potentially be a replacement for the traditional 16-h protocol.
PXD015786	32032393	RNA decay during gammaherpesvirus infection reduces RNA polymerase II occupancy of host promoters but spares viral promoters. 	Herpesvirus infection reduces Pol II occupancy of host promoters but spares viral promoters	Herpesvirus, Infection, MHV68, RNA Pol II, TMT	In mammalian cells, widespread acceleration of cytoplasmic mRNA degradation is linked to impaired RNA polymerase II (Pol II) transcription. This mRNA decay-induced transcriptional repression occurs during infection with gammaherpesviruses including Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) and murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV68), which encode an mRNA endonuclease that initiates widespread RNA decay. Here, we show that MHV68-induced mRNA decay leads to a genome-wide reduction of Pol II occupancy at mammalian promoters. This reduced Pol II occupancy is accompanied by down-regulation of multiple Pol II subunits and TFIIB in the nucleus of infected cells, as revealed by mass spectrometry-based global measurements of protein abundance. Viral genes, despite the fact that they require Pol II for transcription, escape transcriptional repression. Protection is not governed by viral promoter sequences; instead, location on the viral genome is both necessary and sufficient to escape the transcriptional repression effects of mRNA decay. We propose a model in which the ability to escape from transcriptional repression is linked to the localization of viral DNA within replication compartments, providing a means for these viruses to counteract decay-induced transcript loss.
PXD009562	32032466	Phosphorylation Time-Course Study of the Response during Adenovirus Type 2 Infection. 	Time-course phosphoproteome response during adenovirus type 2 infection	Ad2, SILAC, human adenovirus, phosphoproteomics	PTMs such as phosphorylations are usually involved in signal transduction pathways. To investigate the temporal dynamics of phosphoproteome changes upon viral infection, a model system of IMR-90 cells infected with human adenovirus type 2 (Ad2) is used in a time-course quantitative analysis combining titanium dioxide (TiO2 ) particle enrichment and SILAC-MS. Quantitative data from 1552 phosphorylated sites clustered the highly altered phosphorylated sites to the signaling by rho family GTPases, the actin cytoskeleton signaling, and the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A signaling pathways. Their activation is especially pronounced at early time post-infection. Changes of several phosphorylated sites involved in the glycolysis pathway, related to the activation of the Warburg effect, point at virus-induced energy production. For Ad2 proteins, 32 novel phosphorylation sites are identified and as many as 52 phosphorylated sites on 17 different Ad2 proteins are quantified, most of them at late time post-infection. Kinase predictions highlighted activation of PKA, CDK1/2, MAPK, and CKII. Overlaps of kinase motif sequences for viral and human proteins are observed, stressing the importance of phosphorylation during Ad2 infection.
PXD016862	32032505	Posttranslational Modifications Mediate the Structural Diversity of Tauopathy Strains. 	Posttranslational modifications mediate the structural diversity of tauopathy strains	CBD, TAU	Tau aggregation into insoluble filaments is the defining pathological hallmark of tauopathies. However, it is not known what controls the formation and templated seeding of strain-specific structures associated with individual tauopathies. Here, we use cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to determine the structures of tau filaments from corticobasal degeneration (CBD) human brain tissue. Cryo-EM and mass spectrometry of tau filaments from CBD reveal that this conformer is heavily decorated with posttranslational modifications (PTMs), enabling us to map PTMs directly onto the structures. By comparing the structures and PTMs of tau filaments from CBD and Alzheimer's disease, it is found that ubiquitination of tau can mediate inter-protofilament interfaces. We propose a structure-based model in which cross-talk between PTMs influences tau filament structure, contributing to the structural diversity of tauopathy strains. Our approach establishes a framework for further elucidating the relationship between the structures of polymorphic fibrils, including their PTMs, and neurodegenerative disease.
PXD016092	32032508	CenH3-Independent Kinetochore Assembly in Lepidoptera Requires CCAN, Including CENP-T. 	Spodoptera frugiperda kinetochore co-immunoprecipitations	Bombix, Frugiperda, Spodoptera, kinetochore	Accurate chromosome segregation requires assembly of the multiprotein kinetochore complex at centromeres. In most eukaryotes, kinetochore assembly is primed by the histone H3 variant CenH3 (also called CENP-A), which physically interacts with components of the inner kinetochore constitutive centromere-associated network (CCAN). Unexpectedly, regarding its critical function, previous work identified that select eukaryotic lineages, including several insects, have lost CenH3 while having retained homologs of the CCAN. These findings imply alternative CCAN assembly pathways in these organisms that function in CenH3-independent manners. Here we study the composition and assembly of CenH3-deficient kinetochores of Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths). We show that lepidopteran kinetochores consist of previously identified CCAN homologs as well as additional components, including a divergent CENP-T homolog, that are required for accurate mitotic progression. Our study focuses on CENP-T, which we found to be sufficient to recruit the Mis12 and Ndc80 outer kinetochore complexes. In addition, CRISPR-mediated gene editing in Bombyx mori establishes an essential function of CENP-T in vivo. Finally, the retention of CENP-T and additional CCAN homologs in other independently derived CenH3-deficient insects indicates a conserved mechanism of kinetochore assembly between these lineages. Our study provides the first functional insights into CCAN-based kinetochore assembly pathways that function independently of CenH3, contributing to the emerging picture of an unexpected plasticity to build a kinetochore.
PXD016632	32032526	Defining the Adult Neural Stem Cell Niche Proteome Identifies Key Regulators of Adult Neurogenesis. 	Comprehensive proteome of the adult neural stem cell niche identifies key regulators of adult neurogenesis	Brain, Extracellular matrix, Neurogenesis, Stem cells	The mammalian brain contains few niches for neural stem cells (NSCs) capable of generating new neurons, whereas other regions are primarily gliogenic. Here we leverage the spatial separation of the sub-ependymal zone NSC niche and the olfactory bulb, the region to which newly generated neurons from the sub-ependymal zone migrate and integrate, and present a comprehensive proteomic characterization of these regions in comparison to the cerebral cortex, which is not conducive to neurogenesis and integration of new neurons. We find differing compositions of regulatory extracellular matrix (ECM) components in the neurogenic niche. We further show that quiescent NSCs are the main source of their local ECM, including the multi-functional enzyme transglutaminase 2, which we show is crucial for neurogenesis. Atomic force microscopy corroborated indications from the proteomic analyses that neurogenic niches are significantly stiffer than non-neurogenic parenchyma. Together these findings provide a powerful resource for unraveling unique compositions of neurogenic niches.
PXD014515	32033488	Blood Contamination in CSF and Its Impact on Quantitative Analysis of Alpha-Synuclein. 	Blood contamination in CSF and its impact on quantitative analysis of alpha-synuclein	ELISA, alpha-synuclein, blood contamination, bottom-up mass spectrometry, cerebrospinal fluid, quantification, urine strip	Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is important for diagnosis of neurological diseases. Especially for neurodegenerative diseases, abnormal protein abundance in CSF is an important biomarker. However, the quality of CSF is a key factor for the analytic outcome. Any external contamination has tremendous impact on the analysis and the reliability of the results. In this study, we evaluated the effect of blood contamination in CSF with respect to protein biomarker identification. We compared three distinct measures: Combur10-Test((R)) strips, a specific hemoglobin ELISA, and bottom-up mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics for the determination of the general blood contamination level. In parallel, we studied the impact of blood contamination on the detectability of alpha-synuclein (aSyn), a highly abundant protein in blood/erythrocytes and a potential biomarker for Parkinson's disease. Comparable results were achieved, with all three approaches enabling detection of blood levels in CSF down to 0.001%. We found higher aSyn levels with increasing blood contamination, highlighting the difficulty of authentic quantification of this protein in CSF. Based on our results, we identified other markers for blood contamination beyond hemoglobin and defined a grading system for blood levels in CSF samples, including a lower limit of tolerable blood contamination for MS-based biomarker studies.
PXD013337	32033593	Gastric bypass surgery in a rat model alters the community structure and functional composition of the intestinal microbiota independently of weight loss. 	Intestinal microbiota after RYGB	Caecum, Colon, Ileum, Microbiota, metabolomics, metaproteomics	BACKGROUND: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery is a last-resort treatment to induce substantial and sustained weight loss in cases of severe obesity. This anatomical rearrangement affects the intestinal microbiota, but so far, little information is available on how it interferes with microbial functionality and microbial-host interactions independently of weight loss. METHODS: A rat model was employed where the RYGB-surgery cohort is compared to sham-operated controls which were kept at a matched body weight by food restriction. We investigated the microbial taxonomy and functional activity using 16S rRNA amplicon gene sequencing, metaproteomics, and metabolomics on samples collected from theileum, the cecum, and the colon, and separately analysed the lumen and mucus-associated microbiota. RESULTS: Altered gut architecture in RYGB increased the relative occurrence of Actinobacteria, especially Bifidobacteriaceae and Proteobacteria, while in general, Firmicutes were decreased although Streptococcaceae and Clostridium perfringens were observed at relative higher abundances independent of weight loss. A decrease of conjugated and secondary bile acids was observed in the RYGB-gut lumen. The arginine biosynthesis pathway in the microbiota was altered, as indicated by the changes in the abundance of upstream metabolites and enzymes, resulting in lower levels of arginine and higher levels of aspartate in the colon after RYGB. CONCLUSION: The anatomical rearrangement in RYGB affects microbiota composition and functionality as well as changes in amino acid and bile acid metabolism independently of weight loss. The shift in the taxonomic structure of the microbiota after RYGB may be mediated by the resulting change in the composition of the bile acid pool in the gut and by changes in the composition of nutrients in the gut. Video abstract.
PXD016754	32033953	Metabolic Exchange with Non-Alkane-Consuming Pseudomonas stutzeri SLG510A3-8 Improves n-Alkane Biodegradation by the Alkane Degrader Dietzia sp. Strain DQ12-45-1b. 	Label-free proteomics of two bacterial strains grown on hydrocarbon	microbial interaction	Biodegradation of alkanes by microbial communities is ubiquitous in nature. Interestingly, the microbial communities with high hydrocarbon-degrading performances are sometimes composed of not only hydrocarbon degraders but also nonconsumers, but the synergistic mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we found that two bacterial strains isolated from Chinese oil fields, Dietzia sp. strain DQ12-45-1b and Pseudomonas stutzeri SLG510A3-8, had a synergistic effect on hexadecane (C16 compound) biodegradation, even though P. stutzeri could not utilize C16 individually. To gain a better understanding of the roles of the alkane nonconsumer P. stutzeri in the C16-degrading consortium, we reconstructed a two-species stoichiometric metabolic model, iBH1908, and integrated in silico prediction with the following in vitro validation, a comparative proteomics analysis, and extracellular metabolomic detection. Metabolic interactions between P. stutzeri and Dietzia sp. were successfully revealed to have importance in efficient C16 degradation. In the process, P. stutzeri survived on C16 metabolic intermediates from Dietzia sp., including hexadecanoate, 3-hydroxybutanoate, and alpha-ketoglutarate. In return, P. stutzeri reorganized its metabolic flux distribution to fed back acetate and glutamate to Dietzia sp. to enhance its C16 degradation efficiency by improving Dietzia cell accumulation and by regulating the expression of Dietzia succinate dehydrogenase. By using the synergistic microbial consortium of Dietzia sp. and P. stutzeri with the addition of the in silico-predicted key exchanged metabolites, diesel oil was effectively disposed of in 15 days with a removal fraction of 85.54% +/- 6.42%, leaving small amounts of C15 to C20 isomers. Our finding provides a novel microbial assembling mode for efficient bioremediation or chemical production in the future.IMPORTANCE Many natural and synthetic microbial communities are composed of not only species whose biological properties are consistent with their corresponding communities but also ones whose chemophysical characteristics do not directly contribute to the performance of their communities. Even though the latter species are often essential to the microbial communities, their roles are unclear. Here, by investigation of an artificial two-member microbial consortium in n-alkane biodegradation, we showed that the microbial member without the n-alkane-degrading capability had a cross-feeding interaction with and metabolic regulation to the leading member for the synergistic n-alkane biodegradation. Our study improves the current understanding of microbial interactions. Because "assistant" microbes showed importance in communities in addition to the functional microbes, our findings also suggest a useful "assistant-microbe" principle in the design of microbial communities for either bioremediation or chemical production.
PXD013525	32034035	CRK2 and C-terminal Phosphorylation of NADPH Oxidase RBOHD Regulate Reactive Oxygen Species Production in Arabidopsis. 	CRK2-mediated control of ROS production by phosphorylation of the RBOHD C-terminus in Arabidopsis	Phosphoproteomics, Reactive-oxygen species, receptor-like protein kinases	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are important messengers in eukaryotic organisms, and their production is tightly controlled. Active extracellular ROS production by NADPH oxidases in plants is triggered by receptor-like protein kinase-dependent signaling networks. Here, we show that CYSTEINE-RICH RLK2 (CRK2) kinase activity is required for plant growth and CRK2 exists in a preformed complex with the NADPH oxidase RESPIRATORY BURST OXIDASE HOMOLOG D (RBOHD) in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Functional CRK2 is required for the full elicitor-induced ROS burst, and consequently the crk2 mutant is impaired in defense against the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000. Our work demonstrates that CRK2 regulates plant innate immunity. We identified in vitro CRK2-dependent phosphorylation sites in the C-terminal region of RBOHD. Phosphorylation of S703 RBOHD is enhanced upon flg22 treatment, and substitution of S703 with Ala reduced ROS production in Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that phospho-sites in the C-terminal region of RBOHD are conserved throughout the plant lineage and between animals and plants. We propose that regulation of NADPH oxidase activity by phosphorylation of the C-terminal region might be an ancient mechanism and that CRK2 is an important element in regulating microbe-associated molecular pattern-triggered ROS production.
PXD014525	32034161	Rapid and site-specific deep phosphoproteome profiling by data-independent acquisition without the need for spectral libraries. 	Rapid and site-specific deep phosphoproteome profiling by data-independent acquisition (DIA) without the need for spectral libraries	DIA, Phosphorylation, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Q Exactive HF-X, Rapid, Sensitive, benchmarking, immunopeptidomics, machine learning	Quantitative phosphoproteomics has transformed investigations of cell signaling, but it remains challenging to scale the technology for high-throughput analyses. Here we report a rapid and reproducible approach to analyze hundreds of phosphoproteomes using data-independent acquisition (DIA) with an accurate site localization score incorporated into Spectronaut. DIA-based phosphoproteomics achieves an order of magnitude broader dynamic range, higher reproducibility of identification, and improved sensitivity and accuracy of quantification compared to state-of-the-art data-dependent acquisition (DDA)-based phosphoproteomics. Notably, direct DIA without the need of spectral libraries performs close to analyses using project-specific libraries, quantifying > 20,000 phosphopeptides in 15 min single-shot LC-MS analysis per condition. Adaptation of a 3D multiple regression model-based algorithm enables global determination of phosphorylation site stoichiometry in DIA. Scalability of the DIA approach is demonstrated by systematically analyzing the effects of thirty kinase inhibitors in context of epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling showing that specific protein kinases mediate EGF-dependent phospho-regulation.
PXD017273	32035230	Assessment of separation methods for extracellular vesicles from human and mouse brain tissues and human cerebrospinal fluids. 	Human and mouse brain, and human cerebrospinal fluid extracellular vesicles LC-MSMS	TMT label, brain tissue, cerebrospinal fluid, extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesicle (EV) is a unified terminology of membrane-enclosed vesicular species ubiquitously secreted by almost every cell type and present in all body fluids. They carry a cargo of lipids, metabolites, nucleic acids and proteins for their clearance from cells as well as for cell-to-cell communications. The exact composition of EVs and their specific functions are not well understood due to the underdevelopment of the separation protocols, especially those from the central nervous system including animal and human brain tissues as well as cerebrospinal fluids, and the low yield of proteins in the separated EVs. To understand their exact molecular composition and their functional roles, development of the reliable protocols for EV separation is necessary. Here we report the methods for EV separation from human and mouse unfixed frozen brain tissues by a sucrose step gradient ultracentrifugation method, and from human cerebrospinal fluids by an affinity capture method. The separated EVs were assessed for morphological, biophysical and proteomic properties of separated EVs by nanoparticle tracking analysis, transmission electron microscopy, and labeled and label-free mass spectrometry for protein profiling with step-by-step protocols for each assessment.
PXD016391	32035904	Structural Basis for Lipid Binding and Function by an Evolutionarily Conserved Protein, Serum Amyloid A. 	Structural basis for lipid binding and function by an evolutionally conserved protein, Serum Amyloid A	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, inflammation and immunity, intrinsically disordered protein, lipoprotein nanoparticle, molecular dynamics simulations, beta-hairpin misfolding intermediate	Serum amyloid A (SAA) is a plasma protein that transports lipids during inflammation. To explore SAA solution conformations and lipid-binding mechanism, we used hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, lipoprotein reconstitution, amino acid sequence analysis, and molecular dynamics simulations. Solution conformations of lipid-bound and lipid-free mSAA1 at pH~7.4 agreed in details with the crystal structures but also showed important differences. The results revealed that amphipathic alpha-helices h1 and h3 comprise a lipid-binding site that is partially pre-formed in solution, is stabilized upon binding lipids, and shows lipid-induced folding of h3. This site sequesters apolar ligands via a concave hydrophobic surface in SAA oligomers. The largely disordered/dynamic C-terminal region is conjectured to mediate the promiscuous binding of other ligands. The h1-h2 linker region is predicted to form an unexpected beta-hairpin that may represent an early amyloidogenic intermediate. The results help establish structural underpinnings for understanding SAA interactions with its key functional ligands, its evolutional conservation, and its transition to amyloid.
PXD014801	32037832	Peptidomics Approaches for the Identification of Bioactive Molecules from Diaphorina citri. 	Peptidomics of the Asian Citrus Psyllid	neuropeptides, peptidome, psyllid	Huanglongbing (HLB), a deadly citrus disease, is primarily associated with Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas) and spread by the hemipteran insect Diaphorina citri. Control strategies to combat HLB are urgently needed. In this work, we developed and compared workflows for the extraction of the D. citri peptidome, a dynamic set of polypeptides produced by proteolysis and other cellular processes. High-resolution mass spectrometry revealed bias among methods reflecting the physiochemical properties of the peptides: while TCA/acetone-based methods resulted in enrichment of C-terminally amidated peptides, a modification characteristic of bioactive peptides, larger peptides were overrepresented in the aqueous phase of chloroform/methanol extracts, possibly indicative of reduced co-analytical degradation during sample preparation. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was used to validate the structure and upregulation of peptides derived from hemocyanin, a D. citri immune system protein, in insects reared on healthy and CLas-infected trees. Mining of the data sets also revealed 122 candidate neuropeptides, including PK/PBAN family neuropeptides and kinins, biostable analogs of which have known insecticidal properties. Taken together, this information yields new, in-depth insights into peptidomics methodology. Additionally, the putative neuropeptides identified may lead to psyllid mortality if applied to or expressed in citrus, consequently blocking the spread of HLB disease in citrus groves.
PXD015627	32038312	Identification and Comparative Analysis of Venom Proteins in a Pupal Ectoparasitoid, Pachycrepoideus vindemmiae. 	Venom proteome of Pachycrepoideus vindemmiae	parasitoid, venom proteins	Parasitoid wasps inject venom containing complex bioactive compounds to regulate the immune response and development of host arthropods and sometime paralyze host arthropods. Although extensive studies have been conducted on the identification of venom proteins in larval parasitoids, relatively few studies have examined the pupal parasitoids. In our current study, a combination of transcriptomic and proteomic methods was used to identify 64 putative venom proteins from Pachycrepoideus vindemmiae, an ectoparasitoid of Drosophila. Expression analysis revealed that 20 tested venom proteins have 419-fold higher mean expression in the venom apparatus than in other wasp tissues, indicating their specialization to venom. Comparisons of venom proteins from P. vindemmiae and other five species spanning three parasitoid families detected a core set of "ancient" orthologs in Pteromalidae. Thirty-five venom proteins of P. vindemmiae were assigned to the orthologous groups by reciprocal best matches with venoms of other pteromalids, while the remaining 29 were not. Of the 35 categories, twenty-seven have orthologous relationships with Nasonia vitripennis venom proteins and 25 with venoms of Pteromalus puparum. More distant relationships detected that five and two venom proteins of P. vindemmiae are orthologous with venoms of two Figitidae parasitoids and a Braconidae representative, respectively. Moreover, twenty-two venoms unique to P. vindemmiae were also detected, indicating considerable interspecific variation of venom proteins in parasitoids. Phylogenetic reconstruction based on a set of single-copy genes clustered P. vindemmiae with P. puparum, N. vitripennis, and other members of the family Pteromalidae. These findings provide strong evidence that P. vindemmiae venom proteins are well positioned for future functional and evolutionary studies.
PXD015322	32038513	Cyclic AMP-CRP Modulates the Cell Morphology of Klebsiella pneumoniae in High-Glucose Environment. 	Proteome profile of Klebsiella pneumoniae	CRP, morphology	Bacteria can modify their morphology in response to environmental stimuli for survival or host defense evasion. The rich glucose in vivo or in the Luria-Bertani (LB) medium shortened the cell length of Klebsiella pneumoniae. The environmental glucose decreased the levels of cyclic AMP (cAMP) and the transcription of crp, which declined the cAMP-cAMP receptor protein (cAMP-CRP) activity. The cell length of crp deletion mutant was significantly shorter than that of the wild type (0.981 +/- 0.057 mum vs. 2.415 +/- 0.075 mum, P < 0.001). These results indicated that the high environmental glucose alters the bacterial morphology to a round form through regulating the activity of cAMP-CRP complex. Comparative proteomics analysis showed increased expression of 10 proteins involved in cell division or cell wall biosynthesis in the crp deletion strain. Five of them (ompA, tolB, ybgC, ftsI, and rcsF) were selected to verify their expression in the high-glucose environment, and overexpression of tolB or rcsF shortened the bacterial length similar to that of the crp deletion strain. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay indicated that CRP directly negatively regulates the transcription of tolB and rcsF by binding to the promoter regions. This study first proved the role and partial regulation mechanism of CRP in altering cell morphology during infection and provided a theoretical basis for elucidating the mechanism in diabetes mellitus susceptible to K. pneumoniae.
PXD014027	32038602	Role of the Dihydrodipicolinate Synthase DapA1 on Iron Homeostasis During Cyanide Assimilation by the Alkaliphilic Bacterium Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344. 	Role of the DapA protein in iron homeostasis and the metabolism of cyanide in jewelery wastewaters	DapA, Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344, cyanide metabolism, iron homeostasis	Cyanide is a toxic compound widely used in mining and jewelry industries, as well as in the synthesis of many different chemicals. Cyanide toxicity derives from its high affinity for metals, which causes inhibition of relevant metalloenzymes. However, some cyanide-degrading microorganisms like the alkaliphilic bacterium Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344 may detoxify hazardous industrial wastewaters that contain elevated cyanide and metal concentrations. Considering that iron availability is strongly reduced in the presence of cyanide, mechanisms for iron homeostasis should be required for cyanide biodegradation. Previous omic studies revealed that in the presence of a cyanide-containing jewelry residue the strain CECT5344 overproduced the dihydrodipicolinate synthase DapA1, a protein involved in lysine metabolism that also participates in the synthesis of dipicolinates, which are excellent metal chelators. In this work, a dapA1 (-) mutant of P. pseudoalcaligenes CECT5344 has been generated and characterized. This mutant showed reduced growth and cyanide consumption in media with the cyanide-containing wastewater. Intracellular levels of metals like iron, copper and zinc were increased in the dapA1 (-) mutant, especially in cells grown with the jewelry residue. In addition, a differential quantitative proteomic analysis by LC-MS/MS was carried out between the wild-type and the dapA1 (-) mutant strains in media with jewelry residue. The mutation in the dapA1 gene altered the expression of several proteins related to urea cycle and metabolism of arginine and other amino acids. Additionally, the dapA1 (-) mutant showed increased levels of the global nitrogen regulator PII and the glutamine synthetase. This proteomic study has also highlighted that the DapA1 protein is relevant for cyanide resistance, oxidative stress and iron homeostasis response, which is mediated by the ferric uptake regulator Fur. DapA1 is required to produce dipicolinates that could act as iron chelators, conferring protection against oxidative stress and allowing the regeneration of Fe-S centers to reactivate cyanide-damaged metalloproteins.
PXD016305	32038647	ADAP Promotes Degranulation and Migration of NK Cells Primed During in vivo Listeria monocytogenes Infection in Mice. 	ADAP promotes effector cytokine release, degranulation and migration 1  of NK cells primed during in vivo Listeria monocytogenes infection in 2  mice	ADAP, Listeria 28  monocytogenes, adapter protein, cytotoxicity, effector cytokines, in vivo infection, migration, natural killer cells	The adhesion and degranulation-promoting adaptor protein (ADAP) serves as a multifunctional scaffold and is involved in the formation of immune signaling complexes. To date only limited and moreover conflicting data exist regarding the role of ADAP in NK cells. To extend existing knowledge we investigated ADAP-dependency of NK cells in the context of in vivo infection with the intracellular pathogen Listeria monocytogenes (Lm). Ex vivo analysis of infection-primed NK cells revealed impaired cytotoxic capacity in NK cells lacking ADAP as indicated by reduced CD107a surface expression and inefficient perforin production. However, ADAP-deficiency had no global effect on NK cell morphology or intracellular distribution of CD107a-containing vesicles. Proteomic definition of ADAPko and wild type NK cells did not uncover obvious differences in protein composition during the steady state and moreover, similar early response patterns were induced in NK cells upon infection independent of the genotype. In line with protein network analyses that suggested an altered migration phenotype in naive ADAPko NK cells, in vitro migration assays uncovered significantly reduced migration of both naive as well as infection-primed ADAPko NK cells compared to wild type NK cells. Notably, this migration defect was associated with a significantly reduced expression of the integrin CD11a on the surface of splenic ADAP-deficient NK cells 1 day post-Lm infection. We propose that ADAP-dependent alterations in integrin expression might account at least in part for the fact that during in vivo infection significantly lower numbers of ADAPko NK cells accumulate in the spleen i.e., the site of infection. In conclusion, we show here that during systemic Lm infection in mice ADAP is essential for efficient cytotoxic capacity and migration of NK cells.
PXD016883	32039234	Drought Stress Causes Specific Changes to the Spliceosome and Stress Granule Components. 	RNA binding proteins modification by drought stress	RNA binding proteins, abiotic stress, drought stress, spliceosome	The spliceosome processes RNAs from a pre-RNA state to a mature mRNA thereby influencing RNA availability for translation, localization, and turnover. It consists of complex structures containing RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) essential for post-transcriptional gene expression control. Here we investigate the dynamic modifications of spliceosomal RBPs under stress and in particular drought stress. We do so by mRNA interactome capture in Arabidopsis thaliana using label free quantitation. This approach identified 44 proteins associated with the spliceosome and further 32 proteins associated with stress granules. We noted a high enrichment in the motifs RDRR and RSRSRS that are characteristic of RNA interacting proteins. Identification of splicing factors reflect direct and/or indirect stress induced splicing events that have a direct effect on transcriptome and proteome changes under stress. Furthermore, detection of stress granule components is consistent with transcriptional arrest. Identification of drought induced stress granule components is critical in determining common abiotic stress-induced foci that can have biotechnological applications. This study may therefore open ways to modify plant stress responses at a systems level through the modification of key spliceosome components.
PXD016413	32039420	Degrasyn exhibits antibiotic activity against multi-resistant Staphylococcus aureus by modifying several essential cysteines. 	Degrasyn exhibits antibiotic activity against multi-resistant Staphylococcus aureus by modifying several essential cysteines	Antibioitcs, Chemoproteomics, S. aureus, isoDTB-ABPP	Degrasyn inhibits deubiquitination enzymes and has anti-cancer activity. We here show that it also exhibits antimicrobial activity against multi-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Structure activity relationship studies demonstrate an important role of the electrophilic alpha-cyanoacrylamide moiety as a Michael acceptor. A suite of chemical proteomic techniques unraveled binding of this moiety to various cysteine residues of essential proteins in a reversibly covalent manner.
PXD009351	32040328	Quantitative Analysis of Target Peptides Related to Resistance Against Ascochyta Blight (Peyronellaea pinodes) in Pea. 	A targeted proteomics strategy to identify markers of resistance in pea	Ascochyta blight, markers, pea, resistance, targeted proteomics	Peyronellaea pinodes causes Ascochyta blight, one of the major diseases in pea worldwide. Cultivated pea plants have a low resistance to this disease. Although quantitative trait loci (QTLs) involved in the resistance to Ascochyta blight have been identified, the specific genes associated with these QTLs remain unknown, which makes marker-assisted selection difficult. Complex traits alter proteins and their abundance. Quantitative estimation of proteins in pea might therefore be useful in selecting potential markers for breeding. In this work, we developed a strategy using a combination of shotgun proteomics (viz., high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry data-dependent acquisition) and data-independent acquisition (DIA) analysis, to identify putative protein markers associated with resistance to Ascochyta blight and explored its use for breeding selection. For this purpose, an initial list of target peptides based on proteins closely related to resistance to P. pinodes was compiled by using two genotypes with contrasting responses to the disease. Then, targeted data analysis (viz., shotgun proteomics-DIA) was used for constitutive quantification of the target peptides in a representative number of the recombinant inbred line population segregated for resistance as derived from a cross between the two genotypes. Finally, a peptide panel of potential markers for resistance to P. pinodes was built. The results thus obtained are discussed and compared with those of previous gene expression studies using the same parental pea genotypes responding to the pathogen. Also, a molecular defense mechanism against Ascochyta blight in pea is proposed. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first time a targeted proteomics approach based on data analysis has been used to identify peptides associated with resistance to this disease.
PXD017144	32041780	Opposing effects of polysulfides and thioredoxin on apoptosis through caspase persulfidation. 	Antagonistic regulation of apoptosis by polysulfides and thioredoxin via persulfidation of caspases	Polysulfides, apoptosis, caspases, persulfidation, thioredoxin	Hydrogen sulfide has been implicated in a large number of physiological processes including cell survival and death, encouraging research into its mechanisms of action and therapeutic potential. Results from recent studies suggest that the cellular effects of hydrogen sulfide are mediated in part by sulfane sulfur species, including persulfides and polysulfides. In the present study, we investigated the apoptosis-modulating effects of polysulfides, especially on the caspase cascade, which mediates the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Biochemical analyses revealed that organic or synthetic polysulfides strongly and rapidly inhibit the enzymatic activity of caspase-3, a major effector protease in apoptosis. We attributed the caspase-3 inhibition to persulfidation of its catalytic cysteine. In apoptotically stimulated HeLa cells, short-term exposure to polysulfides triggered the persulfidation and deactivation of cleaved caspase-3. These effects were antagonized by the thioredoxin/thioredoxin reductase system (Trx/TrxR). Trx/TrxR restored the activity of polysulfide-inactivated caspase-3 in vitro, and TrxR inhibition potentiated polysulfide-mediated suppression of caspase-3 activity in situ We further found that under conditions of low TrxR activity, early cell exposure to polysulfides leads to enhanced persulfidation of initiator caspase-9 and decreases apoptosis. Notably, we show that the proenzymes procaspase-3 and -9 are basally persulfidated in resting (unstimulated) cells and become depersulfidated during their processing and activation. Inhibition of TrxR attenuated the depersulfidation and activation of caspase-9. Taken together, our results reveal that polysulfides target the caspase-9/3 cascade and thereby suppress cancer cell apoptosis, and highlight the role of Trx/TrxR-mediated depersulfidation in enabling caspase activation.
PXD016452	32041786	The Dynll1-Cox4i1 Complex Regulates Intracellular Pathogen Clearance via Release of Mitochondrial Reactive Oxygen Species. 	The Dynll1-Cox4il Complex Regulates Intracellular Pathogen Clearance via Release of Mitochondrial Reactive Oxygen Species	Dynll1-Cox4il Complex  Listeria monocytogenes  Reactive oxygen species  Membrane proteins	Cellular membrane proteins are a critical part of the host defense mechanisms against infection and intracellular survival of Listeria monocytogenes The complex spatiotemporal regulation of bacterial infection by various membrane proteins has been challenging to study. Here, using mass spectrometry analyses, we depicted the dynamic expression landscape of membrane proteins upon L. monocytogenes infection in dendritic cells. We showed that Dynein light chain 1 (Dynll1) formed a persistent complex with the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase Cox4i1, which is disturbed by pathogen insult. We discovered that the dissociation of the Dynll1-Cox4i1 complex is required for the release of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and serves as a regulator of intracellular proliferation of Listeria monocytogenes Our study shows that Dynll1 is an inhibitor of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and can serve as a potential molecular drug target for antibacterial treatment.
PXD014747	32041945	Temporal dynamics of protein complex formation and dissociation during human cytomegalovirus infection. 	Temporal dynamics of protein complex formation and dissociation during human cytomegalovirus infection	HCMV, MS-CETSA, TPCA, cellular thermal shift assay, cytomegalovirus, herpesvirus, thermal proximity coaggregation	The co-evolution and co-existence of viral pathogens with their hosts for millions of years is reflected in dynamic virus-host protein-protein interactions (PPIs) that are intrinsic to the spread of infections. Here, we investigate the system-wide dynamics of protein complexes throughout infection with the herpesvirus, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). Integrating thermal shift assays and mass spectrometry quantification with virology and microscopy, we monitor the temporal formation and dissociation of hundreds of functional protein complexes and the dynamics of host-host, virus-host, and virus-virus PPIs. We establish pro-viral roles for cellular protein complexes and translocating proteins. We show the HCMV receptor integrin beta 1 dissociates from extracellular matrix proteins, becoming internalized with CD63, which is necessary for virus production. Moreover, this approach facilitates characterization of essential viral proteins, such as pUL52. This study of temporal protein complex dynamics provides insights into mechanisms of HCMV infection and a resource for biological and therapeutic studies.
PXD012739	32041947	Precise timing of transcription by c-di-GMP coordinates cell cycle and morphogenesis in Caulobacter. 	Contribution of ShkA dysregulation to the cdG0 phenotype	C. cresentus, ESI, LFQ, Oribtrap, ShkA	Bacteria adapt their growth rate to their metabolic status and environmental conditions by modulating the length of their G1 period. Here we demonstrate that a gradual increase in the concentration of the second messenger c-di-GMP determines precise gene expression during G1/S transition in Caulobacter crescentus. We show that c-di-GMP stimulates the kinase ShkA by binding to its central pseudo-receiver domain, activates the TacA transcription factor, and initiates a G1/S-specific transcription program leading to cell morphogenesis and S-phase entry. Activation of the ShkA-dependent genetic program causes c-di-GMP to reach peak levels, which triggers S-phase entry and promotes proteolysis of ShkA and TacA. Thus, a gradual increase of c-di-GMP results in precise control of ShkA-TacA activity, enabling G1/S-specific gene expression that coordinates cell cycle and morphogenesis.
PXD011523	32042025	Active nuclear import of the deacetylase Sirtuin-2 is controlled by its C-terminus and importins. 	Proteomics-based identification of SIRT2 interaction partners	AP-MS, SIRT2, bacterial infection, nuclear translocation, tumorigenesis	The NAD-dependent deacetylase Sirtuin-2 (SIRT2) functions in diverse cellular processes including the cell cycle, metabolism, and has important roles in tumorigenesis and bacterial infection. SIRT2 predominantly resides in the cytoplasm but can also function in the nucleus. Consequently, SIRT2 localisation and its interacting partners may greatly impact its function and need to be defined more clearly. In this study we used mass spectrometry to determine the interactomes of SIRT2 in whole cells and in specific cellular fractions; cytoplasm, nucleus and chromatin. Using this approach, we identified novel interacting partners of SIRT2. These included a number of proteins that function in nuclear import. We show that multiple importins interact with and contribute to the basal nuclear shuttling of SIRT2 and that one of these, IPO7 is required for SIRT2 mediated H3K18 deacetylation in response to bacterial infection. Furthermore, we reveal that the unstructured C-terminus of SIRT2 negatively regulates importin-binding and nuclear transport. This study demonstrates that SIRT2 is actively transported into the nucleus via a process regulated by its C-terminus and provides a resource of SIRT2 interacting partners.
PXD015672	32042044	Fasting-induced FGF21 signaling activates hepatic autophagy and lipid degradation via JMJD3 histone demethylase. 	Histone demethylase JMJD3 is a key epigenetic activator of FGF21 signaling-induced hepatic autophagy and lipolysis	Autophagy, FGF21, Histone demethylase JMJD3, Human Proteome Project, Lypolysis, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Autophagy is essential for cellular survival and energy homeostasis under nutrient deprivation. Despite the emerging importance of nuclear events in autophagy regulation, epigenetic control of autophagy gene transcription remains unclear. Here, we report fasting-induced Fibroblast Growth Factor-21 (FGF21) signaling activates hepatic autophagy and lipid degradation via Jumonji-D3 (JMJD3/KDM6B) histone demethylase. Upon FGF21 signaling, JMJD3 epigenetically upregulates global autophagy-network genes, including Tfeb, Atg7, Atgl, and Fgf21, through demethylation of histone H3K27-me3, resulting in autophagy-mediated lipid degradation. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of JMJD3 at Thr-1044 by FGF21 signal-activated PKA increases its nuclear localization and interaction with the nuclear receptor PPARalpha to transcriptionally activate autophagy. Administration of FGF21 in obese mice improves defective autophagy and hepatosteatosis in a JMJD3-dependent manner. Remarkably, in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease patients, hepatic expression of JMJD3, ATG7, LC3, and ULK1 is substantially decreased. These findings demonstrate that FGF21-JMJD3 signaling epigenetically links nutrient deprivation with hepatic autophagy and lipid degradation in mammals.
PXD017031	32042062	Molecular basis for N-terminal acetylation by human NatE and its modulation by HYPK. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of immunoprecipitated NAA15-V5 variants	HYPK, N-terminal acetylation, NAA10, NAA15, NAA50, NatE	The human N-terminal acetyltransferase E (NatE) contains NAA10 and NAA50 catalytic, and NAA15 auxiliary subunits and associates with HYPK, a protein with intrinsic NAA10 inhibitory activity. NatE co-translationally acetylates the N-terminus of half the proteome to mediate diverse biological processes, including protein half-life, localization, and interaction. The molecular basis for how NatE and HYPK cooperate is unknown. Here, we report the cryo-EM structures of human NatE and NatE/HYPK complexes and associated biochemistry. We reveal that NAA50 and HYPK exhibit negative cooperative binding to NAA15 in vitro and in human cells by inducing NAA15 shifts in opposing directions. NAA50 and HYPK each contribute to NAA10 activity inhibition through structural alteration of the NAA10 substrate-binding site. NAA50 activity is increased through NAA15 tethering, but is inhibited by HYPK through structural alteration of the NatE substrate-binding site. These studies reveal the molecular basis for coordinated N-terminal acetylation by NatE and HYPK.
PXD013836	32042278	Quantitative site- and structure-specific N-glycoproteomics characterization of differential N-glycosylation in MCF-7/ADR cancer stem cells. 	Human Breast LC-MSMS -  Quantitative site- and structure-specific N-glycoproteomics characterization of differential N-glycosylation in MCF-7/ADR cancer stem cells	Breast, CSCs, MCF7/ADR	BACKGROUND: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are reported to be responsible for tumor initiation, progression, metastasis, and therapy resistance where P-glycoprotein (P-gp) as well as other glycoproteins are involved. Identification of these glycoprotein markers is critical for understanding the resistance mechanism and developing therapeutics. METHODS: In this study, we report our comparative and quantitative site- and structure-specific N-glycoproteomics study of MCF-7/ADR cancer stem cells (CSCs) vs. MCF-7/ADR cells. With zic-HILIC enrichment, isotopic diethyl labeling, RPLC-MS/MS (HCD) analysis and GPSeeker DB search, differentially expressed N-glycosylation was quantitatively characterized at the intact N-glycopeptide level. RESULTS: 4016 intact N-glycopeptides were identified with spectrum-level FDR <= 1%. With the criteria of >= 1.5 fold change and p value < 0.05, 247 intact N-glycopeptides were found differentially expressed in MCF-7/ADR CSCs as putative markers. Raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD013836. CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative site- and structure-specific N-glycoproteomics characterization may help illustrate the cell stemness property.
PXD017265	32043875	Predicting Electrophoretic Mobility of Proteoforms for Large-Scale Top-Down Proteomics. 	Predicting electrophoretic mobility of proteoforms for large-scale top-down proteomics	CZE-MS, electrophoretic mobility, proteoform, top-down proteomics	Large-scale top-down proteomics characterizes proteoforms in cells globally with high confidence and high throughput using reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RPLC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) or capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE)-MS/MS. The false discovery rate (FDR) from the target-decoy database search is typically deployed to filter identified proteoforms to ensure high-confidence identifications (IDs). It has been demonstrated that the FDRs in top-down proteomics can be drastically underestimated. An alternative approach to the FDR can be useful for further evaluating the confidence of proteoform IDs after the database search. We argue that predicting retention/migration time of proteoforms from the RPLC/CZE separation accurately and comparing their predicted and experimental separation time could be a useful and practical approach. Based on our knowledge, there is still no report in the literature about predicting separation time of proteoforms using large top-down proteomics data sets. In this pilot study, for the first time, we evaluated various semiempirical models for predicting proteoforms' electrophoretic mobility (muef) using large-scale top-down proteomics data sets from CZE-MS/MS. We achieved a linear correlation between experimental and predicted muef of E. coli proteoforms (R(2) = 0.98) with a simple semiempirical model, which utilizes the number of charges and molecular mass of each proteoform as the parameters. Our modeling data suggest that the complete unfolding of proteoforms during CZE separation benefits the prediction of their muef. Our results also indicate that N-terminal acetylation and phosphorylation both decrease the proteoforms' charge by roughly one charge unit.
PXD014451	32045382	Erythrocyte-derived microvesicles induce arterial spasms in JAK2V617F myeloproliferative neoplasm. 	Pathophysiology of arterial cardiovascular events in patients with JAK2V617F myeloproliferative neoplasms	JAK2V617F, microvesicles, myeloproliferative neoplasms, red blood cells	Arterial cardiovascular events are the leading cause of death in patients with JAK2V617F myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). However, their mechanisms are poorly understood. The high prevalence of myocardial infarction without significant coronary stenosis or atherosclerosis in patients with MPNs suggests that vascular function is altered. The consequences of JAK2V617F mutation on vascular reactivity are unknown. We observe here increased responses to vasoconstrictors in arteries from Jak2V617F mice resulting from a disturbed endothelial NO pathway and increased endothelial oxidative stress. This response was reproduced in WT mice by circulating microvesicles isolated from patients carrying JAK2V617F and by erythrocyte-derived microvesicles from transgenic mice. Microvesicles of other cellular origins had no effect. This effect was observed ex vivo on isolated aortas, but also in vivo on femoral arteries. Proteomic analysis of microvesicles derived from JAK2V617F erythrocytes identified increased expression of myeloperoxidase as the likely mechanism accounting for their effect. Myeloperoxidase inhibition in microvesicles derived from JAK2V617F erythrocytes suppressed their effect on oxidative stress. Antioxidants such as simvastatin and N-acetyl cysteine improved arterial dysfunction in Jak2V617F mice. In conclusion, JAK2V617F MPNs are characterized by exacerbated vasoconstrictor responses resulting from increased endothelial oxidative stress caused by circulating erythrocyte-derived microvesicles. Simvastatin appears to be a promising therapeutic strategy in this setting.
PXD017197	32046032	Plasma Membrane Ca(2+) Permeable Mechanosensitive Channel OsDMT1 Is Involved in Regulation of Plant Architecture and Ion Homeostasis in Rice. 	The iTRAQ-based proteome profile was also identified in the mutant and WT to provide a deeper insight into post-transcriptional modifications	iTRAQ, leaf, rice	Plant architecture is an important factor for crop production. Plant height, tiller pattern, and panicle morphology are decisive factors for high grain yield in rice. Here, we isolated and characterized a T-DNA insertion rice mutant Osdmt1 (Oryza sativa dwarf and multi-tillering1) that exhibited a severe dwarf phenotype and multi-tillering. Molecular cloning revealed that DMT1 encodes a plasma membrane protein that was identified as a putative Ca(2+) permeable mechanosensitive channel. The transcript expression level was significantly higher in the dmt1 mutant compared to wild type (WT). Additionally, the dmt1 homozygous mutant displayed a stronger phenotype than that of the WT and heterozygous seedlings after gibberellic acid (GA) treatment. RNA-seq and iTRAQ-based proteome analyses were performed between the dmt1 mutant and WT. The transcriptome profile revealed that several genes involved in GA and strigolactone (SL) biosyntheses were altered in the dmt1 mutant. Ca(2+) and other ion concentrations were significantly enhanced in the dmt1 mutant, suggesting that DMT1 contributes to the accumulation of several ions in rice. Moreover, several EF-hand Ca(2+) sensors, including CMLs (CaM-like proteins) and CDPKs (calcium-dependent protein kinases), displayed markedly altered transcript expression and protein levels in the dmt1 mutant. Overall, these findings aid in the elucidation of the multiply regulatory roles of OsDMT1/OsMCA1 in rice.
PXD014062	32047025	Proteogenomics Uncovers a Vast Repertoire of Shared Tumor-Specific Antigens in Ovarian Cancer. 	LC-MSMS of primary HGSC class I immunopeptidom	HGSC, MHC class I, immunopeptidome	High-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC), the principal cause of death from gynecologic malignancies in the world, has not significantly benefited from advances in cancer immunotherapy. Although HGSC infiltration by lymphocytes correlates with superior survival, the nature of antigens that can elicit anti-HGSC immune responses is unknown. The goal of this study was to establish the global landscape of HGSC tumor-specific antigens (TSA) using a mass spectrometry pipeline that interrogated all reading frames of all genomic regions. In 23 HGSC tumors, we identified 103 TSAs. Classic TSA discovery approaches focusing only on mutated exonic sequences would have uncovered only three of these TSAs. Other mutated TSAs resulted from out-of-frame exonic translation (n = 2) or from noncoding sequences (n = 7). One group of TSAs (n = 91) derived from aberrantly expressed unmutated genomic sequences, which were not expressed in normal tissues. These aberrantly expressed TSAs (aeTSA) originated primarily from nonexonic sequences, in particular intronic (29%) and intergenic (22%) sequences. Their expression was regulated at the transcriptional level by variations in gene copy number and DNA methylation. Although mutated TSAs were unique to individual tumors, aeTSAs were shared by a large proportion of HGSCs. Taking into account the frequency of aeTSA expression and HLA allele frequencies, we calculated that, in Caucasians, the median number of aeTSAs per tumor would be five. We conclude that, in view of their number and the fact that they are shared by many tumors, aeTSAs may be the most attractive targets for HGSC immunotherapy.
PXD016221	32047031	Nucleolar localization of RAG1 modulates V(D)J recombination activity. 	2019 Brecht et al. RAG1 vAbl BioID LC-MS/MS	BioID, Pre B Cell, RAG1, V(D)J Recombination, vAbl Cell	V(D)J recombination assembles and diversifies Ig and T cell receptor genes in developing B and T lymphocytes. The reaction is initiated by the RAG1-RAG2 protein complex which binds and cleaves at discrete gene segments in the antigen receptor loci. To identify mechanisms that regulate V(D)J recombination, we used proximity-dependent biotin identification to analyze the interactomes of full-length and truncated forms of RAG1 in pre-B cells. This revealed an association of RAG1 with numerous nucleolar proteins in a manner dependent on amino acids 216 to 383 and allowed identification of a motif required for nucleolar localization. Experiments in transformed pre-B cell lines and cultured primary pre-B cells reveal a strong correlation between disruption of nucleoli, reduced association of RAG1 with a nucleolar marker, and increased V(D)J recombination activity. Mutation of the RAG1 nucleolar localization motif boosts recombination while removal of the first 215 amino acids of RAG1, required for efficient egress from nucleoli, reduces recombination activity. Our findings indicate that nucleolar sequestration of RAG1 is a negative regulatory mechanism in V(D)J recombination and identify regions of the RAG1 N-terminal region that control nucleolar association and egress.
PXD011932	32047143	Quantitative SUMO proteomics identifies PIAS1 substrates involved in cell migration and motility. 	Quantitative proteomics identifies novel PIAS1 protein substrates involved in cell migration and motility	PIAS1, SUMOylation, Vimentin, cell invasion, quantitative proteomics	The protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) is an E3 SUMO ligase that plays important roles in various cellular pathways. Increasing evidence shows that PIAS1 is overexpressed in various human malignancies, including prostate and lung cancers. Here we used quantitative SUMO proteomics to identify potential substrates of PIAS1 in a system-wide manner. We identified 983 SUMO sites on 544 proteins, of which 62 proteins were assigned as putative PIAS1 substrates. In particular, vimentin (VIM), a type III intermediate filament protein involved in cytoskeleton organization and cell motility, was SUMOylated by PIAS1 at Lys-439 and Lys-445 residues. VIM SUMOylation was necessary for its dynamic disassembly and cells expressing a non-SUMOylatable VIM mutant showed a reduced level of migration. Our approach not only enables the identification of E3 SUMO ligase substrates but also yields valuable biological insights into the unsuspected role of PIAS1 and VIM SUMOylation on cell motility.
PXD016833	32049018	Plasmodium Condensin Core Subunits SMC2/SMC4 Mediate Atypical Mitosis and Are Essential for Parasite Proliferation and Transmission. 	Plasmodium condensin core subunits (SMC2/SMC4) mediate atypical mitosis and are essential for parasite proliferation and transmission	Condensin, LC-MS, Malaria, Plasmodium berghei, SCM2, SCM4, Warwick-RTP, parasite	Condensin is a multi-subunit protein complex regulating chromosome condensation and segregation during cell division. In Plasmodium spp., the causative agent of malaria, cell division is atypical and the role of condensin is unclear. Here we examine the role of SMC2 and SMC4, the core subunits of condensin, during endomitosis in schizogony and endoreduplication in male gametogenesis. During early schizogony, SMC2/SMC4 localize to a distinct focus, identified as the centromeres by NDC80 fluorescence and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses, but do not form condensin I or II complexes. In mature schizonts and during male gametogenesis, there is a diffuse SMC2/SMC4 distribution on chromosomes and in the nucleus, and both condensin I and condensin II complexes form at these stages. Knockdown of smc2 and smc4 gene expression reveals essential roles in parasite proliferation and transmission. The condensin core subunits (SMC2/SMC4) form different complexes and may have distinct functions at various stages of the parasite life cycle.
PXD017473	32050077	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of the Central Amygdala in Neuropathic Pain Model Rats. 	Quantative proteomic analysis of teh central amygdala in neuropathic pain model rats	2D-gel, ncentral amygdala, spinal nerve transcection	Pain and emotional distress have a reciprocal relation. The amygdala has been implicated in emotional processing. The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) receives nociceptive information from the dorsal horn of spinal cord and is responsible for the central plasticity in chronic pain. Neuropathic pain is a type of severe chronic pain and can be strongly influenced by emotional components. Plastic changes in the CeA may play a key role in the development or maintenance or both of neuropathic pain. We studied the expression levels of proteins in the CeA of spinal nerve transection (SNT) model rats. Total tissue lysate proteins were separated by two-dimensional-gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE). Gels from different time points were compared using Progenesis SameSpot software, and the spots with Fold Change greater than 2 were excised for protein identification by mass spectrometry. We identified more than 50 cytosolic proteins as significantly altered in their expression levels in the CeA of SNT rats, and most of these changes have been validated at mRNA levels by qRT-PCR. We also identified more than 40 membrane proteins as notably up- or down-regulated in the CeA of SNT model rats relative to a control using stable isotope dimethyl labeling nano-LC-MS/MS based proteomics and found that one such protein, doublecortin (DCX), a microtubule-associated protein expressed by neuronal precursor cells during development, is specifically localized in the membrane fraction without changes in total amount of the protein. Immunohistochemistry showed that doublecortin is expressed in processes in the CeA of rats 7 and 21 days after SNT surgery, suggesting that doublecortin is one of the proteins that may contribute to the plastic changes, namely, redevelopment or rewiring of neural networks, in the CeA in the neuropathic pain model. These dysregulated proteins may play roles in reciprocal relationships between pain and psychological distress in the amygdala and contribute to central sensitization. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017473.
PXD017309	32050583	Quantitative Proteomics to Identify Nuclear RNA-Binding Proteins of Malat1. 	Quantitative Proteomics to identify nuclear RNA-binding proteins of Malat1	Malat1, RBPs, interactome, lncRNA	The long non-coding RNA Malat1 has been implicated in several human cancers, while the mechanism of action is not completely understood. As RNAs in cells function together with RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), the composition of their RBP complex can shed light on their functionality. We here performed quantitative interactomics of 14 non-overlapping fragments covering the full length of Malat1 to identify possible nuclear interacting proteins. Overall, we identified 35 candidates including 14 already known binders, which are able to interact with Malat1 in the nucleus. Furthermore, the use of fragments along the full-length RNA allowed us to reveal two hotspots for protein binding, one in the 5'-region and one in the 3'-region of Malat1. Our results provide confirmation on previous RNA-protein interaction studies and suggest new candidates for functional investigations.
PXD017262	32050764	Label-free Proteomics for Discovering Biomarker Candidates for Controlling Krypton Misuse in Castrated Horses (Geldings). 	Label-free Proteomics for Discovering Biomarker Candidates for Controlling Krypton Misuse in Castrated Horses (Geldings)	biomarkers, data-independent acquisition, horse, krypton	Recent advances in label-free quantitative proteomics may support its application in identifying and monitoring biomarkers for the purpose of doping control in equine sports. In this study, we developed a workflow of label-free quantitative proteomics to propose plasma protein biomarkers in horses after administration with krypton (Kr), a potential erythropoiesis-stimulating agent. Plasma proteomes were profiled by using nanoliquid chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry. An in-house mass spectral library consisting of 1121 proteins was compiled using samples collected from geldings (castrated horses) in the administration trial and geldings in training. A data-independent acquisition method was used to quantify an array of plasma proteins across plasma samples from the administration trial. Statistical analyses proposed a profile of 83 biomarker candidates that successfully differentiated Kr-administered samples from control samples, with the ability to detect Kr exposure for up to 13 days (the last sample collected in the administration trial). The model also correctly classified 32 in-training geldings as untreated controls. This is significantly longer than the 1 h detection time of plasma Kr using headspace gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Bioinformatic analyses enriched biomarker candidates relevant to complement activation and iron metabolism. The upregulation of transferrin receptor protein 1, one of the candidates related to iron metabolism, in plasma after Kr administration was validated by selected reaction monitoring of corresponding peptides. These results have demonstrated label-free quantitative proteomics as a promising approach to propose plasma protein biomarkers to enhance doping control. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017262.
PXD016662	32051234	A Compact Quadrupole-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer with FAIMS Interface Improves Proteome Coverage in Short LC Gradients. 	A Compact Quadrupole-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer with FAIMS Interface Improves Proteome Coverage in Short LC Gradients	Bottom-up Shotgun proteomics, DDA, DIA, FAIMS, Orbitrap, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, TMT, phosphoproteomics	State-of-the-art proteomics-grade mass spectrometers can measure peptide precursors and their fragments with ppm mass accuracy at sequencing speeds of tens of peptides per second with attomolar sensitivity. Here we describe a compact and robust quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometer equipped with a front-end High Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS) Interface. The performance of the Orbitrap Exploris 480 mass spectrometer is evaluated in data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and data-independent acquisition (DIA) modes in combination with FAIMS. We demonstrate that different compensation voltages (CVs) for FAIMS are optimal for DDA and DIA, respectively. Combining DIA with FAIMS using single CVs, the instrument surpasses 2500 peptides identified per minute. This enables quantification of >5000 proteins with short online LC gradients delivered by the Evosep One LC system allowing acquisition of 60 samples per day. The raw sensitivity of the instrument is evaluated by analyzing 5 ng of a HeLa digest from which >1000 proteins were reproducibly identified with 5 min LC gradients using DIA-FAIMS. To demonstrate the versatility of the instrument, we recorded an organ-wide map of proteome expression across 12 rat tissues quantified by tandem mass tags and label-free quantification using DIA with FAIMS to a depth of >10,000 proteins.
PXD014095	32053710	Proteomic characterization and comparison of ram (Ovis aries) and buck (Capra hircus) spermatozoa proteome using a data independent acquisition mass spectometry (DIA-MS) approach. 	Proteomic characterization and comparison of spermatozoa proteomes between ram (Ovis. aries) and buck (Capra. hircus) using a data-independent acquisition-mass spectrometry (DIA-MS)	buck, data-independent acquisition, ram, spermatozoa protein	Fresh semen is most commonly used in an artificial insemination of small ruminants, because of low fertility rates of frozen sperm. Generally, when developing and applying assisted reproductive technologies, sheep and goats are classified as one species. In order to optimize sperm cryopreservation protocols in sheep and goat, differences in sperm proteomes between ram and buck are necessary to investigate, which may contribute to differences in function and fertility of spermatozoa. In the current work, a data-independent acquisition-mass spectrometry proteomic approach was used to characterize and make a comparison of ram (Ovis aries) and buck (Capra hircus) sperm proteomes. A total of 2,109 proteins were identified in ram and buck spermatozoa, with 238 differentially abundant proteins. Proteins identified in ram and buck spermatozoa are mainly involved in metabolic pathways for generation of energy and diminishing oxidative stress. Specifically, there are greater abundance of spermatozoa proteins related to the immune protective and capacity activities in ram, while protein that inhibit sperm capacitation shows greater abundance in buck. Our results not only provide novel insights into the characteristics and potential activities of spermatozoa proteins, but also expand the potential direction for sperm cryopreservation in ram and buck.
PXD012523	32054826	PERK-mediated expression of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase supports angiogenesis in glioblastoma. 	Secretome analysis of glioblastoma cells	DDA, PERK inhibitor, glioblastoma, label-free, secretome, shot-gun proteomics	PKR-like kinase (PERK) plays a significant role in inducing angiogenesis in various cancer types including glioblastoma. By proteomics analysis of the conditioned medium from a glioblastoma cell line treated with a PERK inhibitor, we showed that peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) expression is regulated by PERK under hypoxic conditions. Moreover, PERK activation via CCT020312 (a PERK selective activator) increased the cleavage and thus the generation of PAM cleaved cytosolic domain (PAM sfCD) that acts as a signaling molecule from the cytoplasm to the nuclei. PERK was also found to interact with PAM, suggesting a possible involvement in the generation of PAM sfCD. Knockdown of PERK or PAM reduced the formation of tubes by HUVECs in vitro. Furthermore, in vivo data highlighted the importance of PAM in the growth of glioblastoma with reduction of PAM expression in engrafted tumor significantly increasing the survival in mice. In summary, our data revealed PAM as a potential target for antiangiogenic therapy in glioblastoma.
PXD014226	32054864	Cross-talks of glycosylphosphatidylinositol biosynthesis with glycosphingolipid biosynthesis and ER-associated degradation. 	Determination of GPI structure of human CD59 in HEK293 cells	B3GALT4, GPI anchor, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins and glycosphingolipids interact with each other in the mammalian plasma membranes, forming dynamic microdomains. How their interaction starts in the cells has been unclear. Here, based on a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 genetic screen for genes required for GPI side-chain modification by galactose in the Golgi apparatus, we report that beta1,3-galactosyltransferase 4 (B3GALT4), the previously characterized GM1 ganglioside synthase, additionally functions in transferring galactose to the N-acetylgalactosamine side-chain of GPI. Furthermore, B3GALT4 requires lactosylceramide for the efficient GPI side-chain galactosylation. Thus, our work demonstrates previously unexpected functional relationships between GPI-anchored proteins and glycosphingolipids in the Golgi. Through the same screening, we also show that GPI biosynthesis in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is severely suppressed by ER-associated degradation to prevent GPI accumulation when the transfer of synthesized GPI to proteins is defective. Our data demonstrates cross-talks of GPI biosynthesis with glycosphingolipid biosynthesis and the ER quality control system.
PXD014262	32056334	Pleiotropic effects of Ubi4, a polyubiquitin precursor required for ubiquitin accumulation, conidiation and pathogenicity of a fungal insect pathogen. 	Beauveria bassiana ubiquitination	Beauveria bassiana, ubiquitination	Ubi4 is a polyubiquitin precursor well characterized in yeasts but unexplored in insect mycopathogens. Here, we report that orthologous Ubi4 plays a core role in ubiquitin- and asexual lifestyle-required cellular events in Beauveria bassiana. Deletion of ubi4 led to abolished ubiquitin accumulation, blocked autophagic process, severe defects in conidiation and conidial quality, reduced cell tolerance to oxidative, osmotic, cell wall perturbing and heat-shock stresses, decreased transcript levels of development-activating and antioxidant genes, but light effect on radial growth under normal conditions. The deletion mutant lost insect pathogenicity via normal cuticle infection and was severely compromised in virulence via cuticle-bypassing infection due to a block of dimorphic transition critical for acceleration of host mummification. Proteomic and ubiquitylomic analyses revealed 1081 proteins differentially expressed and 639 lysine residues significantly hyper- or hypo-ubiquitylated in the deletion mutant, including dozens of ubiquitin-activating, conjugating and ligating enzymes, core histones, and many more involved in proteasomes, autophagy-lysosome process and protein degradation. Singular deletions of seven ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme genes exerted differential Ubi4-like effects on conidiation level and conidial traits. These findings uncover an essential role of Ubi4 in ubiquitin transfer cascade and its pleiotropic effects on the in vitro and in vivo asexual cycle of B. bassiana.
PXD012899	32058072	Cone snail analogs of the pituitary hormones oxytocin/vasopressin and their carrier protein neurophysin. Proteomic and transcriptomic identification of conopressins and conophysins. 	Analysis of C.monile venom peptides.	cone snail, conophysin, conopressin, conotoxins, mass spectrometry., neurophysin, oxytocin, vasopressin	Transcriptomic analysis of cone snail venom duct tissue has permitted the identification of diverse conopressin/conophysin precursor sequences from seven distinct Conus species. Multiple precursor isoforms are present in C.monile, C.lividus and C.loroisii. Aqueous extracts of the venom duct tissue from C.monile yield a band, at ~ 15-20 kDa on SDS-PAGE. In-gel trypsin digestion, followed by mass spectrometry establishes the presence of two distinct conopressin/conophysin isoforms that differ at position 8 in the predicted conopressin nonapeptide sequence. Mass spectrometric analysis of aqueous extracts revealed the presence of four conopressin related peptides, whose sequences could be deduced from MS/MS fragmentation patterns. The four sequences determined in this study are CFIRNCPKG*, CFIRNCPEG*, CFIRNCPK* and CFIRNCPE* (* indicates amide), which were further confirmed by comparison with chemically synthesized peptides. A conophysin with a mass of 9419.7 Da was also detected, corresponding to one of the isoforms revealed by the transcriptome data. Complete conservation of fourteen Cys residues and the key residues involved in peptide hormone binding is established by comparison of conophysin sequences, with the crystallographically characterized sequence of bovine neurophysin, in complex with vasopressin. A survey of available sequences for oxytocin/vasopressin peptides in both vertebrates and invertebrates establishes the conopressins as a distinct group in this family. C-terminal amidated, truncated conopressin analogs may arise by alternate post-translational processing.
PXD014711	32058648	Exosomes mediate intercellular transfer of non-autonomous tolerance to proteasome inhibitors in mixed-lineage leukemia. 	Drug-tolerant cell-derived exosomes regulate proteasome inhibitor resistance pathways in MLL leukemias	MLL leukemia, drug tolerance, exosomes, proteasome inhibitor	Proteasome inhibitors significantly improve cancer outcomes, but their use is eventually followed by proteasome inhibitor resistance and relapse. Current understanding of proteasome inhibitor resistance is limited to cell-autonomous mechanisms; whether non-autonomous mechanisms can be implicated in the development of proteasome inhibitor resistance is unclear. Here, we show that proteasome inhibitor tolerance can be transmitted non-autonomously through exosome-mediated intercellular interactions. We revealed that reversible proteasome inhibitor resistance can be transmitted from cells under therapy stress to naive sensitive cells through exosome-mediated cell cycle arrest and enhanced stemness in mixed-lineage leukemia cells. Integrated multi-omics analysis using the Tied Diffusion through Interacting Events algorithm identified several candidate exosomal proteins that may serve as predictors for proteasome inhibitor resistance and potential therapeutic targets for treating refractory mixed-lineage leukemia. Furthermore, inhibiting the secretion of exosomes is a promising strategy for reversing proteasome inhibitor resistance in vivo, which provides a novel proof of principle for the treatment of other refractory or relapsed cancers.
PXD017449	32058723	Comprehensive Detection of Single Amino Acid Variants and Evaluation of Their Deleterious Potential in a PANC-1 Cell Line. 	comprehensive SAAVs detection in PANC-1 cell line	PANC-1, SAAVs, SRM	Identifying single amino acid variants (SAAVs) in cancer is critical for precision oncology. Several advanced algorithms are now available to identify SAAVs, but attempts to combine different algorithms and optimize them on large data sets to achieve a more comprehensive coverage of SAAVs have not been implemented. Herein, we report an expanded detection of SAAVs in the PANC-1 cell line using three different strategies, which results in the identification of 540 SAAVs in the mass spectrometry data. Among the set of 540 SAAVs, 79 are evaluated as deleterious SAAVs based on analysis using the novel AssVar software in which one of the driver mutations found in each protein of KRAS, TP53, and SLC37A4 is further validated using independent selected reaction monitoring (SRM) analysis. Our study represents the most comprehensive discovery of SAAVs to date and the first large-scale detection of deleterious SAAVs in the PANC-1 cell line. This work may serve as the basis for future research in pancreatic cancer and personal immunotherapy and treatment.
PXD016197	32058951	Multi-Omic Analyses of Growth Cones at Different Developmental Stages Provides Insight into Pathways in Adult Neuroregeneration. 	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of C57BL/6J mice after optic nerve crush Using iTRAQ Labeling	itraq, nerve crush, optic nerve	Growth cones (GCs) are structures associated with growing neurons. GC membrane expansion, which necessitates protein-lipid interactions, is critical to axonal elongation in development and in adult neuritogenesis. We present a multi-omic analysis that integrates proteomics and lipidomics data for the identification of GC pathways, cell phenotypes, and lipid-protein interactions, with an analytic platform to facilitate the visualization of these data. We combine lipidomic data from GC and adult axonal regeneration following optic nerve crush. Our results reveal significant molecular variability in GCs across developmental ages that aligns with the upregulation and downregulation of lipid metabolic processes and correlates with distinct changes in the lipid composition of GC plasmalemma. We find that these processes also define the transition into a growth-permissive state in the adult central nervous system. The insight derived from these analyses will aid in promoting adult regeneration and functional innervation in devastating neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD017025	32058975	Comprehensive Proteomic Characterization Reveals Subclass-Specific Molecular Aberrations within Triple-negative Breast Cancer. 	Comprehensive proteomic characterization reveals subclass-specific molecular aberrations within triple-negative breast cancer	Breast cancer, TNBC, kinase, protease, triple-negative	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive subtype of breast cancer lacking targeted therapies. This is attributed to its high heterogeneity that complicates elucidation of its molecular aberrations. Here, we report identification of specific proteome expression profiles pertaining to two TNBC subclasses, basal A and basal B, through in-depth proteomics analysis of breast cancer cells. We observed that kinases and proteases displayed unique expression patterns within the subclasses. Systematic analyses of protein-protein interaction and co-regulation networks of these kinases and proteases unraveled dysregulated pathways and plausible targets for each TNBC subclass. Among these, we identified kinases AXL, PEAK1, and TGFBR2 and proteases FAP, UCHL1, and MMP2/14 as specific targets for basal B subclass, which represents the more aggressive TNBC cell lines. Our study highlights intricate mechanisms and distinct targets within TNBC and emphasizes that these have to be exploited in a subclass-specific manner rather than a one-for-all TNBC therapy.
PXD015715	32059463	Responses of Acidobacteria Granulicella sp. WH15 to High Carbon Revealed by Integrated Omics Analyses. 	Acidobacteria Granulicella sp. WH15 responses to carbon stress	Genome, Oligothroph, Transcriptome, sigma factor W, stress signal, transporters	The phylum Acidobacteria is widely distributed in soils, but few representatives have been cultured. In general, Acidobacteria are oligotrophs and exhibit slow growth under laboratory conditions. We sequenced the genome of Granulicella sp. WH15, a strain obtained from decaying wood, and determined the bacterial transcriptome and proteome under growth in poor medium with a low or high concentration of sugar. We detected the presence of 217 carbohydrate-associated enzymes in the genome of strain WH15. Integrated analysis of the transcriptomic and proteomic profiles showed that high sugar triggered a stress response. As part of this response, transcripts related to cell wall stress, such as sigma factor sigmaW and toxin-antitoxin (TA) systems, were upregulated, as were several proteins involved in detoxification and repair, including MdtA and OprM. KEGG metabolic pathway analysis indicated the repression of carbon metabolism (especially the pentose phosphate pathway) and the reduction of protein synthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, and cell division, suggesting the arrest of cell activity and growth. In summary, the stress response of Granulicella sp. WH15 induced by the presence of a high sugar concentration in the medium resulted in the intensification of secretion functions to eliminate toxic compounds and the reallocation of resources to cell maintenance instead of growth.
PXD017412	32059637	Comparative milk proteome analysis of Kashmiri and Jersey cattle identifies differential expression of key proteins involved in immune system regulation and milk quality. 	Comparative milk proteome analysis of Kashmiri and Jersey cattle identifies differential expression of key proteins involved in immune system regulation and milk quality	Bos Taurus Milk Proteomics	BACKGROUND: Exploration of the bioactive components of bovine milk has gained global interest due to their potential applications in human nutrition and health promotion. Despite advances in proteomics profiling, limited studies have been carried out to fully characterize the bovine milk proteome. This study explored the milk proteome of Jersey and Kashmiri cattle at day 90 of lactation using high-resolution mass spectrometry based quantitative proteomics nano-scale LC-MS/Q-TOF technique. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017412. RESULTS: Proteins from whey were fractionated by precipitation into high and low abundant proteins. A total of 81 high-abundant and 99 low-abundant proteins were significantly differentially expressed between Kashmiri and Jersey cattle, clearly differentiating the two breeds at the proteome level. Among the top differentiating proteins, the Kashmiri cattle milk proteome was characterised by increased concentrations of immune-related proteins (apelin, acid glycoprotein, CD14 antigen), neonatal developmental protein (probetacellulin), xenobiotic metabolising enzyme (flavin monooxygenase 3 (FMO3), GLYCAM1 and HSP90AA1 (chaperone) while the Jersey milk proteome presented higher concentrations of enzyme modulators (SERPINA1, RAC1, serine peptidase inhibitor) and hydrolases (LTF, LPL, CYM, PNLIPRP2). Pathway analysis in Kashmiri cattle revealed enrichment of key pathways involved in the regulation of mammary gland development like Wnt signalling pathway, EGF receptor signalling pathway and FGF signalling pathway while a pathway (T-cell activation pathway) associated with immune system regulation was significantly enriched in Jersey cattle. Most importantly, the high-abundant FMO3 enzyme with an observed 17-fold higher expression in Kashmiri cattle milk seems to be a characteristic feature of the breed. The presence of this (FMO3) bioactive peptide/enzyme in Kashmiri cattle could be economically advantageous for milk products from Kashmiri cattle. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, this is the first study to provide insights not only into the milk proteome differences between Kashmiri and Jersey cattle but also provides potential directions for application of specific milk proteins from Kashmiri cattle in special milk preparations like infant formula.
PXD014221	32060021	Synergistic Effect of Multiple Saccharifying Enzymes on Alcoholic Fermentation for Chinese Baijiu Production. 	Metaproteomics of Jiuqu starter and fermented grains	Chinese liquor, Jiuqu, baijiu, ethanol, saccharifying enzyme, synergistic effect	Chinese Jiuqu (fermentation starter) provides saccharifying enzymes for baijiu (Chinese liquor) fermentation, which undergoes a simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process. However, the key saccharifying enzymes associated with alcoholic fermentation from Jiuqu and their effects on ethanol production remain poorly understood. In this study, we identified 51 carbohydrate hydrolases in baijiu fermentation by metaproteomics analysis. Through source-tracking analysis, approximately 80% of carbohydrate hydrolases in the baijiu fermentation were provided by Jiuqu Among these enzymes, alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) and glucoamylase (EC 3.2.1.3), from Aspergillus, Rhizomucor, and Rhizopus, were positively related to starch hydrolysis and ethanol production, indicating that they were the key saccharifying enzymes associated with alcoholic fermentation in the baijiu fermentation. Moreover, a combined mixture of alpha-amylase and glucoamylase (in a ratio of 1:6, wt/wt) enhanced ethanol production in a simulative baijiu fermentation under laboratory conditions. This result revealed a synergistic effect of multiple saccharifying enzymes on ethanol production in baijiu fermentation. Our study provides a potential approach to improve the efficiency of saccharification and alcoholic fermentation by optimizing the profile of saccharifying enzymes for fermentation of baijiu and other beverages.IMPORTANCEJiuqu starter provides enzymes to the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process of baijiu (Chinese liquor) production; however, the key saccharifying enzymes associated with alcoholic fermentation from Jiuqu and their effects on ethanol production remain unclear. We confirmed that Jiuqu was the main source of carbohydrate hydrolases for baijiu fermentation and identified two types of saccharifying enzymes from multiple microbes as the key enzymes associated with alcoholic fermentation. Moreover, a proper combination of multiple saccharifying enzymes could enhance ethanol production in baijiu fermentation. This combination provides an approach to optimize the profile of saccharifying enzymes for enhancing ethanol production in baijiu and other food fermentations.
PXD016644	32060258	O-GlcNAcylation of PFKFB3 is required for tumor cell proliferation under hypoxia. 	human PFKFB3 immunoprecipitates LC-MS/MS Raw DATA	PFKFB3	The protein O-GlcNAcylation catalysed by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) is tightly regulated by glucose availability. It is upregulated and essential for tumor cell proliferation under hypoxic conditions. However, the mechanism behind is still unclear. Here, we showed that the glycolytic regulator 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase (PFKFB3), which also promotes cell cycle progression in the nucleus, was O-GlcNAcylated in response to hypoxia. The O-GlcNAcylation of PFKFB3 could compete phosphorylation by hypoxia-activated ERK at the same modification site Ser172. Phosphorylated PFKFB3 could interact with the protein G3BP2 and retain in the cytosol; this in turn led to the accumulation of hypoxia-induced-P27 in the nucleus resulting in the cell cycle arrest. Such a pathway was compromised by high level of PFKFB3 O-GlcNAcylation in tumor cells contributing to cell cycle progression. Consistently, the PFKFB3-Ser172 phosphorylation level inversely correlated with the OGT level in pancreatic cancer patients. Our findings uncovered an O-GlcNAcylation mediated mechanism to promote tumor cell proliferation under metabolic stress, linking the aberrant OGT activity to tumorigenesis in pancreatic cancer.
PXD015957	32060274	Immunoproteasome expression is associated with better prognosis and response to checkpoint therapies in melanoma. 	Immunoproteasome expression is associated with better prognosis and response to checkpoint therapies in melanoma	HLA peptidomics, immunoproteasome, melanoma, neoantigens, tumor associated antigens	Predicting the outcome of immunotherapy treatment in melanoma patients is challenging. Alterations in genes involved in antigen presentation and the interferon gamma (IFNgamma) pathway play an important role in the immune response to tumors. We describe here that the overexpression of PSMB8 and PSMB9, two major components of the immunoproteasome, is predictive of better survival and improved response to immune-checkpoint inhibitors of melanoma patients. We study the mechanism underlying this connection by analyzing the antigenic peptide repertoire of cells that overexpress these subunits using HLA peptidomics. We find a higher response of patient-matched tumor infiltrating lymphocytes against antigens diferentially presented after immunoproteasome overexpression. Importantly, we find that PSMB8 and PSMB9 expression levels are much stronger predictors of melanoma patients' immune response to checkpoint inhibitors than the tumors' mutational burden. These results suggest that PSMB8 and PSMB9 expression levels can serve as important biomarkers for stratifying melanoma patients for immune-checkpoint treatment.
PXD017332	32060285	CEP44 ensures the formation of bona fide centriole wall, a requirement for the centriole-to-centrosome conversion. 	CEP44 ensures the formation of bona fide centriole wall, a requirement for the centriole-to-centrosome conversion	CEP44, POC1B, centriol-to-centrosome conversion, centrosome	Centrosomes are essential organelles with functions in microtubule organization that duplicate once per cell cycle. The first step of centrosome duplication is the daughter centriole formation followed by the pericentriolar material recruitment to this centriole. This maturation step was termed centriole-to-centrosome conversion. It was proposed that CEP295-dependent recruitment of pericentriolar proteins drives centriole conversion. Here we show, based on the analysis of proteins that promote centriole biogenesis, that the developing centriole structure helps drive centriole conversion. Depletion of the luminal centriole protein CEP44 that binds to the A-microtubules and interacts with POC1B affecting centriole structure and centriole conversion, despite CEP295 binding to centrioles. Impairment of POC1B, TUBE1 or TUBD1, which disturbs integrity of centriole microtubules, also prevents centriole-to-centrosome conversion. We propose that the CEP295, CEP44, POC1B, TUBE1 and TUBD1 centriole biogenesis pathway that functions in the centriole lumen and on the cytoplasmic side is essential for the centriole-to-centrosome conversion.
PXD016316	32061197	Transgelin Silencing Induces Different Processes in Different Breast Cancer Cell Lines. 	Transgelin silencing induces different processes in differrent breast cancer cell lines	Transgelin, apoptosis, breast cancer, cytoskeleton, metastasis, migration	Transgelin is a protein reported to be a marker of several cancers. However, previous studies have shown both up- and down-regulation of transgelin in tumors when compared with non-tumor tissues and the mechanisms whereby transgelin may affect the development of cancer remain largely unknown. Transgelin is especially abundant in smooth muscle cells and is associated with actin stress fibers. These contractile structures participate in cell motility, adhesion, and the maintenance of cell morphology. Here, the role of transgelin in breast cancer is focused on. Initially, the effects of transgelin on cell migration of the breast cancer cell lines, BT 549 and PMC 42, is studied. Interestingly, transgelin silencing increased the migration of PMC 42 cells, but decreased the migration of BT 549 cells. To clarify these contradictory results, the changes in protein abundances after transgelin silencing in these two cell lines are analyzed using quantitative proteomics. The results confirmed the role of transgelin in the migration of BT 549 cells and suggest the involvement of transgelin in apoptosis and small molecule biochemistry in PMC 42 cells. The context-dependent function of transgelin reflects the different molecular backgrounds of these cell lines, which differ in karyotypes, mutation statuses, and proteome profiles.
PXD017240	32061808	Proteomic analysis revealed different responses to hypergravity of soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles in mice. 	Proteomics data of mouse skeletal muscles (hypergravity exposure)	Extensor digitorum longus, Hypergravity exposure, Kibo project, Medical Proteomics, Skeletal muscle, Soleus	Investigating protein abundance profiles is important to understand the differences in the slow and fast skeletal muscle characteristics. The profiles in soleus (Sol) and extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles in mice exposed to 1 g or 3 g for 28 d were compared. The biological implications of the profiles revealed that hypergravity exposure activated a larger number of pathways involved in protein synthesis in Sol. In contrast, the inactivation of signalling pathways involved in oxidative phosphorylation were conspicuous in EDL. These results suggested that the reactivity of molecular pathways in Sol and EDL differed. Additionally, the levels of spermidine synthase and spermidine, an important polyamine for cell growth, increased in both muscles following hypergravity exposure, whereas the level of spermine oxidase (SMOX) increased in EDL alone. The SMOX level was negatively correlated with spermine content, which is involved in muscle atrophy, and was higher in EDL than Sol, even in the 1 g group. These results indicated that the contribution of SMOX to the regulation of spermidine and spermine contents in Sol and EDL differed. However, contrary to expectations, the difference in the SMOX level did not have a significant impact on the growth of these muscles following hypergravity exposure. SIGNIFICANCE: The skeletal muscle-specific protein abundance profiles result in differences in the characteristics of slow and fast skeletal muscles. We investigated differences in the profiles in mouse slow-twitch Sol and fast-twitch EDL muscles following 28-d of 1 g and 3 g exposure by LC-MS/MS analysis and label-free quantitation. A two-step solubilisation of the skeletal muscle proteins increased the coverage of proteins identified by LC-MS/MS analysis. Additionally, this method reduced the complexity of samples more easily than protein or peptide fractionation by SDS-PAGE and offline HPLC while maintaining the high operability of samples and was reproducible. A larger number of hypergravity-responsive proteins as well as a prominent increase in the wet weights was observed in Sol than EDL muscles. The biological implications of the difference in the protein abundance profiles in 1 g and 3 g groups revealed that the reactivity of each molecular pathway in Sol and EDL muscles to hypergravity exposure differed significantly. In addition, we found that the biosynthetic and interconversion pathway of polyamines, essential factors for cell growth and survival in mammals, was responsive to hypergravity exposure; spermidine and spermine contents in Sol and EDL muscles were regulated by different mechanisms even in the 1 g group. However, our results indicated that the difference in the mechanism regulating polyamine contents is unlikely to have a significant effect on the differences in Sol and EDL muscle growth following hypergravity exposure.
PXD014423	32061953	COPZ1 depletion in thyroid tumor cells triggers type I IFN response and immunogenic cell death. 	COPZ1 depletion in thyroid tumor cells triggers type-I IFN response and immunogenic cell death	nano lc-ms-ms, tumor	The coatomer protein complex zeta 1 (COPZ1) represents a non-oncogene addiction for thyroid cancer (TC); its depletion impairs the viability of thyroid tumor cells, leads to abortive autophagy, ER stress, UPR and apoptosis, and reduces tumor growth of TC xenograft models. In this study we investigated the molecular pathways activated by COPZ1 depletion and the paracrine effects on cellular microenvironment and immune response. By comprehensive and target approaches we demonstrated that COPZ1 depletion in TPC-1 and 8505C thyroid tumor cell lines activates type I IFN pathway and viral mimicry responses. The secretome from COPZ1-depleted cells was enriched for several inflammatory molecules and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Moreover, we found that dendritic cells, exposed to these secretomes, expressed high levels of differentiation and maturation markers, and stimulated the proliferation of naive T cells. Interestingly, T cells stimulated with COPZ1-depleted cells showed increased cytotoxic activity against parental tumor cells. Collectively, our findings support the notion that targeting COPZ1 may represent a promising therapeutic approach for TC, considering its specificity for cancer cells, the lack of effect on normal cells, and the capacity to prompt an anti-tumor immune response.
PXD017316	32063275	Harnessing the power of electrophoresis and chromatography: Offline coupling of reverse phase liquid chromatography-capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry for peptide mapping for monoclonal antibodies. 	Harnessing the power of electrophoresis and chromatography: Offline coupling of reverse phase liquid chromatography-capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry for peptide mapping for monoclonal antibodies	Biotherapeutics, CZEMSMS, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), RPLCMSMS, peptide mapping	RPLC-MS/MS is the present workhorse for bottom-up proteomics-based characterization. However it suffers from limited peak capacity and challenges with respect to detection of small and hydrophilic peptides. CZE-MS/MS offers an orthogonal alternative to RPLC-MS/MS but has limited sensitivity due to low sample loading. In the present work, for the first time, offline coupling of an RPLC-CZE-MS/MS has been demonstrated for peptide mapping of a monoclonal antibody-based therapeutic product. The performance of this platform has been compared to the state-of-the-art RPLC-MS/MS and CZE-MS/MS approaches. Fifteen fractions were isolated from a mAb tryptic digest using RPLC, and each fraction was analyzed by CZE-ESI-MS/MS. Results indicate that not only the RPLC-CZE-MS/MS platform identified a larger number of distinct peptides (372) than the RPLC-MS/MS (219) and CZE-MS/MS (177) platforms, it also offered significantly superior sequence coverage (99.55% vs. 89.76% and 94.21% for the heavy chain and 98.6% vs. 92.06% and 95.79% for the light chain). Also, the distribution of amino acid residues with post translational modifications was 413 for RPLC-CZE-MS/MS, 150 for RPLC-MS/MS and 94 for CZE-MS/MS. In fact, the RPLC-CZE-MS/MS system performed better than the combined datasets from RPLC-MS/MS or CZE-MS/MS. Our study shows that the traditionally used one-dimensional (1D) RPLC-MS/MS and CZE-MS/MS-based platforms may not be enough for characterization of complex molecules such as monoclonal antibodies. The proposed approach should be an essential addition to the analytical toolkit for in-depth primary structural characterization of mAbs.
PXD013168	32064253	Escherichia coli Can Adapt Its Protein Translocation Machinery for Enhanced Periplasmic Recombinant Protein Production. 	Escherichia coli can adapt its protein translocation machinery for enhanced periplasmic recombinant protein production	E.coli, Recombinant protein production, protein secretion	Recently, we engineered a tunable rhamnose promoter-based setup for the production of recombinant proteins in E. coli. This setup enabled us to show that being able to precisely set the production rate of a secretory recombinant protein is critical to enhance protein production yields in the periplasm. It is assumed that precisely setting the production rate of a secretory recombinant protein is required to harmonize its production rate with the protein translocation capacity of the cell. Here, using proteome analysis we show that enhancing periplasmic production of human Growth Hormone (hGH) using the tunable rhamnose promoter-based setup is accompanied by increased accumulation levels of at least three key players in protein translocation; the peripheral motor of the Sec-translocon (SecA), leader peptidase (LepB), and the cytoplasmic membrane protein integrase/chaperone (YidC). Thus, enhancing periplasmic hGH production leads to increased Sec-translocon capacity, increased capacity to cleave signal peptides from secretory proteins and an increased capacity of an alternative membrane protein biogenesis pathway, which frees up Sec-translocon capacity for protein secretion. When cells with enhanced periplasmic hGH production yields were harvested and subsequently cultured in the absence of inducer, SecA, LepB, and YidC levels went down again. This indicates that when using the tunable rhamnose-promoter system to enhance the production of a protein in the periplasm, E. coli can adapt its protein translocation machinery for enhanced recombinant protein production in the periplasm.
PXD017134	32064518	A genetic analysis reveals novel histone residues required for transcriptional reprogramming upon stress. 	A genetic analysis reveals novel histone residues required for transcriptional reprogramming upon stress	PTMs, histone, phosphoproteomics	Cells have the ability to sense, respond and adapt to environmental fluctuations. Stress causes a massive reorganization of the transcriptional program. Many examples of histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) have been associated with transcriptional activation or repression under steady-state growth conditions. Comparatively less is known about the role of histone PTMs in the cellular adaptive response to stress. Here, we performed high-throughput genetic screenings that provide a novel global map of the histone residues required for transcriptional reprogramming in response to heat and osmotic stress. Of note, we observed that the histone residues needed depend on the type of gene and/or stress, thereby suggesting a 'personalized', rather than general, subset of histone requirements for each chromatin context. In addition, we identified a number of new residues that unexpectedly serve to regulate transcription. As a proof of concept, we characterized the function of the histone residues H4-S47 and H4-T30 in response to osmotic and heat stress, respectively. Our results uncover novel roles for the kinases Cla4 and Ste20, yeast homologs of the mammalian PAK2 family, and the Ste11 MAPK as regulators of H4-S47 and H4-T30, respectively. This study provides new insights into the role of histone residues in transcriptional regulation under stress conditions.
PXD009325	32066653	Increased plasma CD14 levels 1 year postpartum in women with pre-eclampsia during pregnancy: a case-control plasma proteomics study. 	Plasma proteomic profiling one year post-delivery of women with pre-eclampsia	LC-MS, TMT, plasma proteomics, preeclampsia	Epidemiological data suggest that pre-eclampsia (PE) is associated with an increased risk of post-delivery metabolic dysregulation. The aim of the present case-control observational study was to examine the global plasma proteomic profile 1 year postpartum in women who developed PE during pregnancy (n = 5) compared to controls (n = 5), in order to identify a novel predictive marker linking PE with long-term metabolic imbalance. Key findings were verified with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in a separate cohort (n = 17 women with PE and n = 43 controls). One hundred and seventy-two proteins were differentially expressed in the PE vs. control groups. Gene ontology analysis showed that Inflammatory|Immune responses, Blood coagulation and Metabolism were significantly enriched terms. CD14, mapping to the inflammatory response protein network, was selected for verification based on bibliographic evidence. ELISA measurements showed CD14 to be significantly increased 1 year postpartum in women with PE during pregnancy compared to controls [PE group (median +/- SD): 296.5 +/- 113.6; control group (median +/- SD): 128.9 +/- 98.5; Mann-Whitney U test p = 0.0078]. Overall, the identified proteins could provide insight into the long-term disease risk among women with PE during pregnancy and highlight the need for their postpartum monitoring. CD14 could be examined in larger cohorts as a predictive marker of insulin resistance and type II diabetes mellitus among women with PE.
PXD016308	32066737	A computational platform for high-throughput analysis of RNA sequences and modifications by mass spectrometry. 	MS-based analysis of enzymatic methylation of an in vitro-transcribed lncRNA	5-methylcytidine, NME1, RNA, epitranscriptomics, lncRNA, m5C	The field of epitranscriptomics continues to reveal how post-transcriptional modification of RNA affects a wide variety of biological phenomena. A pivotal challenge in this area is the identification of modified RNA residues within their sequence contexts. Mass spectrometry (MS) offers a comprehensive solution by using analogous approaches to shotgun proteomics. However, software support for the analysis of RNA MS data is inadequate at present and does not allow high-throughput processing. Existing software solutions lack the raw performance and statistical grounding to efficiently handle the numerous modifications found on RNA. We present a free and open-source database search engine for RNA MS data, called NucleicAcidSearchEngine (NASE), that addresses these shortcomings. We demonstrate the capability of NASE to reliably identify a wide range of modified RNA sequences in four original datasets of varying complexity. In human tRNA, we characterize over 20 different modification types simultaneously and find many cases of incomplete modification.
PXD017020	32066963	FANCD2-FANCI is a clamp stabilized on DNA by monoubiquitination of FANCD2 during DNA repair. 	Crosslinking mass spectrometry (CLMS) analysis of monoubiquitinated FANCD2-FANCI complex	FANCD2-FANCI comple, crosslinking mass spectrometry, fanconi anemia pathway, monoubiquitination	Vertebrate DNA crosslink repair excises toxic replication-blocking DNA crosslinks. Numerous factors involved in crosslink repair have been identified, and mutations in their corresponding genes cause Fanconi anemia (FA). A key step in crosslink repair is monoubiquitination of the FANCD2-FANCI heterodimer, which then recruits nucleases to remove the DNA lesion. Here, we use cryo-EM to determine the structures of recombinant chicken FANCD2 and FANCI complexes. FANCD2-FANCI adopts a closed conformation when the FANCD2 subunit is monoubiquitinated, creating a channel that encloses double-stranded DNA (dsDNA). Ubiquitin is positioned at the interface of FANCD2 and FANCI, where it acts as a covalent molecular pin to trap the complex on DNA. In contrast, isolated FANCD2 is a homodimer that is unable to bind DNA, suggestive of an autoinhibitory mechanism that prevents premature activation. Together, our work suggests that FANCD2-FANCI is a clamp that is locked onto DNA by ubiquitin, with distinct interfaces that may recruit other DNA repair factors.
PXD016597	32068400	Dissolving Peptides in 0.1% Formic Acid Brings Risk of Artificial Formylation. 	Peptide artificial formylation in bottom-up proteomics analyses	Artificial modifications, Bottom-up proteomics, Formic acid, Peptide formylation, Peptide formylationArtificial modifications	The ability of concentrated formic acid to formylate reactive amino acid residues is known from previous reports. In contrast, solvents containing a low concentration of formic acid are generally recognized as a safe environment for proteomic applications. The primary objective of this study was to explain the excessive formylation rate in tryptic peptides that did not come into contact with concentrated formic acid. We found out that the peptide formylation was associated with dissolving the peptides in a solvent containing mere 0.1% formic acid. Similar conclusions were drawn after analyzing publicly available proteomic data. We further demonstrated that these unwanted modifications can be averted via handling the samples at a low temperature or, obviously, via replacing formic acid in the solvent with trifluoroacetic acid. These simple countermeasures can contribute to a reduction in the part of the MS/MS spectra that remain unassigned to a peptide sequence.
PXD014273	32068530	Candida albicans increases the pathogenicity of Staphylococcus aureus during polymicrobial infection of Galleria mellonella larvae. 	Response of Galleria to co-infection by Candida and Staphylococcus.	Candida, Galleria, Immunity, Infection, Mini-model, Staphylococcus, co-infection. Anti-microbial	This study detailed the responses of Galleria mellonella larvae to disseminated infection caused by co-infection with Candida albicans and Staphylococcus aureus. Doses of C. albicans (1x10(5) larva(-1)) and S. aureus (1x10(4) larva(-1)) were non-lethal in mono-infection but when combined significantly (P<0.05) reduced larval survival at 24, 48 and 72 h relative to larvae receiving S. aureus (2x10(4) larva(-1)) alone. Co-infected larvae displayed a significantly higher density of S. aureus larva(-1) compared to larvae infected solely with S. aureus. Co-infection resulted in dissemination throughout the host and the appearance of large nodules. Co-infection of larvae with C. albicans and S. aureus (2x10(4) larva(-1)) resulted in an increase in the density of circulating haemocytes compared to that in larvae infected with only S. aureus. Proteomic analysis of co-infected larval haemolymph revealed increased abundance of proteins associated with immune responses to bacterial and fungal infection such as cecropin-A (+45.4-fold), recognition proteins [e.g. peptidoglycan-recognition protein LB (+14-fold)] and proteins associated with nodule formation [e.g. Hdd11 (+33.3-fold)]. A range of proteins were also decreased in abundance following co-infection, including apolipophorin (-62.4-fold), alpha-esterase 45 (-7.7-fold) and serine proteinase (-6.2-fold). Co-infection of larvae resulted in enhanced proliferation of S. aureus compared to mono-infection and an immune response showing many similarities to the innate immune response of mammals to infection. The utility of G. mellonella larvae for studying polymicrobial infection is highlighted.
PXD016339	32068945	Germ-free and microbiota-associated mice yield small intestinal epithelial organoids with equivalent and robust transcriptome/proteome expression phenotypes. 	An Integrative Transcriptome - Proteome Approach Reveals a Robust Expression Pattern of Small Intestinal Epithelial Organoids from Germ-Free and Microbiota Associated Donors	5600, Intestinal Epithelial Organoids, SWATH	Intestinal epithelial organoids established from gut tissue have become a widely used research tool. However, it remains unclear how environmental cues, divergent microbiota composition and other sources of variation before, during and after establishment confound organoid properties, and how these properties relate to the original tissue. While environmental influences cannot be easily addressed in human organoids, mice offer a controlled assay-system. Here, we probed the effect of donor microbiota differences, previously identified as a confounding factor in murine in vivo studies, on organoids. We analysed the proteomes and transcriptomes of primary organoid cultures established from two colonised and one germ-free mouse colony of C57BL/6J genetic background, and compared them to their tissue of origin and commonly used cell lines. While an imprint of microbiota-exposure was observed on the proteome of epithelial samples, the long-term global impact of donor microbiota on organoid expression patterns was negligible. Instead, stochastic culture-to-culture differences accounted for a moderate variability between independently established organoids. Integration of transcriptome and proteome datasets revealed an organoid-typic expression signature comprising 14 transcripts and 10 proteins that distinguished organoids across all donors from murine epithelial cell lines and fibroblasts and closely mimicked expression patterns in the gut epithelium. This included the inflammasome components ASC, Naip1-6, Nlrc4 and Caspase-1, which were highly expressed in all organoids compared to the reference cell line m-ICc12 or mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Taken together, these results reveal that the donor microbiota has little effect on the organoid phenotype and suggest that organoids represent a more suitable culture model than immortalised cell lines, in particular for studies of intestinal epithelial inflammasomes.
PXD015407	32069036	Antibody-Free Multiplex Measurement of 23 Human Cytokines in Primary Cell Culture Secretome Using Targeted Mass Spectrometry. 	Antibody-free multiplex measurement of 23 human cytokines in primary cell culture secretome using targeted multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry	Cytokine, Secretome	Cytokines are commonly measured by immunoassays; however, these have limited multiplexing capacity, are costly, and can exhibit cross-reactivity. Multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mass spectrometry is a robust method to quantify analytes with high specificity and multiplexing ability, hence we aimed to investigate its suitability as an alternative cost-effective method for cytokine measurement. Human keratinocyte conditioned media spiked with recombinant cytokines was used as an experimental system to evaluate sensitivity, linearity, and reproducibility of an MRM assay targeting 79 peptides representing 23 human cytokines. Our MRM method was able to identify 21 cytokines by two or more unique peptides and two cytokines by a single unique peptide. In a serum-free matrix, the median LOD and LOQ for cytokine peptides was 130 and 433 pg/mL, respectively. The presence of serum increased median LOD and LOQ by about 2.3-fold. The assay shows excellent replicate consistency with 8% intra- and 12% interday coefficient of variations. We found high pH reversed-phase fractionation a useful tool to increase assay sensitivity with the drawback of increasing its variability by approximately 10%. Overall, our results suggest utility of a multiplex cytokine MRM for routine measurement of secreted cytokines in cellular experiments under low serum conditions. Additional enrichment steps will be required in high complexity matrices such as serum.
PXD010913	32070333	Proteome interrogation using gold nanoprobes to identify targets of arctigenin in fish parasites. 	Integrated transcriptomics and proteomics analyses reveal anthelmintic mechanism of arctigenin against Gyrodactylus kobayashii	Gyrodactylus, arctigenin, iTRAQ, target	Gold nanoparticles (GNPs) are one of the most widely used nanomaterials in various fields. Especially, the unique chemical and physical properties make them as the promising candidates in drug target identification, unfortunately, little is known about their application in parasites. In this paper, GNPs were employed as new solid support to identify drug targets of natural bioactive compound arctigenin (ARG) against fish monogenean parasite Gyrodactylus kobayashi. Before target identification, GNPs with ARG on the surface showed the ability to enter the live parasites even the nucleus or mitochondria, which made the bound compounds capable of contacting directly with target proteins located anywhere of the parasites. At the same time, chemically modified compound remained the anthelminthic efficacy against G. kobayashii. The above results both provide assurance on the reliability of using GNPs for drug target-binding specificity. Subsequently, by interrogating the cellular proteome in parasite lysate, myosin-2 and UNC-89 were identified as the potential direct target proteins of ARG in G. kobayashii. Moreover, results of RNA-seq transcriptomics and iTRAQ proteomics indicated that myosin-2 expressions were down-regulated after ARG bath treatment both in transcript and protein levels, but for UNC-89, only in mRNA level. Myosin-2 is an important structural muscle protein expressed in helminth tegument and its identification as our target will enable further inhibitor optimization towards future drug discovery. Furthermore, our findings demonstrate the power of GNPs to be readily applied to other parasite drugs of unknown targets, facilitating more broadly therapeutic drug design in any pathogen or disease model.
PXD016102	32071079	Phosphoproteome and drug-response effects mediated by the three protein phosphatase 2A inhibitor proteins CIP2A, SET, and PME-1. 	HeLa phosphoproteome regulated by PP2A related proteins	HeLa, Mascot, PP2A, Q Exactive, Simulated phosphopeptides, SpectraST, TiO2	Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) critically regulates cell signaling and is a human tumor suppressor. PP2A complexes are modulated by proteins such as cancerous inhibitor of protein phosphatase 2A (CIP2A), protein phosphatase methylesterase 1 (PME-1), and SET nuclear proto-oncogene (SET) that often are deregulated in cancers. However, how they impact cellular phosphorylation and how redundant they are in cellular regulation is poorly understood. Here, we conducted a systematic phosphoproteomics screen for phosphotargets modulated by siRNA-mediated depletion of CIP2A, PME-1, and SET (to reactivate PP2A) or the scaffolding A-subunit of PP2A (PPP2R1A) (to inhibit PP2A) in HeLa cells. We identified PP2A-modulated targets in diverse cellular pathways, including kinase signaling, cytoskeleton, RNA splicing, DNA repair, and nuclear lamina. The results indicate nonredundancy among CIP2A, PME-1, and SET in phosphotarget regulation. Notably, PP2A inhibition or reactivation affected largely distinct phosphopeptides, introducing a concept of nonoverlapping phosphatase inhibition- and activation-responsive sites (PIRS and PARS, respectively). This phenomenon is explained by the PPP2R1A inhibition impacting primarily dephosphorylated threonines, whereas PP2A reactivation results in dephosphorylation of clustered and acidophilic sites. Using comprehensive drug-sensitivity screening in PP2A-modulated cells to evaluate the functional impact of PP2A across diverse cellular pathways targeted by these drugs, we found that consistent with global phosphoproteome effects, PP2A modulations broadly affect responses to more than 200 drugs inhibiting a broad spectrum of cancer-relevant targets. These findings advance our understanding of the phosphoproteins, pharmacological responses, and cellular processes regulated by PP2A modulation and may enable the development of combination therapies.
PXD015568	32071085	Structural insights into the main S-layer unit of Deinococcus radiodurans reveal a massive protein complex with porin-like features. 	Insights on the S-layer Deinoxanthin Binding Complex of Deinococcus radiodurans, a massive protein complex with a porin-like structure and function	Deinococcus radiodurans, S-layer, porin, protein complex	In the extremophile bacterium Deinococcus radiodurans, the outermost surface layer is tightly connected with the rest of the cell wall. This integrated organization provides a compact structure that shields the bacterium against environmental stresses. The fundamental unit of this surface layer (S-layer) is the S-layer deinoxanthin-binding complex (SDBC), which binds the carotenoid deinoxanthin and provides both, thermostability and UV radiation resistance. However, the structural organization of the SDBC awaits elucidation. Here, we report the isolation of the SDBC with a gentle procedure consisting of lysozyme treatment and solubilization with the nonionic detergent n-dodecyl-beta-d-maltoside, which preserved both hydrophilic and hydrophobic components of the SDBC and allows the retention of several minor subunits. As observed by low-resolution single-particle analysis, we show that the complex possesses a porin-like structural organization, but is larger than other known porins. We also noted that the main SDBC component, the protein DR_2577, shares regions of similarity with known porins. Moreover, results from electrophysiological assays with membrane-reconstituted SDBC disclosed that it is a nonselective channel that has some peculiar gating properties, but also exhibits behavior typically observed in pore-forming proteins, such as porins and ionic transporters. The functional properties of this system and its porin-like organization provide information critical for understanding ion permeability through the outer cell surface of S-layer-carrying bacterial species.
PXD017230	32071087	Histone deacetylase 3 preferentially binds and collaborates with the transcription factor RUNX1 to repress AML1-ETO-dependent transcription in t(8;21) AML. 	HDAC3 preferentially binds to RUNX1 in t(8;21) AML cells and collaborates with RUNX1 to repress AML1-ETO-mediated transcriptional activation	21) translocation, AML, HDAC3, RUNX1, leukemia, t(8	In up to 15% of acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs), a recurring chromosomal translocation, termed t(8;21), generates the AML1-eight-twenty-one (ETO) leukemia fusion protein, which contains the DNA-binding domain of Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and almost all of ETO. RUNX1 and the AML1-ETO fusion protein are coexpressed in t(8;21) AML cells and antagonize each other's gene-regulatory functions. AML1-ETO represses transcription of RUNX1 target genes by competitively displacing RUNX1 and recruiting corepressors such as histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3). Recent studies have shown that AML1-ETO and RUNX1 co-occupy the binding sites of AML1-ETO-activated genes. How this joined binding allows RUNX1 to antagonize AML1-ETO-mediated transcriptional activation is unclear. Here we show that RUNX1 functions as a bona fide repressor of transcription activated by AML1-ETO. Mechanistically, we show that RUNX1 is a component of the HDAC3 corepressor complex and that HDAC3 preferentially binds to RUNX1 rather than to AML1-ETO in t(8;21) AML cells. Studying the regulation of interleukin-8 (IL8), a newly identified AML1-ETO-activated gene, we demonstrate that RUNX1 and HDAC3 collaboratively repress AML1-ETO-dependent transcription, a finding further supported by results of genome-wide analyses of AML1-ETO-activated genes. These and other results from the genome-wide studies also have important implications for the mechanistic understanding of gene-specific coactivator and corepressor functions across the AML1-ETO/RUNX1 cistrome.
PXD016192	32071147	Tandem Mass Tag Approach Utilizing Pervanadate BOOST Channels Delivers Deeper Quantitative Characterization of the Tyrosine Phosphoproteome. 	Tandem Mass Tag approach utilizing pervanadate BOOST channels delivers deeper quantitative characterization of the tyrosine phosphoproteome	Tandem mass tags, pervanadate, phosphotyrosine proteomics, superbinder, trigger channel	Dynamic tyrosine phosphorylation is fundamental to a myriad of cellular processes. However, the inherently low abundance of tyrosine phosphorylation in the proteome and the inefficient enrichment of phosphotyrosine(pTyr)-containing peptides has led to poor pTyr peptide identification and quantitation, critically hindering researchers' ability to elucidate signaling pathways regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation in systems where cellular material is limited. The most popular approaches to wide-scale characterization of the tyrosine phosphoproteome use pTyr enrichment with pan-specific, anti-pTyr antibodies from a large amount of starting material. Methods that decrease the amount of starting material and increase the characterization depth of the tyrosine phosphoproteome while maintaining quantitative accuracy and precision would enable the discovery of tyrosine phosphorylation networks in rarer cell populations. To achieve these goals, the BOOST (Broad-spectrum Optimization Of Selective Triggering) method leveraging the multiplexing capability of tandem mass tags (TMT) and the use of pervanadate (PV) boost channels (cells treated with the broad-spectrum tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor PV) selectively increased the relative abundance of pTyr-containing peptides. After PV boost channels facilitated selective fragmentation of pTyr-containing peptides, TMT reporter ions delivered accurate quantitation of each peptide for the experimental samples while the quantitation from PV boost channels was ignored. This method yielded up to 6.3-fold boost in pTyr quantification depth of statistically significant data derived from contrived ratios, compared with TMT without PV boost channels or intensity-based label-free (LF) quantitation while maintaining quantitative accuracy and precision, allowing quantitation of over 2300 unique pTyr peptides from only 1 mg of T cell receptor-stimulated Jurkat T cells. The BOOST strategy can potentially be applied in analyses of other post-translational modifications where treatments that broadly elevate the levels of those modifications across the proteome are available.
PXD015849	32071169	Functional proteomics interrogation of the kinome identifies MRCKA as a therapeutic target in high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma. 	Identification of MRCKA as an integral component of ovarian cancer signaling and a therapeutic target	CDC42BPA, High Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma, MRCKA	High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) is the most lethal gynecological cancer with few effective, targeted therapies. HGSOC tumors exhibit genomic instability with frequent alterations in the protein kinome; however, only a small fraction of the kinome has been therapeutically targeted in HGSOC. Using multiplexed inhibitor beads and mass spectrometry, we mapped the kinome landscape of HGSOC tumors from patients and patient-derived xenograft models. The data revealed a prevalent signature consisting of established HGSOC driver kinases, as well as several kinases previously unexplored in HGSOC. Loss-of-function analysis of these kinases in HGSOC cells indicated MRCKA (also known as CDC42BPA) as a putative therapeutic target. Characterization of the effects of MRCKA knockdown in established HGSOC cell lines demonstrated that MRCKA was integral to signaling that regulated the cell cycle checkpoint, focal adhesion, and actin remodeling, as well as cell migration, proliferation, and survival. Moreover, inhibition of MRCKA using the small-molecule BDP9066 decreased cell proliferation and spheroid formation and induced apoptosis in HGSOC cells, suggesting that MRCKA may be a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of HGSOC.
PXD015067	32071270	Metagenomic and Metaproteomic Insights into Photoautotrophic and Heterotrophic Interactions in a Synechococcus Culture. 	Meta-genomic and -proteomic insights into photoautotrophic and heterotrophic interactions in a Synechococcus culture	Exoproteome, Metaproteome, Synechococcus culture	Microbial photoautotroph-heterotroph interactions underlie marine food webs and shape ecosystem diversity and structure in upper ocean environments. Here, bacterial community composition, lifestyle preference, and genomic- and proteomic-level metabolic characteristics were investigated for an open ocean Synechococcus ecotype and its associated heterotrophs over 91 days of cocultivation. The associated heterotrophic bacterial assembly mostly constituted five classes, including Flavobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Phycisphaerae, Gammaproteobacteria, and Alphaproteobacteria The seven most abundant taxa/genera comprised >90% of the total heterotrophic bacterial community, and five of these displayed distinct lifestyle preferences (free-living or attached) and responses to Synechococcus growth phases. Six high-quality genomes, including Synechococcus and the five dominant heterotrophic bacteria, were reconstructed. The only primary producer of the coculture system, Synechococcus, displayed metabolic processes primarily involved in inorganic nutrient uptake, photosynthesis, and organic matter biosynthesis and release. Two of the flavobacterial populations, Muricauda and Winogradskyella, and an SM1A02 population, displayed preferences for initial degradation of complex compounds and biopolymers, as evinced by high abundances of TonB-dependent transporters (TBDTs), glycoside hydrolase, and peptidase proteins. Polysaccharide utilization loci present in the flavobacterial genomes influence their lifestyle preferences and close associations with phytoplankton. In contrast, the alphaproteobacterium Oricola sp. population mainly utilized low-molecular-weight dissolved organic carbon (DOC) through ATP-binding cassette (ABC), tripartite ATP-independent periplasmic (TRAP), and tripartite tricarboxylate transporter (TTT) transport systems. The heterotrophic bacterial populations exhibited complementary mechanisms for degrading Synechococcus-derived organic matter and driving nutrient cycling. In addition to nutrient exchange, removal of reactive oxygen species and vitamin trafficking might also contribute to the maintenance of the Synechococcus-heterotroph coculture system and the interactions shaping the system.IMPORTANCE The high complexity of in situ ecosystems renders it difficult to study marine microbial photoautotroph-heterotroph interactions. Two-member coculture systems of picocyanobacteria and single heterotrophic bacterial strains have been thoroughly investigated. However, in situ interactions comprise far more diverse heterotrophic bacterial associations with single photoautotrophic organisms. In the present study, combined metagenomic and metaproteomic data supplied the metabolic potentials and activities of uncultured dominant bacterial populations in the coculture system. The results of this study shed light on the nature of interactions between photoautotrophs and heterotrophs, improving our understanding of the complexity of in situ environments.
PXD016436	32071994	Dataset on proteomic changes of whey protein after different heat treatment. 	Proteomic changes of whey proteins after heating at different temperatures	Milk, heat treatment, pasteurization, whey protein	Hereby we provide data from a shot-gun proteomics experiment, using filtered-aided sample preparation (FASP), and liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), to relatively quantify the changes in the protein profile of whey proteins after heating milk at either 65 degreesC, 70 degreesC, 75 degreesC, 80 degreesC, or 85 degreesC for 30 min. The data supplied in this article supports the accompanying publication [1]. The raw mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier "PXD016436".
PXD015263	32072194	Proteomic analysis of the antimicrobial effects of sublethal concentrations of thymol on Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. 	Proteomic analysis of the antimicrobial effects of sublethal concentrations of thymol on S. Typhimurium	Function Annotation analysis, Function Enrichment analysis, SWATH, differential expression analysis	Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium is an important foodborne pathogen that causes serious and extensive food contamination as well as disease and death worldwide. Considering the increasing severity of antibiotic resistance, antibiotic alternatives are urgently needed. As a natural biocide and a component of some essential oils from herbs, thymol is capable of killing various bacteria through a potentially unique mechanism, although the targets of thymol have not been completely elucidated. In this study, the variation in the whole proteome of Salmonella after thymol stress was evaluated using the SWATH multiplex technique. The strain Salmonella Typhimurium CVCC541 was treated with a sublethal concentration (75 mug/mL) of thymol, which rapidly increased the permeability of bacterial membranes at the tested concentration. Thymol destroyed the integrity of the bacterial membrane, as observed by transmission electron microscopy. The proteomes of the treated and untreated cells were characterized after an 8-h treatment. The proteomic analysis of thymol-treated cells indicated that 144 proteins exhibited upregulation or downregulation compared with the control cells, particularly those involved in cellular structure and metabolism. The results of this study showed that thymol may play an antimicrobial role in altering the membrane permeability, virulence change, and antioxidant response of Salmonella Typhimurium. The results of the present study provide an improved understanding of the proteomic response of Salmonella Typhimurium to thymol stress, including the identification of promising targets for the future exploration of innovative approaches to control Salmonella Typhimurium.
PXD014400	32075773	Chaperone-Facilitated Aggregation of Thermo-Sensitive Proteins Shields Them from Degradation during Heat Stress. 	Insoluble fraction_Heat stress_S.pombe LC-MSMS	Aggregates, Heat stress, Insoluble protein, S. pombe	Cells have developed protein quality-control strategies to manage the accumulation of misfolded substrates during heat stress. Using a soluble reporter of misfolding in fission yeast, Rho1.C17R-GFP, we demonstrate that upon mild heat shock, the reporter collapses in protein aggregate centers (PACs). They contain and/or require several chaperones, such as Hsp104, Hsp16, and the Hsp40/70 couple Mas5/Ssa2. Stress granules do not assemble at mild temperatures and, therefore, are not required for PAC formation; on the contrary, PACs may serve as nucleation centers for the assembly of stress granules. In contrast to the general belief, the dominant fate of these PACs is not degradation, and the aggregated reporter can be disassembled by chaperones and recovers native structure and activity. Using mass spectrometry, we show that thermo-unstable endogenous proteins form PACs as well. In conclusion, formation of PACs during heat shock is a chaperone-mediated adaptation strategy.
PXD004430	32075873	The Secretome Profiling of a Pediatric Airway Epithelium Infected with hRSV Identified Aberrant Apical/Basolateral Trafficking and Novel Immune Modulating (CXCL6, CXCL16, CSF3) and Antiviral (CEACAM1) Proteins. 	Secretome profiling of human airway epithelial cultures infected with respiratory syncytial virus	Human respiratory syncytial virus, human airway epithelial model, secretome	The respiratory epithelium comprises polarized cells at the interface between the environment and airway tissues. Polarized apical and basolateral protein secretions are a feature of airway epithelium homeostasis. Human respiratory syncytial virus (hRSV) is a major human pathogen that primarily targets the respiratory epithelium. However, the consequences of hRSV infection on epithelium secretome polarity and content remain poorly understood. To investigate the hRSV-associated apical and basolateral secretomes, a proteomics approach was combined with an ex vivo pediatric human airway epithelial (HAE) model of hRSV infection (data are available via ProteomeXchange and can be accessed at https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/ with identifier PXD013661). Following infection, a skewing of apical/basolateral abundance ratios was identified for several individual proteins. Novel modulators of neutrophil and lymphocyte activation (CXCL6, CSF3, SECTM1 or CXCL16), and antiviral proteins (BST2 or CEACAM1) were detected in infected, but not in uninfected cultures. Importantly, CXCL6, CXCL16, CSF3 were also detected in nasopharyngeal aspirates (NPA) from hRSV-infected infants but not healthy controls. Furthermore, the antiviral activity of CEACAM1 against RSV was confirmed in vitro using BEAS-2B cells. hRSV infection disrupted the polarity of the pediatric respiratory epithelial secretome and was associated with immune modulating proteins (CXCL6, CXCL16, CSF3) never linked with this virus before. In addition, the antiviral activity of CEACAM1 against hRSV had also never been previously characterized. This study, therefore, provides novel insights into RSV pathogenesis and endogenous antiviral responses in pediatric airway epithelium.
PXD016383	32075880	Coimmunoprecipitation with MYR1 Identifies Three Additional Proteins within the Toxoplasma gondii Parasitophorous Vacuole Required for Translocation of Dense Granule Effectors into Host Cells. 	Toxoplasma MYR1 Immunoprecipitations	MYR1, Toxoplasma	Toxoplasma gondii is a ubiquitous, intracellular protozoan that extensively modifies infected host cells through secreted effector proteins. Many such effectors must be translocated across the parasitophorous vacuole (PV), in which the parasites replicate, ultimately ending up in the host cytosol or nucleus. This translocation has previously been shown to be dependent on five parasite proteins: MYR1, MYR2, MYR3, ROP17, and ASP5. We report here the identification of several MYR1-interacting and novel PV-localized proteins via affinity purification of MYR1, including TGGT1_211460 (dubbed MYR4), TGGT1_204340 (dubbed GRA54), and TGGT1_270320 (PPM3C). Further, we show that three of the MYR1-interacting proteins, GRA44, GRA45, and MYR4, are essential for the translocation of the Toxoplasma effector protein GRA16 and for the upregulation of human c-Myc and cyclin E1 in infected cells. GRA44 and GRA45 contain ASP5 processing motifs, but like MYR1, processing at these sites appears to be nonessential for their role in protein translocation. These results expand our understanding of the mechanism of effector translocation in Toxoplasma and indicate that the process is highly complex and dependent on at least eight discrete proteins.IMPORTANCEToxoplasma is an extremely successful intracellular parasite and important human pathogen. Upon infection of a new cell, Toxoplasma establishes a replicative vacuole and translocates parasite effectors across this vacuole to function from the host cytosol and nucleus. These effectors play a key role in parasite virulence. The work reported here newly identifies three parasite proteins that are necessary for protein translocation into the host cell. These results significantly increase our knowledge of the molecular players involved in protein translocation in Toxoplasma-infected cells and provide additional potential drug targets.
PXD017424	32076265	gammadelta T cells and adipocyte IL-17RC control fat innervation and thermogenesis. 	T cells and adipocyte IL-17RC control fat innervation and thermogenesis	Murine Brown Adipose Tissue, TMT based quantitative proteomics	The sympathetic nervous system innervates peripheral organs to regulate their function and maintain homeostasis, whereas target cells also produce neurotrophic factors to promote sympathetic innervation(1,2). The molecular basis of this bi-directional communication remains to be fully determined. Here we use thermogenic adipose tissue from mice as a model system to show that T cells, specifically gammadelta T cells, have a crucial role in promoting sympathetic innervation, at least in part by driving the expression of TGFbeta1 in parenchymal cells via the IL-17 receptor C (IL-17RC). Ablation of IL-17RC specifically in adipose tissue reduces expression of TGFbeta1 in adipocytes, impairs local sympathetic innervation and causes obesity and other metabolic phenotypes that are consistent with defective thermogenesis; innervation can be fully rescued by restoring TGFbeta1 expression. Ablating gammadelta Tau cells and the IL-17RC signalling pathway also impairs sympathetic innervation in other tissues such as salivary glands. These findings demonstrate coordination between T cells and parenchymal cells to regulate sympathetic innervation.
PXD015669	32077687	DirectMS1: MS/MS-Free Identification of 1000 Proteins of Cellular Proteomes in 5 Minutes. 	DirectMS1: MS/MS-free identification of 1000 proteins of cellular proteomes in 5 minutes	DDA, HeLa, MS1-only, Protein Identification, QExactive HF	Proteome characterization relies heavily on tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) and is thus associated with instrumentation complexity, lengthy analysis time, and limited duty cycle. It was always tempting to implement approaches that do not require MS/MS, yet they were constantly failing to achieve a meaningful depth of quantitative proteome coverage within short experimental times, which is particularly important for clinical or biomarker-discovery applications. Here, we report on the first successful attempt to develop a truly MS/MS-free method, DirectMS1, for bottom-up proteomics. The method is compared with the standard MS/MS-based data-dependent acquisition approach for proteome-wide analysis using 5 min LC gradients. Specifically, we demonstrate identification of 1 000 protein groups for a standard HeLa cell line digest. The amount of loaded sample was varied in a range from 1 to 500 ng, and the method demonstrated 10-fold higher sensitivity. Combined with the recently introduced Diffacto approach for relative protein quantification, DirectMS1 outperforms most popular MS/MS-based label-free quantitation approaches because of significantly higher protein sequence coverage.
PXD014625	32078678	Pro-inflammatory activation following demyelination is required for myelin clearance and oligodendrogenesis. 	Pro-inflammatory activity following demyelinating injury is required for phagocytic function and oligodendrocyte formation	Microglia, Myd88, myelin	Remyelination requires innate immune system function, but how exactly microglia and macrophages clear myelin debris after injury and tailor a specific regenerative response is unclear. Here, we asked whether pro-inflammatory microglial/macrophage activation is required for this process. We established a novel toxin-based spinal cord model of de- and remyelination in zebrafish and showed that pro-inflammatory NF-kappaB-dependent activation in phagocytes occurs rapidly after myelin injury. We found that the pro-inflammatory response depends on myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88). MyD88-deficient mice and zebrafish were not only impaired in the degradation of myelin debris, but also in initiating the generation of new oligodendrocytes for myelin repair. We identified reduced generation of TNF-alpha in lesions of MyD88-deficient animals, a pro-inflammatory molecule that was able to induce the generation of new premyelinating oligodendrocytes. Our study shows that pro-inflammatory phagocytic signaling is required for myelin debris degradation, for inflammation resolution, and for initiating the generation of new oligodendrocytes.
PXD016265	32079362	The Relevance of Thimet Oligopeptidase in the Regulation of Energy Metabolism and Diet-Induced Obesity. 	Intracellular peptides mediate phenotypic differences between wild type and thimet oligopeptidase null mice possibly through their binding to microRNAs	gene expression, insulin resistance, microRNA, obesity, overweight, peptidases, peptidome, proteases, proteasome, steatosis	Thimet oligopeptidase (EC 3.4.24.15; EP24.15; THOP1) is a potential therapeutic target, as it plays key biological functions in processing biologically functional peptides. The structural conformation of THOP1 provides a unique restriction regarding substrate size, in that it only hydrolyzes peptides (optimally, those ranging from eight to 12 amino acids) and not proteins. The proteasome activity of hydrolyzing proteins releases a large number of intracellular peptides, providing THOP1 substrates within cells. The present study aimed to investigate the possible function of THOP1 in the development of diet-induced obesity (DIO) and insulin resistance by utilizing a murine model of hyperlipidic DIO with both C57BL6 wild-type (WT) and THOP1 null (THOP1(-/-)) mice. After 24 weeks of being fed a hyperlipidic diet (HD), THOP1(-/-) and WT mice ingested similar chow and calories; however, the THOP1(-/-) mice gained 75% less body weight and showed neither insulin resistance nor non-alcoholic fatty liver steatosis when compared to WT mice. THOP1(-/-) mice had increased adrenergic-stimulated adipose tissue lipolysis as well as a balanced level of expression of genes and microRNAs associated with energy metabolism, adipogenesis, or inflammation. Altogether, these differences converge to a healthy phenotype of THOP1(-/-) fed a HD. The molecular mechanism that links THOP1 to energy metabolism is suggested herein to involve intracellular peptides, of which the relative levels were identified to change in the adipose tissue of WT and THOP1(-/-) mice. Intracellular peptides were observed by molecular modeling to interact with both pre-miR-143 and pre-miR-222, suggesting a possible novel regulatory mechanism for gene expression. Therefore, we successfully demonstrated the previously unanticipated relevance of THOP1 in energy metabolism regulation. It was suggested that intracellular peptides were responsible for mediating the phenotypic differences that are described herein by a yet unknown mechanism of action.
PXD016190	32079660	PTPN23 binds the dynein adaptor BICD1 and is required for endocytic sorting of neurotrophin receptors. 	PTPN23 is required for endocytic sorting of neurotrophin receptors via a BICD1- dependent mechanism	GeLC-MS, Interaction proteomics, MaxQuant, iBAQ	Signalling by target-derived neurotrophins is essential for the correct development of the nervous system and its maintenance throughout life. Several aspects concerning the lifecycle of neurotrophins and their receptors have been characterised over the years, including the formation, endocytosis and trafficking of signalling-competent ligand-receptor complexes. However, the molecular mechanisms directing the sorting of activated neurotrophin receptors are still elusive. Previously, our laboratory identified Bicaudal-D1 (BICD1), a dynein motor adaptor, as a key factor for lysosomal degradation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-activated TrkB (also known as NTRK2) and p75(NTR) (also known as NGFR) in motor neurons. Here, using a proteomics approach, we identified protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 23 (PTPN23), a member of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) machinery, in the BICD1 interactome. Molecular mapping revealed that PTPN23 is not a canonical BICD1 cargo; instead, PTPN23 binds the N-terminus of BICD1, which is also essential for the recruitment of cytoplasmic dynein. In line with the BICD1-knockdown phenotype, loss of PTPN23 leads to increased accumulation of BDNF-activated p75(NTR) and TrkB in swollen vacuole-like compartments, suggesting that neuronal PTPN23 is a novel regulator of the endocytic sorting of neurotrophin receptors.
PXD015642	32080624	Functional dissection of the retrograde Shiga toxin trafficking inhibitor Retro-2. 	Functional Dissection of the Retrograde Shiga Toxin Trafficking Inhibitor Retro-2	ER exit site, Retro-2, Sec16A, Shiga Toxin, Syntaxin5, retrograde transport	The retrograde transport inhibitor Retro-2 has a protective effect on cells and in mice against Shiga-like toxins and ricin. Retro-2 causes toxin accumulation in early endosomes and relocalization of the Golgi SNARE protein syntaxin-5 to the endoplasmic reticulum. The molecular mechanisms by which this is achieved remain unknown. Here, we show that Retro-2 targets the endoplasmic reticulum exit site component Sec16A, affecting anterograde transport of syntaxin-5 from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi. The formation of canonical SNARE complexes involving syntaxin-5 is not affected in Retro-2-treated cells. By contrast, the interaction of syntaxin-5 with a newly discovered binding partner, the retrograde trafficking chaperone GPP130, is abolished, and we show that GPP130 must indeed bind to syntaxin-5 to drive Shiga toxin transport from the endosomes to the Golgi. We therefore identify Sec16A as a druggable target and provide evidence for a non-SNARE function for syntaxin-5 in interaction with GPP130.
PXD017362	32081014	Hat1-Dependent Lysine Acetylation Targets Diverse Cellular Functions. 	Hat1 WT and Hat1 KO MEFs analyzed to identify sites of acetylation that are dependent on Hat1	Hat1, acetylome	Lysine acetylation has emerged as one of the most important post-translational modifications, regulating different biological processes. However, its regulation by lysine acetyltransferases is still unclear in most cases. Hat1 is a lysine acetyltransferase originally identified based on its ability to acetylate histones. Using an unbiased proteomics approach, we have determined how loss of Hat1 affects the mammalian acetylome. Hat1(+/+) and Hat1(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblast cell lines were grown in both glucose- and galactose-containing media, as Hat1 is required for growth on galactose, and Hat1(-/-) cells exhibit defects in mitochondrial function. Following trypsin digestion of whole cell extracts, acetylated peptides were enriched by acetyllysine affinity purification, and acetylated peptides were identified and analyzed by label-free quantitation. Comparison of the acetylome from Hat1(+/+) cells grown on galactose and glucose demonstrated that there are large carbon source-dependent changes in the mammalian acetylome where the acetylation of enzymes involved in glycolysis were the most affected. Comparisons of the acetylomes from Hat1(+/+) and Hat1(-/-) cells identified 65 proteins whose acetylation decreased by at least 2.5-fold in cells lacking Hat1. In Hat1(-/-) cells, acetylation of the autoregulatory loop of CBP (CREB-binding protein) was the most highly affected, decreasing by up to 20-fold. In addition to the proteins involved in chromatin structure, Hat1-dependent acetylation was also found in a number of transcriptional regulators, including p53 and mitochondrial proteins. Hat1 mitochondrial localization suggests that it may be directly involved in the acetylation of mitochondrial proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017362.
PXD017776	32081780	Tuning liposome composition to modulate corona formation in human serum and cellular uptake. 	Tuning Liposome Composition to Modulate the Corona Forming in Human Serum and Uptake by Cells	Human Proteome Project, Liposomes, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), cellular uptake, human serum, nanoparticle corona	Nano-sized objects such as liposomes are modified by adsorption of biomolecules in biological fluids. The resulting corona critically changes nanoparticle behavior at cellular level. A better control of corona composition could allow to modulate uptake by cells. Within this context, in this work, liposomes of different charge were prepared by mixing negatively charged and zwitterionic lipids to different ratios. The series obtained was used as a model system with tailored surface properties to modulate corona composition and determine the effects on liposome interactions with cells. Uptake efficiency and uptake kinetics of the different liposomes were determined by flow cytometry and fluorescence imaging. Particular care was taken in optimizing the methods to isolate the corona forming in human serum to prevent liposome agglomeration and to exclude residual free proteins, which could confuse the results. Thanks to the optimized methods, mass spectrometry of replicate corona isolations showed excellent reproducibility and this allowed semi-quantitative analysis to determine for each formulation the most abundant proteins in the corona. The results showed that by changing the fraction of zwitterionic and charged lipids in the bilayer, the amount and identity of the most abundant proteins adsorbed from serum differed. Interestingly, the formulations also showed very different uptake kinetics. Similar approaches can be used to tune lipid composition in a systematic way in order to obtain formulations with the desired corona and cell uptake behavior. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Liposomes and other nano-sized objects when introduced in biological fluids are known to adsorb biomolecules forming the so-called nanoparticle corona. This layer strongly affects the subsequent interactions of liposomes with cells. Here, by tuning lipid composition in a systematic way, a series of liposomes with tailored surface properties has been prepared to modulate the corona forming in human serum. Liposomes with very different cellular uptake kinetics have been obtained and their corona was identified in order to determine the most enriched proteins on the different formulations. By combining corona composition and uptake kinetics candidate corona proteins associated with reduced or increased uptake by cells can be identified and the liposome formulation can be tuned to obtain the desired uptake behavior.
PXD012953	32082487	Identification of molecular targets for the targeted treatment of gastric cancer using dasatinib. 	Dasatinib for the treatment of gastric cancer	Dasatinib, Gastric cancer, Kinobeads, Src kinases	Gastric cancer (GC) remains the third leading cause of cancer-related death despite several improvements in targeted therapy. There is therefore an urgent need to investigate new treatment strategies, including the identification of novel biomarkers for patient stratification. In this study, we evaluated the effect of FDA-approved kinase inhibitors on GC. Through a combination of cell growth, migration and invasion assays, we identified dasatinib as an efficient inhibitor of GC proliferation. Mass-spectrometry-based selectivity profiling and subsequent knockdown experiments identified members of the SRC family of kinases including SRC, FRK, LYN and YES, as well as other kinases such as DDR1, ABL2, SIK2, RIPK2, EPHA2, and EPHB2 as dasatinib targets. The expression levels of the identified kinases were investigated on RNA and protein level in 200 classified tumor samples from patients, who had undergone gastrectomy, but had received no treatment. Levels of FRK, DDR1 and SRC expression on both mRNA and protein level were significantly higher in metastatic patient samples regardless of the tumor stage, while expression levels of SIK2 correlated with tumor size. Collectively, our data suggest dasatinib for treatment of GC based on its unique property, inhibiting a small number of key kinases (SRC, FRK, DDR1 and SIK2), highly expressed in GC patients.
PXD016418	32085718	Immunoproteomic and mass spectrometric analysis of Eimeria acervulina antigens recognized by antisera from chickens infected with E. acervulina, E. tenella or E. necatrix. 	Identification of Eimeria sporozoite antigens of common immunogenicity	Eimeria, common immunoreactive antigens, sporozoite, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis	BACKGROUND: Coccidiosis is caused by Eimeria spp. and can result in severe economic losses to the global poultry industry. Due to anticoccidial drug resistance rapidly developing in the parasites and drug residues in poultry products, efficacious and safe alternative coccidia control measures are needed. The objective of the present study was to identify common protective antigens which may be used as vaccine candidates in the development of subunit, multivalent, cross-protective vaccines against most of the economically important Eimeria species. METHODS: Whole sporozoite proteins of Eimeria acervulina were prepared and analyzed by 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) followed by western blotting using immune sera specific to E. tenella, E. acervulina, or E. necatrix. The protein spots detected by all three immune sera were then excised from the preparative gel and protein ID was performed by MALDI-TOF-MS/MS. RESULTS: Approximately 620 E. acervulina sporozoite protein spots were demonstrated by 2-DE with silver staining, among which 23 protein spots were recognized by immune sera specific to all three Eimeria species. The results showed that 21 putative E. acervulina proteins were identified, which include proteins with known enzymatic properties, and those which are involved in protein translation, transport and trafficking, and ribosomal biogenesis and functions. There is one protein which may be involved in transcription and one heat-shock protein. Two proteins contain predicted domains, but with no apparent functions known. There were 2 protein spots which had no detectable proteins. None of the proteins has a predicted signal peptide or a transmembrane domain; however, 6 of the 21 putative proteins were predicted to be potentially secretory through the non-classical pathway. CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified a diverse group of antigens immunologically common to all three Eimeria species, none of which was previously characterized and tested as a vaccine candidate. Further research on immunogenicity and cross-protective potential of these individual proteins as vaccine candidates will aid the development of vaccines against the most common and pathogenic Eimeria spp.
PXD015177	32086375	Arginine in C9ORF72 Dipolypeptides Mediates Promiscuous Proteome Binding and Multiple Modes of Toxicity. 	Arginine valency in C9ORF72 dipolypeptides mediates promiscuous proteome  binding that transmits multiple modes of toxicity	ABCE1, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), PRMT1, PRMT5, RAN-translation, methylosome, protein aggregation, proteotoxicity	C9ORF72-associated Motor Neuron Disease patients feature abnormal expression of 5 dipeptide repeat (DPR) polymers. Here we used quantitative proteomics in a mouse neuronal-like cell line (Neuro2a) to demonstrate that the Arg residues in the most toxic DPRS, PR and GR, leads to a promiscuous binding to the proteome compared with a relative sparse binding of the more inert AP and GA. Notable targets included ribosomal proteins, translation initiation factors and translation elongation factors. PR and GR comprising more than 10 repeats appeared to robustly stall on ribosomes during translation suggesting Arg-rich peptide domains can electrostatically jam the ribosome exit tunnel during synthesis. Poly-GR also recruited arginine methylases, induced hypomethylation of endogenous proteins, and induced a profound destabilization of the actin cytoskeleton. Our findings point to arginine in GR and PR polymers as multivalent toxins to translation as well as arginine methylation that may explain the dysfunction of biological processes including ribosome biogenesis, mRNA splicing and cytoskeleton assembly.
PXD016827	32086379	Conformation-specific inhibitors of activated Ras GTPases reveal limited Ras dependency of patient-derived cancer organoids. 	Novel Conformation Specific Inhibitors of Activated GTPases reveal Ras-dependency of Patient-Derived Cancer Organoids	IP-MS, Ras-binding domain, protein-engineering	The small GTPases H, K, and NRAS are molecular switches indispensable for proper regulation of cellular proliferation and growth. Several mutations in the genes encoding members of this protein family are associated with cancer and result in aberrant activation of signaling processes caused by a deregulated recruitment of downstream effector proteins. In this study, we engineered variants of the Ras-binding domain (RBD) of the C-Raf proto-oncogene, Ser/Thr kinase (CRAF). These variants bound with high affinity with the effector-binding site of Ras in an active conformation. Structural characterization disclosed how the newly identified RBD mutations cooperate and thereby enhance affinity with the effector-binding site in Ras compared with WT RBD. The engineered RBD variants closely mimicked the interaction mode of naturally occurring Ras effectors and acted as dominant-negative affinity reagents that block Ras signal transduction. Experiments with cancer cells showed that expression of these RBD variants inhibits Ras signaling, reducing cell growth and inducing apoptosis. Using these optimized RBD variants, we stratified patient-derived colorectal cancer organoids with known Ras mutational status according to their response to Ras inhibition. These results revealed that the presence of Ras mutations was insufficient to predict sensitivity to Ras inhibition, suggesting that not all of these tumors required Ras signaling for proliferation. In summary, by engineering the Ras/Raf interface of the CRAF-RBD, we identified potent and selective inhibitors of Ras in its active conformation that outcompete binding of Ras-signaling effectors.
PXD017172	32086861	Identification of osteolineage cell-derived extracellular vesicle cargo implicated in hematopoietic support. 	Identification of osteolineage cell-derived extracellular vesicle cargo implicated in hematopoietic support	Intercellular communication, bone, hematopoietic expansion, hematopoietic niche	Osteolineage cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) play a regulatory role in hematopoiesis and have been shown to promote the ex vivo expansion of human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Here, we demonstrate that EVs from different human osteolineage sources do not have the same HSPC expansion promoting potential. Comparison of stimulatory and non-stimulatory osteolineage EVs by next-generation sequencing and mass spectrometry analyses revealed distinct microRNA and protein signatures identifying EV-derived candidate regulators of ex vivo HSPC expansion. Accordingly, the treatment of umbilical cord blood-derived CD34(+) HSPCs with stimulatory EVs-altered HSPC transcriptome, including genes with known roles in cell proliferation. An integrative bioinformatics approach, which connects the HSPC gene expression data with the candidate cargo in stimulatory EVs, delineated the potentially targeted biological functions and pathways during hematopoietic cell expansion and development. In conclusion, our study gives novel insights into the complex biological role of EVs in osteolineage cell-HSPC crosstalk and promotes the utility of EVs and their cargo as therapeutic agents in regenerative medicine.
PXD017299	32087376	Influence of cross-linker polarity on selectivity towards lysine side chains. 	Influence of cross-linker polarity on selectivity towards lysine side chains	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Structural mass spectrometry, bis(sulfosuccinimidyl) glutarate, bovine serum albumin, chemical cross-linking, disuccinimidyl glutarate, protein structure	The combination of chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometry is currently a progressive technology for deriving structural information of proteins and protein complexes. In addition, chemical cross-linking is a powerful tool for stabilizing macromolecular complexes for single particle cryo-electron microscopy. Broad pallets of cross-linking chemistry, currently available for the majority of cross-linking experiments, still rely on the amine-reactive N-hydroxysuccinimide esters targeting mainly N-termini and lysine side chains. These cross-linkers are divided into two groups: water soluble and water insoluble; and research teams prefer one or another speculating on the benefits of their choice. However, the effect of cross-linker polarity on the outcome of cross-linking reaction has never been studied. Herein, we use both polar (bis(sulfosuccinimidyl) glutarate) and non-polar (disuccinimidyl glutarate) cross-linkers and systematically investigated the impact of cross-linker hydrophobicity on resulting distance constraints, using bovine serum albumin as a model protein. SIGNIFICANCE: Even though the amine reactive BS2G and DSG cross-linkers have the same length of spacer and are based on N-hydroxysuccinimidic group, our data showed that each of them formed preferentially different cross-links. We demonstrated that the choice of cross-linker can have a significant impact on the output data for structural characterization of biomolecules. Using equimolar mixtures of DSG with d6-BS2G, and BS2G with d6-DSG, we established that the polar BS2G preferentially bound to polar regions of modified molecule, whereas non-polar DSG bound to hydrophobic regions. This phenomenon established that the mixture of polar and non-polar cross-linkers acted as an efficient tool for the determination of distance constraints in proteins.
PXD008886	32088354	Dysregulated pathways and differentially expressed proteins associated with adverse transfusion reactions in different types of platelet components. 	Platelet proteomics profiling in transfusion adverse events	Platelet concentrates (PC), Single donor apheresis-PC (SDA-PC), Transfusion	Platelet components (PCs) are occasionally associated with adverse transfusion reactions (ATRs). ATRs can occur regardless of the type of PC being transfused, whether it is a single-donor apheresis PC (SDA-PC) or a pooled PC (PPCs). The purpose of this study was to investigate the proteins and dysregulated pathways in both of the main types of PCs. The proteomic profiles of platelet pellets from SDA-PCs and PPCs involved in ATRs were analysed using the label-free LC-MS/MS method. Differentially expressed proteins with fold changes >|1.5| in clinical cases versus controls were characterised using bioinformatic tools (RStudio, GeneCodis3, and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA). The proteins were confirmed by western blotting. The common primary proteins found to be dysregulated in both types of PCs were the mitochondrial carnitine/acylcarnitine carrier protein (SLC25A20), multimerin-1 (MMRN1), and calumenin (CALU), which are associated with the important enrichment of platelet activation, platelet degranulation, and mitochondrial activity. Furthermore, this analysis revealed the involvement of commonly dysregulated canonical pathways, particularly mitochondrial dysfunction, platelet activation, and acute phase response. This proteomic analysis provided an interesting contribution to our understanding of the meticulous physiopathology of PCs associated with ATR. A larger investigation would assist in delineating the most relevant proteins to target within preventive transfusion safety strategies. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Within platelet transfusion strategies, the two primary types of PCs predominantly processed in Europe, include (i) single donor apheresis PCs (SDA-PCs) from one donor and (ii) pooled PCs (PPCs). The current study used PCs from five buffy coats derived from five whole blood donations that were identical in ABO, RH1 and KEL1 groups. Both PC types were shown to be associated with the onset of an ATR in the transfused patient. Several common platelet proteins were found to be dysregulated in bags associated with ATR occurrences regardless of the type of PCs transfused and of their process. The dysregulated proteins included mitochondrial carnitine/acylcarnitine carrier protein (SLC25A20), which is involved in a fatty acid oxidation disorder; calumenin (CALU); and multimerin-1 (MMRN1), which is chiefly involved in platelet activation and degranulation. Dysregulated platelet protein pathways for ATRs that occurred with SDA-PCs and PPCs could support the dysregulated functions found in association with those three proteins. Those common platelet proteins may become candidates to define biomarkers associated with the onset of an ATR from PC transfusions, including monitoring during the quality steps of PC manufacturing, provided that the results are confirmed in larger cohorts. This study enriches our knowledge of platelet proteomics in PCs under pathological conditions.
PXD053991	32089736	Comprehensive characterization of the phosphoproteome of gastric cancer from endoscopic biopsy specimens. 	Phosphoproteomics of endoscopic biopsy (2nd)	endoscopic biopsy, phosphoproteomics	Rationale: Cancer phosphoproteomics can provide insights regarding kinases that can be targeted for therapeutic applications. Monitoring the phosphoproteomics in cancer is expected to play a key role in optimizing treatments with kinase inhibitors. Clinical phosphoproteomics in surgical tissues and patient-derived models has been studied intensively. However, the reported data may not accurately reflect the phosphosignaling status in patients due to the effect of ischemia occurring during surgery or changes in the characteristics of cancer cells when establishing the models. In contrast, endoscopic biopsies have an advantage for clinical phosphoproteomics because they can be rapidly cryo-preserved. We aimed to develop a highly sensitive method for phosphoproteomics in endoscopic biopsies of gastric cancer. Methods: Three tumor biopsies and three normal gastric biopsies were obtained by endoscopy at one time, and subjected to our optimized phosphoproteomics. Phosphopeptides were enriched with an immobilized metal affinity chromatography, and labeled with Tandem Mass Tag reagent. Quantified phosphosites were compared between the pairs of tumor/normal biopsies within same patient. Cancer-specific activated pathways and kinases were identified by pathway enrichment analysis and kinase-substrate enrichment analysis. Results: Our protocol enabled the identification of more than 10,000 class 1 phosphosites from endoscopic biopsies. A comparison between samples from cancer tissue and normal mucosa demonstrated differences in the phosphosignaling, including biomarkers of response to DNA damage. Finally, cancer-specific activation of DNA damage response signaling was validated by additional phosphoproteomics of other patients and western blotting of gastric cancer/normal cells. Conclusion: In summary, our pioneering approach will facilitate more accurate clinical phosphoproteomics in endoscopic biopsies, which can be applied to monitor the activities of therapeutic kinases and, ultimately, can be a useful tool to precision medicine.
PXD017104	32091899	Proteomics Analysis of Cellular BRS3 Receptor Activation Reveals Potential Mechanism for Signal Transduction and Cell Proliferation. 	Human BRS3 receptor activation LC-MSMS	Human BRS3 LC-MSMS	Bombesin-like receptor 3 (BRS3), an orphan G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), plays important roles in our biological system while the exact mechanisms behind it are less known. To get insights of the biological effects upon BRS3 activation, we utilized quantitative proteomics approach to explore the dynamic protein profiling during the stimulation by its ligand. At different time points after stimulation with BRS3 surrogate agonist, the protein profiling in BRS3 overexpressed HEK 293 cells BRS3 (HEK 293-BRS3) was analyzed by nano-LC-MS/MS. In total, 1593 cellular proteins were confidently identified and quantified, including 146 proteins dysregulated at multiple time points and 319 proteins only altered at one time point. Data analysis indicated that BRS3 activation could regulate cell death, survival, and protein synthesis, particularly mRNA translation. Key signaling pathways were revealed for BRS3 signal transduction. In particular, 21 of our identified proteins are involved in the rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. The promotion of mTOR was further confirmed through monitoring its indicative targets upon BRS3 activation. Upon the inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin, cell proliferation was dramatically reversed. Our proteomics data collectively demonstrate that BRS3 activation will lead to cascades of signal transduction and promote cell proliferation. The developed strategy might be utilized to discover the roles of other GPCRs and improve our understanding of their unknown functions.
PXD014294	32091902	A Proteogenomic Resource Enabling Integrated Analysis of Listeria Genotype-Proteotype-Phenotype Relationships. 	A proteogenomic resource enabling integrated analysis of Listeria genotype-proteotype-phenotype relationships	DIA, EGD-e, Listeria, PRM, ScottA, proteogenomics, proteotype, smORFs	Listeria monocytogenes is an opportunistic foodborne pathogen responsible for listeriosis, a potentially fatal foodborne disease. Many different Listeria strains and serotypes exist, but a proteogenomic resource that bridges the gap in our molecular understanding of the relationships between the Listeria genotypes and phenotypes via proteotypes is still missing. Here, we devised a next-generation proteogenomics strategy that enables the community to rapidly proteotype Listeria strains and relate this information back to the genotype. Based on sequencing and de novo assembly of the two most commonly used Listeria model strains, EGD-e and ScottA, we established two comprehensive Listeria proteogenomic databases. A genome comparison established core- and strain-specific genes potentially responsible for virulence differences. Next, we established a DIA/SWATH-based proteotyping strategy, including a new and robust sample preparation workflow, that enables the reproducible, sensitive, and relative quantitative measurement of Listeria proteotypes. This reusable and publicly available DIA/SWATH library covers 70% of open reading frames of Listeria and represents the most extensive spectral library for Listeria proteotype analysis to date. We used these two new resources to investigate the Listeria proteotype in states mimicking the upper gastrointestinal passage. Exposure of Listeria to bile salts at 37 degreesC, which simulates conditions encountered in the duodenum, showed significant proteotype perturbations including an increase of FlaA, the structural protein of flagella. Given that Listeria is known to lose its flagella above 30 degreesC, this was an unexpected finding. The formation of flagella, which might have implications on infectivity, was validated by parallel reaction monitoring and light and scanning electron microscopy. flaA transcript levels did not change significantly upon exposure to bile salts at 37 degreesC, suggesting regulation at the post-transcriptional level. Together, these analyses provide a comprehensive proteogenomic resource and toolbox for the Listeria community enabling the analysis of Listeria genotype-proteotype-phenotype relationships.
PXD016479	32093058	Cytokine-Induced Guanylate Binding Protein 1 (GBP1) Release from Human Ovarian Cancer Cells. 	Cytokine-induced GBP1 release from human ovarian cancer cells	Guanosyl Binding Protein 1, Interferon-, Interleukin-27, Ovarian cancer, Secretome, microenvironment.	We showed that IL-27 shares several effects with IFN-gamma in human cancer cells. To identify novel extracellular mediators, potentially involved in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) biology, we analyzed the effect of IL-27 or IFN-gamma on the secretome of cultured EOC cells by mass-spectrometry (nano-UHPLC-MS/MS). IL-27 and IFN-gamma modulate the release of a limited fraction of proteins among those induced in the whole cell. We focused our attention on GBP1, a guanylate-binding protein and GTPase, which mediates several biological activities of IFNs. Cytokine treatment induced GBP1, 2, and 5 expressions in EOC cells, but only GBP1 was secreted. ELISA and immunoblotting showed that cytokine-stimulated EOC cells release full-length GBP1 in vitro, through non-classical pathways, not involving microvesicles. Importantly, full-length GBP1 accumulates in the ascites of most EOC patients and ex-vivo EOC cells show constitutive tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT1/3 proteins and GBP1 expression, supporting a role for Signal Transducer And Activator Of Transcription (STAT)-activating cytokines in vivo. High GBP1 gene expression correlates with better overall survival in the TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) dataset of EOC. In addition, GBP1 transfection partially reduced EOC cell viability in an MTT assay. Our data show for the first time that cytokine-stimulated tumor cells release soluble GBP1 in vitro and in vivo and suggest that GBP1 may have anti-tumor effects in EOC.
PXD015122	32094265	AKT but not MYC promotes reactive oxygen species-mediated cell death in oxidative culture. 	AKT but not MYC promotes reactive oxygen species-mediated cell death in oxidative culture	AKT, MYC, ROS, cancer cells survival, catalase, galactose, metabolomics, oxidative culture, oxidative stress	Oncogenes can create metabolic vulnerabilities in cancer cells. We tested how AKT (herein referring to AKT1) and MYC affect the ability of cells to shift between respiration and glycolysis. Using immortalized mammary epithelial cells, we discovered that constitutively active AKT, but not MYC, induced cell death in galactose culture, where cells rely on oxidative phosphorylation for energy generation. However, the negative effects of AKT were temporary, and AKT-expressing cells recommenced growth after ~15 days in galactose. To identify the mechanisms regulating AKT-mediated cell death, we used metabolomics and found that AKT-expressing cells that were dying in galactose culture had upregulated glutathione metabolism. Proteomic profiling revealed that AKT-expressing cells dying in galactose also upregulated nonsense-mediated mRNA decay, a marker of sensitivity to oxidative stress. We therefore measured levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and discovered that galactose-induced ROS exclusively in cells expressing AKT. Furthermore, ROS were required for galactose-induced death of AKT-expressing cells. We then confirmed that galactose-induced ROS-mediated cell death in breast cancer cells with upregulated AKT signaling. These results demonstrate that AKT but not MYC restricts the flexibility of cancer cells to use oxidative phosphorylation.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD016915	32094412	Functional omics analyses reveal only minor effects of microRNAs on human somatic stem cell differentiation. 	Impact of miRNAs on the USSC proteome after XXL-differentiation	microRNA, neuronal differentiation, retinoic acid, umbilical cord blood stem cells, unrestricted somatic stem cells	The contribution of microRNA-mediated posttranscriptional regulation on the final proteome in differentiating cells remains elusive. Here, we evaluated the impact of microRNAs (miRNAs) on the proteome of human umbilical cord blood-derived unrestricted somatic stem cells (USSC) during retinoic acid (RA) differentiation by a systemic approach using next generation sequencing analysing mRNA and miRNA expression and quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteome analyses. Interestingly, regulation of mRNAs and their dedicated proteins highly correlated during RA-incubation. Additionally, RA-induced USSC demonstrated a clear separation from native USSC thereby shifting from a proliferating to a metabolic phenotype. Bioinformatic integration of up- and downregulated miRNAs and proteins initially implied a strong impact of the miRNome on the XXL-USSC proteome. However, quantitative proteome analysis of the miRNA contribution on the final proteome after ectopic overexpression of downregulated miR-27a-5p and miR-221-5p or inhibition of upregulated miR-34a-5p, respectively, followed by RA-induction revealed only minor proportions of differentially abundant proteins. In addition, only small overlaps of these regulated proteins with inversely abundant proteins in non-transfected RA-treated USSC were observed. Hence, mRNA transcription rather than miRNA-mediated regulation is the driving force for protein regulation upon RA-incubation, strongly suggesting that miRNAs are fine-tuning regulators rather than active primary switches during RA-induction of USSC.
PXD016846	32094587	A MORC-driven transcriptional switch controls Toxoplasma developmental trajectories and sexual commitment. 	Mass spectrometry-based characterization of Toxoplasma gondii MORC interactome	TGME49_305340, Toxoplasma gondii, co-immunoprecipitation, nanoLC-MS/MS	Toxoplasma gondii has a complex life cycle that is typified by asexual development that takes place in vertebrates, and sexual reproduction, which occurs exclusively in felids and is therefore less studied. The developmental transitions rely on changes in the patterns of gene expression, and recent studies have assigned roles for chromatin shapers, including histone modifications, in establishing specific epigenetic programs for each given stage. Here, we identified the T. gondii microrchidia (MORC) protein as an upstream transcriptional repressor of sexual commitment. MORC, in a complex with Apetala 2 (AP2) transcription factors, was shown to recruit the histone deacetylase HDAC3, thereby impeding the accessibility of chromatin at the genes that are exclusively expressed during sexual stages. We found that MORC-depleted cells underwent marked transcriptional changes, resulting in the expression of a specific repertoire of genes, and revealing a shift from asexual proliferation to sexual differentiation. MORC acts as a master regulator that directs the hierarchical expression of secondary AP2 transcription factors, and these transcription factors potentially contribute to the unidirectionality of the life cycle. Thus, MORC plays a cardinal role in the T. gondii life cycle, and its conditional depletion offers a method to study the sexual development of the parasite in vitro, and is proposed as an alternative to the requirement of T. gondii infections in cats.
PXD014145	32095117	Depletion of histone methyltransferase KMT9 inhibits lung cancer cell proliferation by inducing non-apoptotic cell death. 	Depletion of histone methyltransferase KMT9 inhibits lung cancer cell proliferation by inducing non-apoptotic cell death	A549, KMT9, Lung cancer, epigenetics, histone methyltransferase, non-small cell lung cancer, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related death worldwide. Over the past 15 years no major improvement of survival rates could be accomplished. The recently discovered histone methyltransferase KMT9 that acts as epigenetic regulator of prostate tumor growth has now raised hopes of enabling new cancer therapies. In this study, we aimed to identify the function of KMT9 in lung cancer. METHODS: We unraveled the KMT9 transcriptome and proteome in A549 lung adenocarcinoma cells using RNA-Seq and mass spectrometry and linked them with functional cell culture, real-time proliferation and flow cytometry assays. RESULTS: We show that KMT9alpha and -beta subunits of KMT9 are expressed in lung cancer tissue and cell lines. Importantly, high levels of KMT9alpha correlate with poor patient survival. We identified 460 genes that are deregulated at the RNA and protein level upon knock-down of KMT9alpha in A549 cells. These genes cluster with proliferation, cell cycle and cell death gene sets as well as with subcellular organelles in gene ontology analysis. Knock-down of KMT9alpha inhibits lung cancer cell proliferation and induces non-apoptotic cell death in A549 cells. CONCLUSIONS: The novel histone methyltransferase KMT9 is crucial for proliferation and survival of lung cancer cells harboring various mutations. Small molecule inhibitors targeting KMT9 therefore should be further examined as potential milestones in modern epigenetic lung cancer therapy.
PXD016136	32095321	The endoplasmic reticulum-associated mRNA-binding proteins ERBP1 and ERBP2 interact in bloodstream-form Trypanosoma brucei. 	The endoplasmic reticulum-associated mRNA-binding protein ERBP1 from Trypanosoma brucei	RNA-binding proteins, Trypanosoma brucei, post-transcripcional control	Kinetoplastids rely heavily on post-transcriptional mechanisms for control of gene expression, and on RNA-binding proteins that regulate mRNA splicing, translation and decay. Trypanosoma brucei ERBP1 (Tb927.10.14150) and ERBP2 (Tb927.9.9550) were previously identified as mRNA binding proteins that lack canonical RNA-binding domains. We show here that ERBP1 is associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, like ERBP2, and that the two proteins interact in vivo. Loss of ERBP1 from bloodstream-form T. brucei initially resulted in a growth defect but proliferation was restored after more prolonged cultivation. Pull-down analysis of tagged ERBP1 suggests that it preferentially binds to ribosomal protein mRNAs. The ERBP1 sequence resembles that of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Bfr1, which also localises to the endoplasmic reticulum and binds to ribosomal protein mRNAs. However, unlike Bfr1, ERBP1 does not bind to mRNAs encoding secreted proteins, and it is also not recruited to stress granules after starvation.
PXD016787	32096399	Differential Lysis Approach Enables Selective Extraction of Taxon-Specific Proteins for Gut Metaproteomics. 	Differential Lysis Approach Enables Selective Extraction of Taxon-Specific Proteins for Gut Metaproteomics	Gut microbiome	Changes in microbiome composition and function have been linked to human health and diseases. Metaproteomics provides invaluable functional information on the state of a microbiome. However, lower-abundance bacteria in complex microbiomes are difficult to observe by metaproteomics. In this study, stepwise differential lysis protocols were developed for human stool microbiomes to separate different microbial species and to increase the depth of metaproteomic measurements. We achieved differential lysis of Gram-positive (G(+)) and Gram-negative (G(-)) bacteria, selective enrichment of specific bacteria, and functional enrichment by our stepwise differential lysis protocols. Therefore, differential lysis can serve as a fractionation method to reduce sample complexity and selectively extract proteins from specific taxa for deep metaproteomic studies.
PXD009815	32096818	Proline: an efficient and user-friendly software suite for large-scale proteomics. 	Proline: an efficient and user-friendly software suite for large-scale proteomics	label free quantification data management software proline	MOTIVATION: The proteomics field requires the production and publication of reliable mass spectrometry-based identification and quantification results. Although many tools or algorithms exist, very few consider the importance of combining, in a unique software environment, efficient processing algorithms and a data management system to process and curate hundreds of datasets associated with a single proteomics study. RESULTS: Here, we present Proline, a robust software suite for analysis of MS-based proteomics data, which collects, processes and allows visualization and publication of proteomics datasets. We illustrate its ease of use for various steps in the validation and quantification workflow, its data curation capabilities and its computational efficiency. The DDA label-free quantification workflow efficiency was assessed by comparing results obtained with Proline to those obtained with a widely used software using a spiked-in sample. This assessment demonstrated Proline's ability to provide high quantification accuracy in a user-friendly interface for datasets of any size. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: Proline is available for Windows and Linux under CECILL open-source license. It can be deployed in client-server mode or in standalone mode at http://proline.profiproteomics.fr/#downloads. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD012794	32097462	NK cell-derived GM-CSF potentiates inflammatory arthritis and is negatively regulated by CIS. 	NK cell-derived GM-CSF is critical for enhancing pathological arthritis	GM-CSF, NK cells, arthritis, neutrophils	Despite increasing recognition of the importance of GM-CSF in autoimmune disease, it remains unclear how GM-CSF is regulated at sites of tissue inflammation. Using GM-CSF fate reporter mice, we show that synovial NK cells produce GM-CSF in autoantibody-mediated inflammatory arthritis. Synovial NK cells promote a neutrophilic inflammatory cell infiltrate, and persistent arthritis, via GM-CSF production, as deletion of NK cells, or specific ablation of GM-CSF production in NK cells, abrogated disease. Synovial NK cell production of GM-CSF is IL-18-dependent. Furthermore, we show that cytokine-inducible SH2-containing protein (CIS) is crucial in limiting GM-CSF signaling not only during inflammatory arthritis but also in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), a murine model of multiple sclerosis. Thus, a cellular cascade of synovial macrophages, NK cells, and neutrophils mediates persistent joint inflammation via production of IL-18 and GM-CSF. Endogenous CIS provides a key brake on signaling through the GM-CSF receptor. These findings shed new light on GM-CSF biology in sterile tissue inflammation and identify several potential therapeutic targets.
PXD016317	32097557	Basic Strong Cation Exchange Chromatography, BaSCX, a Highly Efficient Approach for C-Terminomic Studies Using LysargiNase Digestion. 	Basic Strong Cation Exchange Chromatography, BaSCX, a Highly Efficient Approach for C-Terminomic Studies Using LysargiNase Digestion	C-terminomics / LysargiNase / SCX / BaSCX / Mass Spectrometry	Decoding protein C-termini is a challenging task in protein chemistry using conventional chemical and enzymatic approaches. With the rapid development in modern mass spectrometer, many advanced mass spectrometry (MS)-based protein C-termini analysis approaches have been established. Although great progress is being continually achieved, it is still necessary to develop more efficient approaches in order to discover a proteome-scale protein C-termini (C-terminome) and consequently to help understand their biological functions. In this report, we describe the BaSCX method, for basic strong cation exchange chromatography, for C-terminome studies. Taking advantage of carboxylic amidation, LysargiNase digestion, and optimized search parameters, BaSCX enables identification of 1806 and 1812 database-annotated human protein C-termini from HeLa and 293T cells, resepctively, by triplicate experiments using 40 mug proteins each. Combined together, 2151 human protein C-termini, nearly three times the recently reported largest human C-terminome data set, are reported in this study. Similar results were acquired in different organisms, including mice, C. elegans, and tomatoes. Furthermore, we report for the first time the discovery of C-terminal-specific modifications using a proteomic approach, including three methyl-esterified protein C-termini and 16 alpha-amidated protein C-termini, demonstrating the excellent performance and great potential of BaSCX in C-terminomic studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016317.
PXD014121	32097723	ATDC5 cells as a model of cartilage extracellular matrix neosynthesis, maturation and assembly. 	time course of ATDC5 proteome regulation by insulin	chondrogenesis, collagen, post-translational modifications	Fibrillar collagens and proteoglycans (PGs) are quantitatively the major constituents of extracellular matrices (ECM). They carry numerous crucial post-translational modifications (PTMs) that tune the resulting biomechanical properties of the corresponding tissues. The mechanisms determining these PTMs remain largely unknown, notably because available established cell lines do not recapitulate much of the complexity of the machineries involved. ATDC5 cells are a model of chondrogenesis widely used for decades, but it remains described mostly at histological and transcriptional levels. Here, we asked to what extent this model recapitulates the events of ECM synthesis and processing occurring in cartilage. Insulin-stimulated ATDC5 cells exhibit up- or down-regulation of more than one-hundred proteins, including a number of known participants in chondrogenesis and major markers thereof. However, they also lack several ECM components considered of significant, yet more subtle, function in cartilage. Still, they assemble the large PG aggrecan and type II collagen, both carrying most of their in vivo PTMs, into an ECM. Remarkably, collagen crosslinking is fully lysyl oxidase (LOX)-dependent. The ATDC5 model recapitulates critical aspects of the cartilage ECM-processing machinery and should be useful to decipher the mechanisms involved. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014121. SIGNIFICANCE: The present work provides the first proteome characterization of the ATDC5 chondrogenesis model, which has been used for decades in the field of cartilage biology. The results demonstrate the up- and down-regulation of more than one hundred proteins. Overall, specific drawbacks of the model are pointed out, that will be important to take into consideration for future studies. However, major cartilage components are massively assembled into an extracellular matrix and carry most of their post-translational modifications occurring in cartilage tissue. Unlike other available established cell lines, the ATDC5 model recapitulates major aspects of cartilage biosynthesis and should be useful in investigating the mechanisms that regulate collagen maturation events.
PXD017482	32098132	A High Resolution Mass Spectrometry Study Reveals the Potential of Disulfide Formation in Human Mitochondrial Voltage-Dependent Anion Selective Channel Isoforms (hVDACs). 	A High Resolution Mass Spectrometry Study Reveals the Potential of Disulfide Formation in Human Mitochondrial Voltage-Dependent Anion Selective Channel Isoforms (hVDACs)	Cysteine over-oxidation, Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid, hydroxyapatite, mitochondria, mitochondrial intermembrane space, outer mitochondrial membrane, post-translational modification	The voltage-dependent anion-selective channels (VDACs), which are also known as eukaryotic porins, are pore-forming proteins, which allow for the passage of ions and small molecules across the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM). They are involved in complex interactions that regulate organelle and cellular metabolism. We have recently reported the post-translational modifications (PTMs) of the three VDAC isoforms purified from rat liver mitochondria (rVDACs), showing, for the first time, the over-oxidation of the cysteine residues as an exclusive feature of VDACs. Noteworthy, this peculiar PTM is not detectable in other integral membrane mitochondrial proteins, as defined by their elution at low salt concentration by a hydroxyapatite column. In this study, the association of tryptic and chymotryptic proteolysis with UHPLC/High Resolution nESI-MS/MS, allowed for us to extend the investigation to the human VDACs. The over-oxidation of the cysteine residues, essentially irreversible in cell conditions, was as also certained in VDAC isoforms from human cells. In human VDAC2 and 3 isoforms the permanently reduced state of a cluster of close cysteines indicates the possibility that disulfide bridges are formed in the proteins. Importantly, the detailed oxidative PTMs that are found in human VDACs confirm and sustain our previous findings in rat tissues, claiming for a predictable characterization that has to be conveyed in the functional role of VDAC proteins within the cell. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017482.
PXD009488	32098331	beta2-Adrenergic Signalling Promotes Cell Migration by Upregulating Expression of the Metastasis-Associated Molecule LYPD3. 	Protein profiling of stress-activated breast cancer cell models	SWATH, breast cancer	Metastasis is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. Although some studies suggest beta-blockers increase survival by delaying metastasis, others have been discordant. This study provides both insights into the anomalous findings and identifies potential biomarkers that may be treatment targets. Cell line models of basal-type and oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer were profiled for basal levels of adrenoceptor gene/protein expression, and beta2-adrenoceptor mediated cell behaviour including migration, invasion, adhesion, and survival in response to adrenoceptor agonist/antagonist treatment. Protein profiling and histology identified biomarkers and drug targets. Baseline levels of adrenoceptor gene expression are higher in basal-type rather than oestrogen receptor-positive cancer cells. Norepinephrine (NE) treatment increased invasive capacity in all cell lines but did not increase proliferation/survival. Protein profiling revealed the upregulation of the pro-metastatic gene Ly6/PLAUR Domain-Containing Protein 3 (LYPD3) in norepinephrine-treated MDA-MB-468 cells. Histology confirmed selective LYPD3 expression in primary and metastatic breast tumour samples. These findings demonstrate that basal-type cancer cells show a more aggressive adrenoceptor-beta2-activated phenotype in the resting and stimulated state, which is attenuated by adrenoceptor-beta2 inhibition. This study also highlights the first association between ADRbeta2 signalling and LYPD3; its knockdown significantly reduced the basal and norepinephrine-induced activity of MCF-7 cells in vitro. The regulation of ADRbeta2 signalling by LYPD3 and its metastasis promoting activities, reveal LYPD3 as a promising therapeutic target in the treatment of breast and other cancers.
PXD017226	32098873	Site-specific 5-hydroxytryptophan incorporation into apolipoprotein A-I impairs cholesterol efflux activity and high-density lipoprotein biogenesis. 	Site-specific 5-hydroxy-tryptophan incorporation into apolipoprotein A-I impairs cholesterol efflux activity and high density lipoprotein biogenesis	5-OH-Trp, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), apolipoprotein A-I, plasma	Apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) is the major protein constituent of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and a target of myeloperoxidase-dependent oxidation in the artery wall. In atherosclerotic lesions, apoA-I exhibits marked oxidative modifications at multiple sites, including Trp(72) Site-specific mutagenesis studies have suggested, but have not conclusively shown, that oxidative modification of Trp(72) of apoA-I impairs many atheroprotective properties of this lipoprotein. Herein, we used genetic code expansion technology with an engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae tryptophanyl tRNA-synthetase (Trp-RS):suppressor tRNA pair to insert the noncanonical amino acid 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-OHTrp) at position 72 in recombinant human apoA-I and confirmed site-specific incorporation utilizing MS. In functional characterization studies, 5-OHTrp(72) apoA-I (compared with WT apoA-I) exhibited reduced ABC subfamily A member 1 (ABCA1)-dependent cholesterol acceptor activity in vitro (41.73 +/- 6.57% inhibition; p < 0.01). Additionally, 5-OHTrp(72) apoA-I displayed increased activation and stabilization of paraoxonase 1 (PON1) activity (mumol/min/mg) when compared with WT apoA-I and comparable PON1 activation/stabilization compared with reconstituted HDL (WT apoA-I, 1.92 +/- 0.04; 5-OHTrp(72) apoA-I, 2.35 +/- 0.0; and HDL, 2.33 +/- 0.1; p < 0.001, p < 0.001, and p < 0.001, respectively). Following injection into apoA-I-deficient mice, 5-OHTrp(72) apoA-I reached plasma levels comparable with those of native apoA-I yet exhibited significantly reduced (48%; p < 0.01) lipidation and evidence of HDL biogenesis. Collectively, these findings unequivocally reveal that site-specific oxidative modification of apoA-I via 5-OHTrp at Trp(72) impairs cholesterol efflux and the rate-limiting step of HDL biogenesis both in vitro and in vivo.
PXD009968	32098961	AMPK-dependent activation of the Cyclin Y/CDK16 complex controls autophagy. 	AMPK-dependent activation of the Cyclin Y/CDK16 complex controls autophagy	Autophagy, Phosphorylation, nanoLC-MSMS	The AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a master sensor of the cellular energy status that is crucial for the adaptive response to limited energy availability. AMPK is implicated in the regulation of many cellular processes, including autophagy. However, the precise mechanisms by which AMPK controls these processes and the identities of relevant substrates are not fully understood. Using protein microarrays, we identify Cyclin Y as an AMPK substrate that is phosphorylated at Serine 326 (S326) both in vitro and in cells. Phosphorylation of Cyclin Y at S326 promotes its interaction with the Cyclin-dependent kinase 16 (CDK16), thereby stimulating its catalytic activity. When expressed in cells, Cyclin Y/CDK16 is sufficient to promote autophagy. Moreover, Cyclin Y/CDK16 is necessary for efficient AMPK-dependent activation of autophagy. This functional interaction is mediated by AMPK phosphorylating S326 of Cyclin Y. Collectively, we define Cyclin Y/CDK16 as downstream effector of AMPK for inducing autophagy.
PXD016997	32099064	Combination of chemotherapy and PD-1 blockade induces T cell responses to tumor non-mutated neoantigens. 	Identification of proteome changes in apoptotic NSCLC cells	NSCLC, SILAC	Here, we developed an unbiased, functional target-discovery platform to identify immunogenic proteins from primary non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells that had been induced to apoptosis by cisplatin (CDDP) treatment in vitro, as compared with their live counterparts. Among the multitude of proteins identified, some of them were represented as fragmented proteins in apoptotic tumor cells, and acted as non-mutated neoantigens (NM-neoAgs). Indeed, only the fragmented proteins elicited effective multi-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell responses, upon a chemotherapy protocol including CDDP. Importantly, these responses further increased upon anti-PD-1 therapy, and correlated with patients' survival and decreased PD-1 expression. Cross-presentation assays showed that NM-neoAgs were unveiled in apoptotic tumor cells as the result of caspase-dependent proteolytic activity of cellular proteins. Our study demonstrates that apoptotic tumor cells generate a repertoire of immunogenic NM-neoAgs that could be potentially used for developing effective T cell-based immunotherapy across multiple cancer patients.
PXD016178	32100557	Secretome Analysis of Cardiomyocytes Identifies PCSK6 (Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 6) as a Novel Player in Cardiac Remodeling After Myocardial Infarction. 	Secretome analysis of cardiomyocytes identifies PCSK6 as a novel player in cardiac remodeling after myocardial infarction	cardiomyocytes, myocardial infarction, remodeling, secretome	BACKGROUND: Acute occlusion of a coronary artery results in swift tissue necrosis. Bordering areas of the infarcted myocardium can also experience impaired blood supply and reduced oxygen delivery, leading to altered metabolic and mechanical processes. Although transcriptional changes in hypoxic cardiomyocytes are well studied, little is known about the proteins that are actively secreted from these cells. METHODS: We established a novel secretome analysis of cardiomyocytes by combining stable isotope labeling and click chemistry with subsequent mass spectrometry analysis. Further functional validation experiments included ELISA measurement of human samples, murine left anterior descending coronary artery ligation, and adeno-associated virus 9-mediated in vivo overexpression in mice. RESULTS: The presented approach is feasible for analysis of the secretome of primary cardiomyocytes without serum starvation. A total of 1026 proteins were identified to be secreted within 24 hours, indicating a 5-fold increase in detection compared with former approaches. Among them, a variety of proteins have not yet been explored in the context of cardiovascular pathologies. One of the secreted factors most strongly upregulated upon hypoxia was PCSK6 (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 6). Validation experiments revealed an increase of PCSK6 on mRNA and protein level in hypoxic cardiomyocytes. PCSK6 expression was elevated in hearts of mice after 3 days of ligation of the left anterior descending artery, a finding confirmed by immunohistochemistry. ELISA measurements in human serum also indicate distinct kinetics for PCSK6 in patients with acute myocardial infarction, with a peak on postinfarction day 3. Transfer of PCSK6-depleted cardiomyocyte secretome resulted in decreased expression of collagen I and III in fibroblasts compared with control treated cells, and small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of PCSK6 in cardiomyocytes impacted transforming growth factor-beta activation and SMAD3 (mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3) translocation in fibroblasts. An adeno-associated virus 9-mediated, cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of PCSK6 in mice resulted in increased collagen expression and cardiac fibrosis, as well as decreased left ventricular function, after myocardial infarction. CONCLUSIONS: A novel mass spectrometry-based approach allows investigation of the secretome of primary cardiomyocytes. Analysis of hypoxia-induced secretion led to the identification of PCSK6 as being crucially involved in cardiac remodeling after acute myocardial infarction.
PXD017119	32101706	A Bartonella Effector Acts as Signaling Hub for Intrinsic STAT3 Activation to Trigger Anti-inflammatory Responses. 	A Bartonella effector acts as signaling hub for intrinsic STAT3 activation to trigger anti-inflammatory responses	Bartonella, STAT3, Signaling	Chronically infecting pathogens avoid clearance by the innate immune system by promoting premature transition from an initial pro-inflammatory response toward an anti-inflammatory tissue-repair response. STAT3, a central regulator of inflammation, controls this transition and thus is targeted by numerous chronic pathogens. Here, we show that BepD, an effector of the chronic bacterial pathogen Bartonella henselae targeted to infected host cells, establishes an exceptional pathway for canonical STAT3 activation, thereby impairing secretion of pro-inflammatory TNF-alpha and stimulating secretion of anti-inflammatory IL-10. Tyrosine phosphorylation of EPIYA-related motifs in BepD facilitates STAT3 binding and activation via c-Abl-dependent phosphorylation of Y705. The tyrosine-phosphorylated scaffold of BepD thus represents a signaling hub for intrinsic STAT3 activation that is independent from canonical STAT3 activation via transmembrane receptor-associated Janus kinases. We anticipate that our findings on a molecular shortcut to STAT3 activation will inspire new treatment options for chronic infections and inflammatory diseases.
PXD012466	32102684	Allosteric inhibition of CRISPR-Cas9 by bacteriophage-derived peptides. 	DSSO,Xlink,LC-MSMS - DSSO as linker, study of protein-protein interaction by LC-MSMS	DSSO, Xlink	BACKGROUND: CRISPR-Cas9 has been developed as a therapeutic agent for various infectious and genetic diseases. In many clinically relevant applications, constitutively active CRISPR-Cas9 is delivered into human cells without a temporal control system. Excessive and prolonged expression of CRISPR-Cas9 can lead to elevated off-target cleavage. The need for modulating CRISPR-Cas9 activity over time and dose has created the demand of developing CRISPR-Cas off switches. Protein and small molecule-based CRISPR-Cas inhibitors have been reported in previous studies. RESULTS: We report the discovery of Cas9-inhibiting peptides from inoviridae bacteriophages. These peptides, derived from the periplasmic domain of phage major coat protein G8P (G8PPD), can inhibit the in vitro activity of Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 (SpCas9) proteins in an allosteric manner. Importantly, the inhibitory activity of G8PPD on SpCas9 is dependent on the order of guide RNA addition. Ectopic expression of full-length G8P (G8PFL) or G8PPD in human cells can inactivate the genome-editing activity of SpyCas9 with minimum alterations of the mutation patterns. Furthermore, unlike the anti-CRISPR protein AcrII4A that completely abolishes the cellular activity of CRISPR-Cas9, G8P co-transfection can reduce the off-target activity of co-transfected SpCas9 while retaining its on-target activity. CONCLUSION: G8Ps discovered in the current study represent the first anti-CRISPR peptides that can allosterically inactivate CRISPR-Cas9. This finding may provide insights into developing next-generation CRISPR-Cas inhibitors for precision genome engineering.
PXD015639	32102969	Phosphotyrosine-based Phosphoproteomics for Target Identification and Drug Response Prediction in AML Cell Lines. 	The phosphoproteomic landscape of two FLT3+ Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) patient samples.	AML, Acute Myeloid Leukemia, FLT3, Tyrosine kinase, label-free, phosphoproteomics, single-shot	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a clonal disorder arising from hematopoietic myeloid progenitors. Aberrantly activated tyrosine kinases (TK) are involved in leukemogenesis and are associated with poor treatment outcome. Kinase inhibitor (KI) treatment has shown promise in improving patient outcome in AML. However, inhibitor selection for patients is suboptimal.In a preclinical effort to address KI selection, we analyzed a panel of 16 AML cell lines using phosphotyrosine (pY) enrichment-based, label-free phosphoproteomics. The Integrative Inferred Kinase Activity (INKA) algorithm was used to identify hyperphosphorylated, active kinases as candidates for KI treatment, and efficacy of selected KIs was tested.Heterogeneous signaling was observed with between 241 and 2764 phosphopeptides detected per cell line. Of 4853 identified phosphopeptides with 4229 phosphosites, 4459 phosphopeptides (4430 pY) were linked to 3605 class I sites (3525 pY). INKA analysis in single cell lines successfully pinpointed driver kinases (PDGFRA, JAK2, KIT and FLT3) corresponding with activating mutations present in these cell lines. Furthermore, potential receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) drivers, undetected by standard molecular analyses, were identified in four cell lines (FGFR1 in KG-1 and KG-1a, PDGFRA in Kasumi-3, and FLT3 in MM6). These cell lines proved highly sensitive to specific KIs. Six AML cell lines without a clear RTK driver showed evidence of MAPK1/3 activation, indicative of the presence of activating upstream RAS mutations. Importantly, FLT3 phosphorylation was demonstrated in two clinical AML samples with a FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD) mutation.Our data show the potential of pY-phosphoproteomics and INKA analysis to provide insight in AML TK signaling and identify hyperactive kinases as potential targets for treatment in AML cell lines. These results warrant future investigation of clinical samples to further our understanding of TK phosphorylation in relation to clinical response in the individual patient.
PXD015622	32102970	Large-scale Identification of N-linked Intact Glycopeptides in Human Serum using HILIC Enrichment and Spectral Library Search. 	Human serum N-linked intact glycopeptides LC-MS/MS	N-linked intact glycopeptide, co-elution, human serum, isotopic distribution, spectral library search	Large-scale identification of N-linked intact glycopeptides by liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in human serum is challenging because of the wide dynamic range of serum protein abundances, the lack of a complete serum N-glycan database and the existence of proteoforms. In this regard, a spectral library search method was presented for the identification of N-linked intact glycopeptides from N-linked glycoproteins in human serum with target-decoy and motif-specific false discovery rate (FDR) control. Serum proteins were firstly separated into low-abundance and high-abundance proteins by acetonitrile (ACN) precipitation. After digestion, the N-linked intact glycopeptides were enriched by hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) and a portion of the enriched N-linked intact glycopeptides were processed by Peptide-N-Glycosidase F (PNGase F) to generate N-linked deglycopeptides. Both N-linked intact glycopeptides and deglycopeptides were analyzed by LC-MS/MS. From N-linked deglycopeptides data sets, 764 N-linked glycoproteins, 1699 N-linked glycosites and 3328 unique N-linked deglycopeptides were identified. Four types of N-linked glycosylation motifs (NXS/T/C/V, X!=P) were used to recognize the N-linked deglycopeptides. The spectra of these N-linked deglycopeptides were utilized for N-linked deglycopeptides library construction and identification of N-linked intact glycopeptides. A database containing 739 N-glycan masses was constructed and utilized during spectral library search for the identification of N-linked intact glycopeptides. In total, 526 N-linked glycoproteins, 1036 N-linked glycosites, 22,677 N-linked intact glycopeptides and 738 N-glycan masses were identified under 1% FDR, representing the most in-depth serum N-glycoproteome identified by LC-MS/MS at N-linked intact glycopeptide level.
PXD015668	32102971	Chemical Genetics of AGC-kinases Reveals Shared Targets of Ypk1, Protein Kinase A and Sch9. 	Yeast AGC-kinases phospho-proteomics	AGC-kinases, PKA, S. cerevisiae, Sch9, Ypk1, chemical genetics	Protein phosphorylation cascades play a central role in the regulation of cell growth and protein kinases PKA, Sch9 and Ypk1 take center stage in regulating this process in S. cerevisiae To understand how these kinases co-ordinately regulate cellular functions we compared the phospho-proteome of exponentially growing cells without and with acute chemical inhibition of PKA, Sch9 and Ypk1. Sites hypo-phosphorylated upon PKA and Sch9 inhibition were preferentially located in RRxS/T-motifs suggesting that many are directly phosphorylated by these enzymes. Interestingly, when inhibiting Ypk1 we not only detected several hypo-phosphorylated sites in the previously reported RxRxxS/T-, but also in an RRxS/T-motif. Validation experiments revealed that neutral trehalase Nth1, a known PKA target, is additionally phosphorylated and activated downstream of Ypk1. Signaling through Ypk1 is therefore more closely related to PKA- and Sch9-signaling than previously appreciated and may perform functions previously only attributed to the latter kinases.
PXD014504	32103093	Glycosaminoglycan Domain Mapping of Cellular Chondroitin/Dermatan Sulfates. 	Glycosaminoglycan Domain Mapping of cellular chondroitin/dermatan sulfates	CHondroitin sulfate, GAGs, HCD, Orbitrap Elite, dermatan sulfate, glycomics, glycosaminoglycans, higher-energy collision dissociation, ion-pairing reversed-phase chromatography, negative ionisation mode	Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are polysaccharides produced by most mammalian cells and involved in a variety of biological processes. However, due to the size and complexity of GAGs, detailed knowledge about the structure and expression of GAGs by cells, the glycosaminoglycome, is lacking. Here we report a straightforward and versatile approach for structural domain mapping of complex mixtures of GAGs, GAGDoMa. The approach is based on orthogonal enzymatic depolymerization of the GAGs to generate internal, terminating, and initiating domains, and nanoflow reversed-phase ion-pairing chromatography with negative mode higher-energy collision dissociation (HCD) tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) for structural characterization of the individual domains. GAGDoMa provides a detailed structural insight into the glycosaminoglycome, and offers an important tool for deciphering the complexity of GAGs in cellular physiology and pathology.
PXD015838	32104967	Targeted Approach to Distinguish and Determine Absolute Levels of GDF8 and GDF11 in Mouse Serum. 	Targeted assay for differentiation and monitoring the concentration of GDF 8 (Myostatin) and GDF11 in mouse serum	GDF11, Myostatin/GDF8, Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM), quantitative proteomics, targeted	Growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11) is a TGF-beta superfamily circulating factor that regulates cardiomyocyte size in rodents, sharing 90% amino acid sequence identity in the active domains with myostatin (GDF8)-the major determinant of skeletal muscle mass. Conflicting data on age-related changes in circulating levels have been reported mainly due to the lack of specific detection methods. More recently, liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) based assay showed that the circulating levels of GDF11 do not change significantly throughout human lifespan, but GDF8 levels decrease with aging in men. Here a novel detection method is demonstrated based on parallel reaction monitoring LC-MS/MS assay combined with immunoprecipitation to reliably distinguish GDF11 and GDF8 as well as determine their endogenous levels in mouse serum. The data indicate that both GDF11 and GDF8 circulating levels significantly decline with aging in female mice.
PXD011374	32105074	Global Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals Significant Metabolic Reprogramming in the Termination of Liver Regeneration in Mice. 	Global Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals Significant Metabolic Reprogramming in the Termination of Liver Regeneration in Mice	Phosphorylation, liver regeneration, metabolic reprogramming, partial hepatectomy	Phosphorylation is crucial in regulating various biological processes. However, comprehensive phosphoproteomic profiling in the termination of liver regeneration (LR) is still missing. Here, we used Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) labeling coupled with phosphopeptide enrichment and two-dimensional (2D) liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)/MS analysis to establish a global phosphoproteomic map in the liver of mice at day 5 after partial hepatectomy (PH). Altogether, 9731 phosphosites from 3443 proteins were identified and 7802 phosphosites from 2980 proteins were quantified. Motif analysis of the identified phosphosites revealed a diverse array of consensus sequences, suggesting that multiple kinase families including ERK/MAPK, PKA/PKC, CaMK-II, CKII, and CDK may be involved in the termination of LR. Functional clustering analysis of proteins with dysregulated phosphosites showed that they mainly participate in metabolic pathways, DNA replication, and tight junction. More importantly, the deletion of PP2Acalpha in the liver remarkably changes the overall phosphorylation profile, indicating its critical role in regulating the termination of LR. Finally, several differentially phosphorylated sites were validated by co-immunoprecipitation and Western blot. Taken together, our data unravel the first comprehensive phosphoproteomic map in the termination of LR in mice, which greatly expands our knowledge in the complicated regulation of this process and provides new directions for the treatment of liver cancer using liver resection.
PXD014126	32106110	Growth and differentiation factor 15 is secreted by skeletal muscle during exercise and promotes lipolysis in humans. 	Quantitative LC-MSMS of human muscle cells after electrical pulse stimulation	Human myotubes, adipose tissue, exercise, lipolysis, myokines, secretome	We hypothesized that skeletal muscle contraction produces a cellular stress signal, triggering adipose tissue lipolysis to sustain fuel availability during exercise. The present study aimed at identifying exercise-regulated myokines, also known as exerkines, able to promote lipolysis. Human primary myotubes from lean healthy volunteers were submitted to electrical pulse stimulation (EPS) to mimic either acute intense or chronic moderate exercise. Conditioned media (CM) experiments with human adipocytes were performed. CM and human plasma samples were analyzed using unbiased proteomic screening and/or ELISA. Real-time qPCR was performed in cultured myotubes and muscle biopsy samples. CM from both acute intense and chronic moderate exercise increased basal lipolysis in human adipocytes. Growth and differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) gene expression and secretion increased rapidly upon skeletal muscle contraction. GDF15 protein was upregulated in CM from both acute and chronic exercise-stimulated myotubes. We further showed that physiological concentrations of recombinant GDF15 protein increased lipolysis in human adipose tissue, while blocking GDF15 with a neutralizing antibody abrogated EPS CM-mediated lipolysis. We herein provide the first evidence to our knowledge that GDF15 is a potentially novel exerkine produced by skeletal muscle contraction and able to target human adipose tissue to promote lipolysis.
PXD017312	32106352	Extending Comet for Global Amino Acid Variant and Post-Translational Modification Analysis Using the PSI Extended FASTA Format. 	Extending Comet for global amino acid variant and post-translational modification analysis using the PSI extended FASTA format (PEFF).	Comet, PEFF	Protein identification by tandem mass spectrometry sequence database searching is a standard practice in many proteomics laboratories. The de facto standard for the representation of sequence databases used as input to sequence database search tools is the FASTA format. The Human Proteome Organization's Proteomics Standards Initiative has developed an extension to the FASTA format termed the proteomics standards initiative extended FASTA format or PSI extended FASTA format (PEFF) where additional information such as structural annotations are encoded in the protein description lines. Comet has been extended to automatically analyze the post translational modifications and amino acid substitutions encoded in PEFF databases. Comet's PEFF implementation and example analysis results searching a HEK293 dataset against the neXtProt PEFF database are presented.
PXD017000	32107436	Subcellular proteomics combined with bioenergetic phenotyping reveals protein biomarkers of respiratory insufficiency in the setting of proofreading-deficient mitochondrial polymerase. 	Subcellular proteomics combined with bioenergetic phenotyping reveals protein biomarkers of respiratory insufficiency in the setting of compromised mitochondrial DNA repair.	DNA polymerase gamma, Mitochondrial proteome, TMT6plex, heart, mitochondrial DNA, skeletal muscle	The mitochondrial mutator mouse is a well-established model of premature aging. In addition to accelerated aging, these mice develop hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at ~13 months of age, presumably due to overt mitochondrial dysfunction. Despite evidence of bioenergetic disruption within heart mitochondria, there is little information about the underlying changes to the mitochondrial proteome that either directly underly or predict respiratory insufficiency in mutator mice. Herein, nLC-MS/MS was used to interrogate the mitochondria-enriched proteome of heart and skeletal muscle of aged mutator mice. The mitochondrial proteome from heart tissue was then correlated with respiratory conductance data to identify protein biomarkers of respiratory insufficiency. The majority of downregulated proteins in mutator mitochondria were subunits of respiratory complexes I and IV, including both nuclear and mitochondrial-encoded proteins. Interestingly, the mitochondrial-encoded complex V subunits, were unchanged or upregulated in mutator mitochondria, suggesting a robustness to mtDNA mutation. Finally, the proteins most strongly correlated with respiratory conductance were PPM1K, NDUFB11, and C15orf61. These results suggest that mitochondrial mutator mice undergo a specific loss of mitochondrial complexes I and IV that limit their respiratory function independent of an upregulation of complex V. Additionally, the role of PPM1K in responding to mitochondrial stress warrants further exploration.
PXD013422	32108042	Identification of Novel Prognosis and Prediction Markers in Advanced Prostate Cancer Tissues Based on Quantitative Proteomics. 	Prostate cancer tissue proteomics	Prostate cancer, advanced cancer, diagnostics, quantitative proteomics	BACKGROUND/AIM: Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most frequent cancer found in males worldwide, and its mortality rate is increasing every year. However, there are no known molecular markers for advanced or aggressive PCa, and there is an urgent clinical need for biomarkers that can be used for prognosis and prediction of PCa. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mass spectrometry-based proteomics was used to identify new biomarkers in tissues obtained from patients with PCa who were diagnosed with T2, T3, or metastatic PCa in regional lymph nodes. RESULTS: Among 1,904 proteins identified in the prostate tissues, 344 differentially expressed proteins were defined, of which 124 were up-regulated and 216 were down-regulated. Subsequently, based on the results of partial least squares discriminant analysis and Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses, we proposed that spermidine synthase (SRM), nucleolar and coiled-body phosphoprotein 1 (NOLC1), and prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS) represent new protein biomarkers for diagnosis of advanced PCa. These proteomics results were verified by immunoblot assays in metastatic PCa cell lines and by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in prostate specimens. CONCLUSION: SRM was significantly increased depending on the cancer stage, confirming the possibility of using SRM as a biomarker for prognosis and prediction of advanced PCa.
PXD016300	32108434	Proteomic Investigation on Anopheles gambiae in Burkina Faso Related to Insecticide Pressures from Different Climatic Regions. 	Proteomic investigation on Anopheles gambiae in Burkina Faso related to insecticide pressures from different climatic regions	Anopheles gambiae, Burkina Faso, insecticide pressures	In Sub-Saharan Africa, An. gambiae sensu lato (s.l.) Giles 190, largely contributes to malaria transmission. Therefore, the authors carry out a proteomic analysis to compare its metabolic state, depending on different pesticide pressures by selecting areas with/without cotton crops. The proteomes data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016300. From a total of 1.182 identified proteins, 648 are retained for further statistical analysis and are attributed to biological functions, the most important of which being energy metabolism (120 proteins) followed by translation-biogenesis (74), cytoskeleton (71), stress response (62), biosynthetic process (60), signalling (44), cellular respiration (38), cell redox homeostasis (25), DNA processing (17), pheromone binding (10), protein folding (9), RNA processing (9), other proteins (26) and unknown functions (83). In the Sudano-Sahelian region, 421 (91.3%) proteins are found in samples from areas both with and without cotton crops. By contrast, in the Sahelian region, only 271 (55.0%) are common to both crop areas, and 233 proteins are up-regulated from the cotton area. The focus is placed on proteins with putative roles in insecticide resistance, according to literature. This study provides the first whole-body proteomic characterisation of An. gambiae s.l. in Burkina Faso, as a framework to strengthen vector control strategies.
PXD015412	32109059	Re-Evaluating the Mechanism of Action of alpha,beta-Unsaturated Carbonyl DUB Inhibitors b-AP15 and VLX1570: A Paradigmatic Example of Unspecific Protein Cross-linking with Michael Acceptor Motif-Containing Drugs. 	Re-evaluation of the mechanism of action of alpha,beta-unsaturated carbonyl DUB inhibitors b-AP15 and VLX1570: CIAPIN1 is a major target of VLX1570 for non-selective covalent modification and aggregation in a multiple myeloma model.	VLX1570, bAP-15, chemoproteomics, multiple myeloma	Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are a growing target class across multiple disease states, with several inhibitors now reported. b-AP15 and VLX1570 are two structurally related USP14/UCH-37 inhibitors. Through a proteomic approach, we demonstrate that these compounds target a diverse range of proteins, resulting in the formation of higher molecular weight (MW) complexes. Activity-based proteome profiling identified CIAPIN1 as a submicromolar covalent target of VLX1570, and further analysis demonstrated that high MW complex formation leads to aggregation of CIAPIN1 in intact cells. Our results suggest that in addition to DUB inhibition, these compounds induce nonspecific protein aggregation, providing molecular explanation for general cellular toxicity.
PXD017050	32109415	A Quantitative Tissue-Specific Landscape of Protein Redox Regulation during Aging. 	A quantitative tissue-specific landscape of protein redox regulation during aging	CPT, aging, cysteine proteomics, redox	Mammalian tissues engage in specialized physiology that is regulated through reversible modification of protein cysteine residues by reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS regulate a myriad of biological processes, but the protein targets of ROS modification that drive tissue-specific physiology in vivo are largely unknown. Here, we develop Oximouse, a comprehensive and quantitative mapping of the mouse cysteine redox proteome in vivo. We use Oximouse to establish several paradigms of physiological redox signaling. We define and validate cysteine redox networks within each tissue that are tissue selective and underlie tissue-specific biology. We describe a common mechanism for encoding cysteine redox sensitivity by electrostatic gating. Moreover, we comprehensively identify redox-modified disease networks that remodel in aged mice, establishing a systemic molecular basis for the long-standing proposed links between redox dysregulation and tissue aging. We provide the Oximouse compendium as a framework for understanding mechanisms of redox regulation in physiology and aging.
PXD016441	32109675	Hybrid Spectral Library Combining DIA-MS Data and a Targeted Virtual Library Substantially Deepens the Proteome Coverage. 	Mouse brain tissue proteomics-Shui group	DIA, Mouse brain, PRM	Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) is a powerful technique that enables relatively deep proteomic profiling with superior quantification reproducibility. DIA data mining predominantly relies on a spectral library of sufficient proteome coverage that, in most cases, is built on data-dependent acquisition-based analysis of the same sample. To expand the proteome coverage for a pre-determined protein family, we report herein on the construction of a hybrid spectral library that supplements a DIA experiment-derived library with a protein family-targeted virtual library predicted by deep learning. Leveraging this DIA hybrid library substantially deepens the coverage of three transmembrane protein families (G protein-coupled receptors, ion channels, and transporters) in mouse brain tissues with increases in protein identification of 37%-87% and peptide identification of 58%-161%. Moreover, of the 412 novel GPCR peptides exclusively identified with the DIA hybrid library strategy, 53.6% were validated as present in mouse brain tissues based on orthogonal experimental measurement.
PXD017250	32110948	A TMT-Based Quantitative Proteome Analysis to Elucidate the TSWV Induced Signaling Cascade in Susceptible and Resistant Cultivars of Solanum lycopersicum. 	A TMT-based quantitative proteome analysis to elucidate the TSWV induced signaling cascade in susceptible and resistant cultivars of Solanum lycopersicum	MAP kinase, Plant-pathogen interaction, Signaling, TSWV, Tandem-mass tags (TMT), Tomato	: Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV), transmitted by small insects known as thrips, is one of the major threats to tomato productivity across the globe. In addition to tomato, this virus infects more than 1000 other plants belonging to 85 families and is a cause of serious concern. Very little, however, is known about the molecular mechanism of TSWV induced signaling in plants. Here, we used a tandem mass tags (TMT)-based quantitative proteome approach to investigate the protein profiles of tomato leaves of two cultivars (cv 2621 and 2689; susceptible and resistant to TSWV infection, respectively) following TSWV inoculation. This approach resulted in the identification of 5112 proteins of which 1022 showed significant changes in response to TSWV. While the proteome of resistant cultivar majorly remains unaltered, the proteome of susceptible cultivar showed distinct differences following TSWV inoculation. TSWV modulated proteins in tomato included those with functions previously implicated in plant defense including secondary metabolism, reactive oxygen species (ROS) detoxification, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling, calcium signaling and jasmonate biosynthesis, among others. Taken together, results reported here provide new insights into the TSWV induced signaling in tomato leaves and may be useful in the future to manage this deadly disease of plants.
PXD017363	32111039	Proteomic Analysis of Mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB Mouse Brain. 	Proteomic analysis of mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB mouse brain	Lysosomes, Mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB, NAGLU, Quantitative proteomics	Mucopolysaccharidosis IIIB (MPS IIIB) is an inherited metabolic disease due to deficiency of alpha-N-Acetylglucosaminidase (NAGLU) enzyme with subsequent storage of undegraded heparan sulfate (HS). The main clinical manifestations of the disease are profound intellectual disability and neurodegeneration. A label-free quantitative proteomic approach was applied to compare the proteome profile of brains from MPS IIIB and control mice to identify altered neuropathological pathways of MPS IIIB. Proteins were identified through a bottom up analysis and 130 were significantly under-represented and 74 over-represented in MPS IIIB mouse brains compared to wild type (WT). Multiple bioinformatic analyses allowed to identify three major clusters of the differentially abundant proteins: proteins involved in cytoskeletal regulation, synaptic vesicle trafficking, and energy metabolism. The proteome profile of NAGLU(-/-) mouse brain could pave the way for further studies aimed at identifying novel therapeutic targets for the MPS IIIB. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD017363.
PXD016508	32111735	The tetraspanin Tspan15 is an essential subunit of an ADAM10 scissor complex. 	Tetraspanin Tspan15 is an essential subunit of an ADAM10 scissor complex	ADAM10, TSPAN15	A disintegrin and metalloprotease 10 (ADAM10) is a transmembrane protein essential for embryonic development, and its dysregulation underlies disorders such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and inflammation. ADAM10 is a "molecular scissor" that proteolytically cleaves the extracellular region from >100 substrates, including Notch, amyloid precursor protein, cadherins, growth factors, and chemokines. ADAM10 has been recently proposed to function as six distinct scissors with different substrates, depending on its association with one of six regulatory tetraspanins, termed TspanC8s. However, it remains unclear to what degree ADAM10 function critically depends on a TspanC8 partner, and a lack of monoclonal antibodies specific for most TspanC8s has hindered investigation of this question. To address this knowledge gap, here we designed an immunogen to generate the first monoclonal antibodies targeting Tspan15, a model TspanC8. The immunogen was created in an ADAM10-knockout mouse cell line stably overexpressing human Tspan15, because we hypothesized that expression in this cell line would expose epitopes that are normally blocked by ADAM10. Following immunization of mice, this immunogen strategy generated four Tspan15 antibodies. Using these antibodies, we show that endogenous Tspan15 and ADAM10 co-localize on the cell surface, that ADAM10 is the principal Tspan15-interacting protein, that endogenous Tspan15 expression requires ADAM10 in cell lines and primary cells, and that a synthetic ADAM10/Tspan15 fusion protein is a functional scissor. Furthermore, two of the four antibodies impaired ADAM10/Tspan15 activity. These findings suggest that Tspan15 directly interacts with ADAM10 in a functional scissor complex.
PXD015268	32117081	Proteomic Investigation Uncovers Potential Targets and Target Sites of Pneumococcal Serine-Threonine Kinase StkP and Phosphatase PhpP. 	Proteomic investigation uncovers potential targets and target sites of pneumococcal serine-threonine kinase StkP and phosphatase PhpP	Ser/Thr kinases, Streptococcus pneumoniae, label-free quantification, phosphatases, phosphopeptide enrichment, phosphoproteomics, spectral library	Like eukaryotes, different bacterial species express one or more Ser/Thr kinases and phosphatases that operate in various signaling networks by catalyzing phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of proteins that can immediately regulate biochemical pathways by altering protein function. The human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae encodes a single Ser/Thr kinase-phosphatase couple known as StkP-PhpP, which has shown to be crucial in the regulation of cell wall synthesis and cell division. In this study, we applied proteomics to further understand the physiological role of pneumococcal PhpP and StkP with an emphasis on phosphorylation events on Ser and Thr residues. Therefore, the proteome of the non-encapsulated D39 strain (WT), a kinase (DeltastkP), and phosphatase mutant (DeltaphpP) were compared in a mass spectrometry based label-free quantification experiment. Results show that a loss of function of PhpP causes an increased abundance of proteins in the phosphate uptake system Pst. Quantitative proteomic data demonstrated an effect of StkP and PhpP on the two-component systems ComDE, LiaRS, CiaRH, and VicRK. To obtain further information on the function, targets and target sites of PhpP and StkP we combined the advantages of phosphopeptide enrichment using titanium dioxide and spectral library based data evaluation for sensitive detection of changes in the phosphoproteome of the wild type and the mutant strains. According to the role of StkP in cell division we identified several proteins involved in cell wall synthesis and cell division that are apparently phosphorylated by StkP. Unlike StkP, the physiological function of the co-expressed PhpP is poorly understood. For the first time we were able to provide a list of previously unknown putative targets of PhpP. Under these new putative targets of PhpP are, among others, five proteins with direct involvement in cell division (DivIVA, GpsB) and peptidoglycan biosynthesis (MltG, MreC, MacP).
PXD016382	32117190	Comparative Proteomics of Meat Spoilage Bacteria Predicts Drivers for Their Coexistence on Modified Atmosphere Packaged Meat. 	Comparative proteomics of meat-spoiling bacteria predicts drivers for their coexistence on modified atmosphere packaged meat	Brochothrix thermosphacta, Carnobacterium divergens, Carnobacterium maltaromaticum, Leuconostoc   gelidum subsp. gasicomitatum, Leuconostoc gelidum subsp. Gelidum, differential proteomics, meat-spoiling bacteria	Besides intrinsic and extrinsic factors such as antagonism for organic substrates or temperature, the storage atmosphere of meat has a high influence on the development of its initial microbiota. Specific modified atmospheres (MAs) selectively suppress growth of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, thus reshaping the initial microbiota. As some microorganisms are more tolerant to MA, they overgrow competitors and produce metabolites that cause rejection of the product. In order to elucidate responses to different MA by means of metabolic adaptation and competition for organic substrates on meat, the typical representative meat spoilage bacteria Brochothrix (B.) thermosphacta TMW2.2101 and four lactic acid bacteria Carnobacterium (C.) divergens TMW2.1577, C. maltaromaticum TMW2.1581, Leuconostoc (L.) gelidum subsp. gelidum TMW2.1618 and L. gelidum subsp. gasicomitatum TMW2.1619 were chosen. Bacteria were grown in sterile glass bottles filled with a meat simulation medium, which was aerated constantly with either air, 100%_N2, 30%_CO2/70%_O2 or 30%_CO2/70%_N2. Growth of bacteria during incubation at 25degreesC and stirring at 120 rpm was monitored over 48 h and a label-free quantitative mass spectrometric approach was employed to determine changes within the bacterial proteomes in response to oxygen and carbon dioxide. Both Leuconostoc subsp. were intrinsically tolerant to MA, exhibiting no proteomic regulation of enzymes, whereas the other species provide a set of metabolic adaptation mechanism, enabling higher resistance to the detrimental effects of MA. Those mechanisms comprise: enhanced oxidative stress reduction, adjustment of the pyruvate metabolism and catabolic oxygen consumption in response to oxygen and intracellular pH homeostasis, maintenance of osmotic balance and alteration of the fatty acid composition in response to carbon dioxide. We further evaluated the potential of industrial used MA to inhibit specific bacterial spoilage. No bacterial inhibition is predicted for 30%_CO2/70%_O2 for the analyzed species, whereas 30%_CO2/70%_N2 predictively inhibits C. divergens TMW21577 and B. thermosphacta TMW2.2101. Furthermore, species-specific metabolic pathways enabling different and preferential carbon source utilization were identified, which enable non-competitive coexistence of respective bacteria on meat, resulting in synergistic spoilage. In conclusion, this study gives mechanistically explanations of their acknowledged status as typical spoilage organisms on MAP meats.
PXD016041	32119511	Engineering a Proximity-Directed O-GlcNAc Transferase for Selective Protein O-GlcNAcylation in Cells. 	selective protein O-glcNAcylation in cells by a proximity-directed O-GlcNAc transferase	OGT, glycoproteomics, nanobody, o-glcnac	O-Linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is a monosaccharide that plays an essential role in cellular signaling throughout the nucleocytoplasmic proteome of eukaryotic cells. Strategies for selectively increasing O-GlcNAc levels on a target protein in cells would accelerate studies of this essential modification. Here, we report a generalizable strategy for introducing O-GlcNAc into selected target proteins in cells using a nanobody as a proximity-directing agent fused to O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT). Fusion of a nanobody that recognizes GFP (nGFP) or a nanobody that recognizes the four-amino acid sequence EPEA (nEPEA) to OGT yielded nanobody-OGT constructs that selectively delivered O-GlcNAc to a series of tagged target proteins (e.g., JunB, cJun, and Nup62). Truncation of the tetratricopeptide repeat domain as in OGT(4) increased selectivity for the target protein through the nanobody by reducing global elevation of O-GlcNAc levels in the cell. Quantitative chemical proteomics confirmed the increase in O-GlcNAc to the target protein by nanobody-OGT(4). Glycoproteomics revealed that nanobody-OGT(4) or full-length OGT produced a similar glycosite profile on the target protein JunB and Nup62. Finally, we demonstrate the ability to selectively target endogenous alpha-synuclein for O-GlcNAcylation in HEK293T cells. These first proximity-directed OGT constructs provide a flexible strategy for targeting additional proteins and a template for further engineering of OGT and the O-GlcNAc proteome in the future. The use of a nanobody to redirect OGT substrate selection for glycosylation of desired proteins in cells may further constitute a generalizable strategy for controlling a broader array of post-translational modifications in cells.
PXD015656	32119645	C9orf72 arginine-rich dipeptide repeat proteins disrupt karyopherin-mediated nuclear import. 	C9orf72 arginine-rich dipeptide repeat proteins disrupt importin beta-mediated nuclear import	C9orf72, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, importin beta, nuclear transport	Disruption of nucleocytoplasmic transport is increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, including ALS caused by a C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion. However, the mechanism(s) remain unclear. Karyopherins, including importin beta and its cargo adaptors, have been shown to co-precipitate with the C9orf72 arginine-containing dipeptide repeat proteins (R-DPRs), poly-glycine arginine (GR) and poly-proline arginine (PR), and are protective in genetic modifier screens. Here, we show that R-DPRs interact with importin beta, disrupt its cargo loading, and inhibit nuclear import of importin beta, importin alpha/beta, and transportin cargoes in permeabilized mouse neurons and HeLa cells, in a manner that can be rescued by RNA. Although R-DPRs induce widespread protein aggregation in this in vitro system, transport disruption is not due to nucleocytoplasmic transport protein sequestration, nor blockade of the phenylalanine-glycine (FG)-rich nuclear pore complex. Our results support a model in which R-DPRs interfere with cargo loading on karyopherins.
PXD008359	32120044	The change of gravity vector induces short-term phosphoproteomic alterations in Arabidopsis. 	Phosphoproteomics study of gravistimulated Arabidopsis	gravity	Plants can sense the gravitational force. When plants perceive a change in this natural force, they tend to reorient their organs with respect to the direction of the gravity vector, i.e., the shoot stem curves up. In the present study, we performed a 4C quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify those altered protein phosphosites resulting from 150 s of reorientation of Arabidopsis plants on earth. A total of 5556 phosphopeptides were identified from the gravistimulated Arabidopsis. Quantification based on the (15)N-stable isotope labeling in Arabidopsis (SILIA) and computational analysis of the extracted ion chromatogram (XIC) of phosphopeptides showed eight and five unique PTM peptide arrays (UPAs) being up- and down-regulated, respectively, by gravistimulation. Among the 13 plant reorientation-responsive protein groups, many are related to the cytoskeleton dynamic and plastid movement. Interestingly, the most gravistimulation-responsive phosphosites are three serine residues, S350, S376, and S410, of a blue light receptor Phototropin 1 (PHOT1). The immunoblots experiment confirmed that the change of gravity vector indeed affected the phosphorylation level of S410 in PHOT1. The functional role of PHOT1 in gravitropic response was further validated with gravicurvature measurement in the darkness of both the loss-of-function double mutant phot1phot2 and its complementary transgenic plant PHOT1/phot1phot2. SIGNIFICANCE: The organs of sessile organisms, plants, are able to move in response to environmental stimuli, such as gravity vector, touch, light, water, or nutrients, which is termed tropism. For instance, the bending of plant shoots to the light source is called phototropism. Since all plants growing on earth are continuously exposed to the gravitational field, plants receive the mechanical signal elicited by the gravity vector change and convert it into plant morphogenesis, growth, and development. Past studies have resulted in various hypotheses for gravisensing, but our knowledge about how the signal of gravity force is transduced in plant cells is still minimal. In the present study, we performed a SILIA-based 4C quantitative phosphoproteomics on 150-s gravistimulated Arabidopsis seedlings to explore the phosphoproteins involved in the gravitropic response. Our data demonstrated that such a short-term reorientation of Arabidopsis caused changes in phosphorylation of cytoskeleton structural proteins like Chloroplast Unusual Positioning1 (CHUP1), Patellin3 (PATL3), and Plastid Movement Impaired2 (PMI2), as well as the blue light receptor Phototropin1 (PHOT1). These results suggested that protein phosphorylation plays a crucial role in gravisignaling, and two primary tropic responses of plants, gravitropism and phototropism, may share some common components and signaling pathways. We expect that the phosphoproteins detected from this study will facilitate the subsequent molecular and cellular studies on the mechanism underlying the signal transduction in plant gravitropic response.
PXD012146	32123031	Human Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4-alpha Encodes Isoforms with Distinct Transcriptional Functions. 	Functions of the 12 different isoforms of the hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (HNF4alpha)	HNF4alpha, SILAC, colorectal cancer, isoforms, nuclear receptors, transcription	HNF4alpha is a nuclear receptor produced as 12 isoforms from two promoters by alternative splicing. To characterize the transcriptional capacities of all 12 HNF4alpha isoforms, stable lines expressing each isoform were generated. The entire transcriptome associated with each isoform was analyzed as well as their respective interacting proteome. Major differences were noted in the transcriptional function of these isoforms. The alpha1 and alpha2 isoforms were the strongest regulators of gene expression whereas the alpha3 isoform exhibited significantly reduced activity. The alpha4, alpha5, and alpha6 isoforms, which use an alternative first exon, were characterized for the first time, and showed a greatly reduced transcriptional potential with an inability to recognize the consensus response element of HNF4alpha. Several transcription factors and coregulators were identified as potential specific partners for certain HNF4alpha isoforms. An analysis integrating the vast amount of omics data enabled the identification of transcriptional regulatory mechanisms specific to certain HNF4alpha isoforms, hence demonstrating the importance of considering all isoforms given their seemingly diverse functions.
PXD013906	32123086	CUL3(BPM) E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate MYC2, MYC3, and MYC4 stability and JA responses. 	CUL3(BPM) E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate MYC2, MYC3 and MYC4 stability and JA responses	Jasmonate, MYC, phytohormone, proteasome, ubiquitination	The jasmonate (JA)-pathway regulators MYC2, MYC3, and MYC4 are central nodes in plant signaling networks integrating environmental and developmental signals to fine-tune JA defenses and plant growth. Continuous activation of MYC activity is potentially lethal. Hence, MYCs need to be tightly regulated in order to optimize plant fitness. Among the increasing number of mechanisms regulating MYC activity, protein stability is arising as a major player. However, how the levels of MYC proteins are modulated is still poorly understood. Here, we report that MYC2, MYC3, and MYC4 are targets of BPM (BTB/POZ-MATH) proteins, which act as substrate adaptors of CUL3-based E3 ubiquitin ligases. Reduction of function of CUL3(BPM) in amiR-bpm lines, bpm235 triple mutants, and cul3ab double mutants enhances MYC2 and MYC3 stability and accumulation and potentiates plant responses to JA such as root-growth inhibition and MYC-regulated gene expression. Moreover, MYC3 polyubiquitination levels are reduced in amiR-bpm lines. BPM3 protein is stabilized by JA, suggesting a negative feedback regulatory mechanism to control MYC activity, avoiding harmful runaway responses. Our results uncover a layer for JA-pathway regulation by CUL3(BPM)-mediated degradation of MYC transcription factors.
PXD017303	32123095	Cyp2c44 regulates prostaglandin synthesis, lymphangiogenesis, and metastasis in a mouse model of breast cancer. 	Consequences of Cyp2c44 deletion on proteome of the microsomal fraction of primary polyoma middle T (PyMT) tumors	Lymphangiogenesis, WDFY1, breast cancer, macrophage, metastasis	Arachidonic acid epoxides generated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes have been linked to increased tumor growth and metastasis, largely on the basis of overexpression studies and the application of exogenous epoxides. Here we studied tumor growth and metastasis in Cyp2c44(-/-) mice crossed onto the polyoma middle T oncogene (PyMT) background. The resulting PyMT(2c44) mice developed more primary tumors earlier than PyMT mice, with increased lymph and lung metastasis. Primary tumors from Cyp2c44-deficient mice contained higher numbers of tumor-associated macrophages, as well as more lymphatic endothelial cells than tumors from PyMT mice. While epoxide and diol levels were comparable in tumors from both genotypes, prostaglandin (PG) levels were higher in the PyMT(Delta2c44) tumors. This could be accounted for by the finding that Cyp2c44 metabolized the PG precursor, PGH2 to 12(S)-hydroxyheptadeca-5Z,8E,10E-trienoic acid (12-HHT), thus effectively reducing levels of effector PGs (including PGE2). Next, proteomic analyses revealed an up-regulation of WD repeating domain FYVE1 (WDFY1) in tumors from PyMT(Delta2c44) mice, a phenomenon that was reproduced in Cyp2c44-deficient macrophages as well as by PGE2 Mechanistically, WDFY1 was involved in Toll-like receptor signaling, and its down-regulation in human monocytes attenuated the LPS-induced phosphorylation of IFN regulatory factor 3 and nuclear factor-kappaB. Taken together, our results indicate that Cyp2c44 protects against tumor growth and metastasis by preventing the synthesis of PGE2 The latter eicosanoid influenced macrophages at least in part by enhancing Toll-like receptor signaling via the up-regulation of WDFY1.
PXD014483	32123383	ChromID identifies the protein interactome at chromatin marks. 	ChromID reveals the proteome composition of key chromatin states in murine stem cells	Chromatin, Chromatin Proteomics, Epigenetics, Synthetic Biology, Systems Biology	Chromatin modifications regulate genome function by recruiting proteins to the genome. However, the protein composition at distinct chromatin modifications has yet to be fully characterized. In this study, we used natural protein domains as modular building blocks to develop engineered chromatin readers (eCRs) selective for DNA methylation and histone tri-methylation at H3K4, H3K9 and H3K27 residues. We first demonstrated their utility as selective chromatin binders in living cells by stably expressing eCRs in mouse embryonic stem cells and measuring their subnuclear localization, genomic distribution and histone-modification-binding preference. By fusing eCRs to the biotin ligase BASU, we established ChromID, a method for identifying the chromatin-dependent protein interactome on the basis of proximity biotinylation, and applied it to distinct chromatin modifications in mouse stem cells. Using a synthetic dual-modification reader, we also uncovered the protein composition at bivalently modified promoters marked by H3K4me3 and H3K27me3. These results highlight the ability of ChromID to obtain a detailed view of protein interaction networks on chromatin.
PXD016871	32123389	SRSF7 maintains its homeostasis through the expression of Split-ORFs and nuclear body assembly. 	Peptide mapping of SRSF7_RS-GFP isoforms in murine P19 cells	SRSF7	SRSF7 is an essential RNA-binding protein whose misexpression promotes cancer. Here, we describe how SRSF7 maintains its protein homeostasis in murine P19 cells using an intricate negative feedback mechanism. SRSF7 binding to its premessenger RNA promotes inclusion of a poison cassette exon and transcript degradation via nonsense-mediated decay (NMD). However, elevated SRSF7 levels inhibit NMD and promote translation of two protein halves, termed Split-ORFs, from the bicistronic SRSF7-PCE transcript. The first half acts as dominant-negative isoform suppressing poison cassette exon inclusion and instead promoting the retention of flanking introns containing repeated SRSF7 binding sites. Massive SRSF7 binding to these sites and its oligomerization promote the assembly of large nuclear bodies, which sequester SRSF7 transcripts at their transcription site, preventing their export and restoring normal SRSF7 protein levels. We further show that hundreds of human and mouse NMD targets, especially RNA-binding proteins, encode potential Split-ORFs, some of which are expressed under specific cellular conditions.
PXD017099	32123521	Comparative proteomic analysis of the brain and colon in three rat models of irritable bowel syndrome. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of the brain and colon in three rat models of irritable bowel syndrome	brain, colon, irritable bowel syndrome models	BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) has been gradually recognized as a disorder of the brain-gut interaction, but the molecular changes in the brain and colon that occur in disease development remain poorly understood. We employed proteomic analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins in both the brain and colon of three IBS models. METHODS: To explore the relevant protein abundance changes in the brain and colon, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ), liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and Western blotting methods were used in three IBS models, including maternal separation (MS, group B), chronic wrap restraint stress (CWRS, group C) and a combination of MS and CWRS (group D). RESULTS: We identified 153, 280, and 239 proteins that were common and differentially expressed in the two tissue types of groups B, C and D, respectively; 43 differentially expressed proteins showed the same expression changes among the three groups, including 25 proteins upregulated in the colon and downregulated in the brain, 7 proteins downregulated in the colon and upregulated in the brain, and 3 proteins upregulated and 8 downregulated in both tissues. Gene ontology analysis showed that the differentially expressed proteins were mainly associated with cellular assembly and organization and cellular function and maintenance. Protein interaction network and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis indicated that the differentiated proteins were mainly involved in the protein ubiquitination pathway and mitochondrial dysfunction. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the data presented represent a comprehensive and quantitative proteomic analysis of the brain and colon in IBS models, providing new evidence of an abnormal brain-gut interaction in IBS. These data may be useful for further investigation of potential targets in the diagnosis and treatment of IBS.
PXD011541	32123828	In search of the altering salivary proteome in metastatic breast and ovarian cancers. 	In Search of the Altering Salivary Proteome in Metastatic Breast and Ovarian Cancer	Neoadjuvant Therapy, Organotropism, Quantitative proteomics, Saliva	Breast and ovarian cancers, the most common cancers in women in India, are expected to rise in the next decade. Metastatic organotropism is a nonrandom, predetermined process which represents a more lethal and advanced form of cancer with increased mortality rate. In an attempt to study organotropism, salivary proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry indicative of pathophysiology of breast and ovarian cancers and were compared to healthy and ovarian chemotherapy subjects. Collectively, 646 proteins were identified, of which 409 proteins were confidently identified across all four groups. Network analysis of upregulated proteins such as coronin-1A, hepatoma-derived growth factor, vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP), and cofilin in breast cancer and proteins like coronin-1A, destrin, and HSP90alpha in ovarian cancer were functionally linked and were known to regulate cell proliferation and migration. Additionally, proteins namely VASP, coronin-1A, stathmin, and suprabasin were confidently identified in ovarian chemotherapy subjects, possibly in response to combined paclitaxel and carboplatin drug therapy to ovarian cancer. Selected representative differentially expressed proteins (eg, gelsolin, VASP) were validated by western blot analysis. Results of this study provide a foundation for future research to better understand the organotropic behavior of breast and ovarian cancers, as well as neoadjuvant drug response in ovarian cancer.
PXD013764	32125861	Quantitative Longitudinal Inventory of the N-Glycoproteome of Human Milk from a Single Donor Reveals the Highly Variable Repertoire and Dynamic Site-Specific Changes. 	Human Milk Site-specific N-Glycoproteome Changes Across Lactation	HILIC, Human Milk, Parallel reaction monitoring, glycoproteomics, glycosylation	Protein N-glycosylation on human milk proteins assists in protecting an infant's health and functions among others as competitive inhibitors of pathogen binding and immunomodulators. Due to the individual uniqueness of each mother's milk and the overall complexity and temporal changes of protein N-glycosylation, analysis of the human milk N-glycoproteome requires longitudinal personalized approaches, providing protein- and N-site-specific quantitative information. Here, we describe an automated platform using hydrophilic-interaction chromatography (HILIC)-based cartridges enabling the proteome-wide monitoring of intact N-glycopeptides using just a digest of 150 mug of breast milk protein. We were able to map around 1700 glycopeptides from 110 glycoproteins covering 191 glycosites, of which 43 sites have not been previously reported with experimental evidence. We next quantified 287 of these glycopeptides originating from 50 glycoproteins using a targeted proteomics approach. Although each glycoprotein, N-glycosylation site, and attached glycan revealed distinct dynamic changes, we did observe a few general trends. For instance, fucosylation, especially terminal fucosylation, increased across the lactation period. Building on the improved glycoproteomics approach outlined above, future studies are warranted to reveal the potential impact of the observed glycosylation microheterogeneity on the healthy development of infants.
PXD015597	32126136	Comparative proteomics analysis of Tibetan hull-less barley under osmotic stress via data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. 	Comparative Proteomics Analysis of Tibetan Hulless Barley under Drought Stress via Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry	DIA, Tibetan hulless barley, abiotic stress, drought stress, quantification	BACKGROUND: Tibetan hull-less barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum) is one of the primary crops cultivated in the mountains of Tibet and encounters low temperature, high salinity, and drought. Specifically, drought is one of the major abiotic stresses that affect and limit Tibetan barley growth. Osmotic stress is often simultaneously accompanied by drought conditions. Thus, to improve crop yield, it is critical to explore the molecular mechanism governing the responses of hull-less barley to osmotic/drought stress conditions. FINDINGS: In this study, we used quantitative proteomics by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry to investigate protein abundance changes in tolerant (XL) and sensitive (DQ) cultivars. A total of 6,921 proteins were identified and quantified in all samples. Two distinct strategies based on pairwise and time-course comparisons were utilized in the comprehensive analysis of differentially abundant proteins. Further functional analysis of differentially abundant proteins revealed that some hormone metabolism-associated and phytohormone abscisic acid-induced genes are primarily affected by osmotic stress. Enhanced regulation of reactive oxygen species (may promote the tolerance of hull-less barley under osmotic stress. Moreover, we found that some regulators, such as GRF, PR10, MAPK, and AMPK, were centrally positioned in the gene regulatory network, suggesting that they may have a dominant role in the osmotic stress response of Tibetan barley. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight a subset of proteins and processes that are involved in the alleviation of osmotic stress. In addition, this study provides a large-scale and multidimensional proteomic data resource for the further investigation and improvement of osmotic/drought stress tolerance in hull-less barley or other plant species.
PXD017823	32126768	Full-Featured, Real-Time Database Searching Platform Enables Fast and Accurate Multiplexed Quantitative Proteomics. 	Full-featured, real-time database searching platform enables fast and accurate multiplexed quantitative proteomics.	Orbiter, multiplexed, real-time search	Multiplexed quantitative analyses of complex proteomes enable deep biological insight. While a multitude of workflows have been developed for multiplexed analyses, the most quantitatively accurate method (SPS-MS3) suffers from long acquisition duty cycles. We built a new, real-time database search (RTS) platform, Orbiter, to combat the SPS-MS3 method's longer duty cycles. RTS with Orbiter eliminates SPS-MS3 scans if no peptide matches to a given spectrum. With Orbiter's online proteomic analytical pipeline, which includes RTS and false discovery rate analysis, it was possible to process a single spectrum database search in less than 10 ms. The result is a fast, functional means to identify peptide spectral matches using Comet, filter these matches, and more efficiently quantify proteins of interest. Importantly, the use of Comet for peptide spectral matching allowed for a fully featured search, including analysis of post-translational modifications, with well-known and extensively validated scoring. These data could then be used to trigger subsequent scans in an adaptive and flexible manner. In this work we tested the utility of this adaptive data acquisition platform to improve the efficiency and accuracy of multiplexed quantitative experiments. We found that RTS enabled a 2-fold increase in mass spectrometric data acquisition efficiency. Orbiter's RTS quantified more than 8000 proteins across 10 proteomes in half the time of an SPS-MS3 analysis (18 h for RTS, 36 h for SPS-MS3).
PXD016403	32127419	Systematic Localization of Escherichia coli Membrane Proteins. 	Escherichia coli sucrose gradient fractionation	Escherichia coli	The molecular architecture and function of the Gram-negative bacterial cell envelope are dictated by protein composition and localization. Proteins that localize to the inner membranes (IM) and outer membranes (OM) of Gram-negative bacteria play critical and distinct roles in cellular physiology; however, approaches to systematically interrogate their distribution across both membranes and the soluble cell fraction are lacking. Here, we employed multiplexed quantitative mass spectrometry using tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling to assess membrane protein localization in a proteome-wide fashion by separating IM and OM vesicles from exponentially growing Escherichia coli K-12 cells on a sucrose density gradient. The migration patterns for >1,600 proteins were classified in an unbiased manner, accurately recapitulating decades of knowledge in membrane protein localization in E. coli For 559 proteins that are currently annotated as peripherally associated with the IM (G. Orfanoudaki and A. Economou, Mol Cell Proteomics 13:3674-3687, 2014, https://doi.org/10.1074/mcp.O114.041137) and that display potential for dual localization to either the IM or cytoplasm, we could allocate 110 proteins to the IM and 206 proteins to the soluble cell fraction based on their fractionation patterns. In addition, we uncovered 63 cases, in which our data disagreed with current localization annotation in protein databases. For 42 of these cases, we were able to find supportive evidence for our localization findings in the literature. We anticipate that our systems-level analysis of the E. coli membrane proteome will serve as a useful reference data set to query membrane protein localization, as well as to provide a novel methodology to rapidly and systematically map membrane protein localization in more poorly characterized Gram-negative species.IMPORTANCE Current knowledge of protein localization, particularly outer membrane proteins, is highly dependent on bioinformatic predictions. To date, no systematic experimental studies have directly compared protein localization spanning the inner and outer membranes of E. coli By combining sucrose density gradient fractionation of inner membrane (IM) and outer membrane (OM) proteins with multiplex quantitative proteomics, we systematically quantified localization patterns for >1,600 proteins, providing high-confidence localization annotations for 1,368 proteins. Of these proteins, we resolve the predominant localization of 316 proteins that currently have dual annotation (cytoplasmic and IM) in protein databases and identify new annotations for 42 additional proteins. Overall, we present a novel quantitative methodology to systematically map membrane proteins in Gram-negative bacteria and use it to unravel the biological complexity of the membrane proteome architecture in E. coli.
PXD014308	32127489	Plasmodium chaperonin TRiC/CCT identified as a target of the antihistamine clemastine using parallel chemoproteomic strategy. 	Clemastine Fumarate in Plasmodium	Anti-malarial, Clemastine Fumarate, Plasmodium	The antihistamine clemastine inhibits multiple stages of the Plasmodium parasite that causes malaria, but the molecular targets responsible for its parasite inhibition were unknown. Here, we applied parallel chemoproteomic platforms to discover the mechanism of action of clemastine and identify that clemastine binds to the Plasmodium falciparum TCP-1 ring complex or chaperonin containing TCP-1 (TRiC/CCT), an essential heterooligomeric complex required for de novo cytoskeletal protein folding. Clemastine destabilized all eight P. falciparum TRiC subunits based on thermal proteome profiling (TPP). Further analysis using stability of proteins from rates of oxidation (SPROX) revealed a clemastine-induced thermodynamic stabilization of the Plasmodium TRiC delta subunit, suggesting an interaction with this protein subunit. We demonstrate that clemastine reduces levels of the major TRiC substrate tubulin in P. falciparum parasites. In addition, clemastine treatment leads to disorientation of Plasmodium mitotic spindles during the asexual reproduction and results in aberrant tubulin morphology suggesting protein aggregation. This clemastine-induced disruption of TRiC function is not observed in human host cells, demonstrating a species selectivity required for targeting an intracellular human pathogen. Our findings encourage larger efforts to apply chemoproteomic methods to assist in target identification of antimalarial drugs and highlight the potential to selectively target Plasmodium TRiC-mediated protein folding for malaria intervention.
PXD017626	32127492	An Improved Boosting to Amplify Signal with Isobaric Labeling (iBASIL) Strategy for Precise Quantitative Single-cell Proteomics. 	An improved Boosting to Amplify Signal with Isobaric Labeling (iBASIL) strategy for precise quantitative single-cell proteomics	automatic gain control (AGC), boosting ratio, iBASIL, ion injection time (IT), single-cell proteomics	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics has great potential for overcoming the limitations of antibody-based immunoassays for antibody-independent, comprehensive, and quantitative proteomic analysis of single cells. Indeed, recent advances in nanoscale sample preparation have enabled effective processing of single cells. In particular, the concept of using boosting/carrier channels in isobaric labeling to increase the sensitivity in MS detection has also been increasingly used for quantitative proteomic analysis of small-sized samples including single cells. However, the full potential of such boosting/carrier approaches has not been significantly explored, nor has the resulting quantitation quality been carefully evaluated. Herein, we have further evaluated and optimized our recent boosting to amplify signal with isobaric labeling (BASIL) approach, originally developed for quantifying phosphorylation in small number of cells, for highly effective analysis of proteins in single cells. This improved BASIL (iBASIL) approach enables reliable quantitative single-cell proteomics analysis with greater proteome coverage by carefully controlling the boosting-to-sample ratio (e.g. in general <100x) and optimizing MS automatic gain control (AGC) and ion injection time settings in MS/MS analysis (e.g. 5E5 and 300 ms, respectively, which is significantly higher than that used in typical bulk analysis). By coupling with a nanodroplet-based single cell preparation (nanoPOTS) platform, iBASIL enabled identification of ~2500 proteins and precise quantification of ~1500 proteins in the analysis of 104 FACS-isolated single cells, with the resulting protein profiles robustly clustering the cells from three different acute myeloid leukemia cell lines. This study highlights the importance of carefully evaluating and optimizing the boosting ratios and MS data acquisition conditions for achieving robust, comprehensive proteomic analysis of single cells.
PXD014730	32127685	Dairy pastoralism sustained eastern Eurasian steppe populations for 5,000 years. 	Dairy pastoralism sustained Eastern Eurasian steppe populations for 5000 years	Archaeology, Dairy, Milk, Mongolia	Dairy pastoralism is integral to contemporary and past lifeways on the eastern Eurasian steppe, facilitating survival in agriculturally challenging environments. While previous research has indicated that ruminant dairy pastoralism was practiced in the region by circa 1300 BC, the origin, extent and diversity of this custom remain poorly understood. Here, we analyse ancient proteins from human dental calculus recovered from geographically diverse locations across Mongolia and spanning 5,000 years. We present the earliest evidence for dairy consumption on the eastern Eurasian steppe by circa 3000 BC and the later emergence of horse milking at circa 1200 BC, concurrent with the first evidence for horse riding. We argue that ruminant dairying contributed to the demographic success of Bronze Age Mongolian populations and that the origins of traditional horse dairy products in eastern Eurasia are closely tied to the regional emergence of mounted herding societies during the late second millennium BC.
PXD021694	32128073	Subpopulations of extracellular vesicles from human metastatic melanoma tissue identified by quantitative proteomics after optimized isolation. 	Isolation and characterization of extracellular vesicles from tissues	Extracellular vesicles, TMT, tandem mass tag	The majority of extracellular vesicle (EV) studies conducted to date have been performed on cell lines with little knowledge on how well these represent the characteristics of EVs in vivo. The aim of this study was to establish a method to isolate and categorize subpopulations of EVs isolated directly from tumour tissue. First we established an isolation protocol for subpopulations of EVs from metastatic melanoma tissue, which included enzymatic treatment (collagenase D and DNase). Small and large EVs were isolated with differential ultracentrifugation, and these were further separated into high and low-density (HD and LD) fractions. All EV subpopulations were then analysed in depth using electron microscopy, Bioanalyzer(R), nanoparticle tracking analysis, and quantitative mass spectrometry analysis. Subpopulations of EVs with distinct size, morphology, and RNA and protein cargo could be isolated from the metastatic melanoma tissue. LD EVs showed an RNA profile with the presence of 18S and 28S ribosomal subunits. In contrast, HD EVs had RNA profiles with small or no peaks for ribosomal RNA subunits. Quantitative proteomics showed that several proteins such as flotillin-1 were enriched in both large and small LD EVs, while ADAM10 were exclusively enriched in small LD EVs. In contrast, mitofilin was enriched only in the large EVs. We conclude that enzymatic treatments improve EV isolation from dense fibrotic tissue without any apparent effect on molecular or morphological characteristics. By providing a detailed categorization of several subpopulations of EVs isolated directly from tumour tissues, we might better understand the function of EVs in tumour biology and their possible use in biomarker discovery.
PXD015559	32128117	Reciprocal transplantation of the heterotrophic coral Tubastraea coccinea (Scleractinia: Dendrophylliidae) between distinct habitats did not alter its venom toxin composition. 	Reciprocal transplantation of the coral Tubastraea coccinea	Sun Coral Transplantation	Tubastraea coccinea is an azooxanthellate coral species recorded in the Indian and Atlantic oceans and is presently widespread in the southwestern Atlantic with an alien status for Brazil. T. coccinea outcompete other native coral species by using a varied repertoire of biological traits. For example, T. coccinea has evolved potent venom capable of immobilizing and digesting zooplankton prey. Diversification and modification of venom toxins can provide potential adaptive benefits to individual fitness, yet acquired alteration of venom composition in cnidarians is poorly understood as the adaptive flexibility affecting toxin composition in these ancient lineages has been largely ignored. We used quantitative high-throughput proteomics to detect changes in toxin expression in clonal fragments of specimens collected and interchanged from two environmentally distinct and geographically separate study sites. Unexpectedly, despite global changes in protein expression, there were no changes in the composition and abundance of toxins from coral fragments recovered from either site, and following clonal transplantation between sites. There were also no apparent changes to the cnidome (cnidae) and gross skeletal or soft tissue morphologies of the specimens. These results suggest that the conserved toxin complexity of T. coccinea co-evolved with innovation of the venom delivery system, and its morphological development and phenotypic expression are not modulated by habitat pressures over short periods of time. The adaptive response of the venom trait to specific predatory regimes, however, necessitates further consideration.
PXD015160	32128395	Stitching the synapse: Cross-linking mass spectrometry into resolving synaptic protein interactions. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometry of synapses purified from mouse brain	cross-linking mass spectrometry, synaptosome	Synaptic transmission is the predominant form of communication in the brain. It requires functionally specialized molecular machineries constituted by thousands of interacting synaptic proteins. Here, we made use of recent advances in cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) in combination with biochemical and computational approaches to reveal the architecture and assembly of synaptic protein complexes from mouse brain hippocampus and cerebellum. We obtained 11,999 unique lysine-lysine cross-links, comprising connections within and between 2362 proteins. This extensive collection was the basis to identify novel protein partners, to model protein conformational dynamics, and to delineate within and between protein interactions of main synaptic constituents, such as Camk2, the AMPA-type glutamate receptor, and associated proteins. Using XL-MS, we generated a protein interaction resource that we made easily accessible via a web-based platform (http://xlink.cncr.nl) to provide new entries into exploration of all protein interactions identified.
PXD016728	32128584	Translational read-through promotes aggregation and shapes stop codon identity. 	UAG suppression in HEK293T cells	UAG suppressor tRNA	Faithful translation of genetic information depends on the ability of the translational machinery to decode stop codons as termination signals. Although termination of protein synthesis is highly efficient, errors in decoding of stop codons may lead to the synthesis of C-terminally extended proteins. It was found that in eukaryotes such elongated proteins do not accumulate in cells. However, the mechanism for sequestration of C-terminally extended proteins is still unknown. Here we show that 3'-UTR-encoded polypeptides promote aggregation of the C-terminally extended proteins, and targeting to lysosomes. We demonstrate that 3'-UTR-encoded polypeptides can promote different levels of protein aggregation, similar to random sequences. We also show that aggregation of endogenous proteins can be induced by aminoglycoside antibiotics that promote stop codon read-through, by UAG suppressor tRNA, or by knokcdown of release factor 1. Furthermore, we find correlation between the fidelity of termination signals, and the predicted propensity of downstream 3'-UTR-encoded polypeptides to form intrinsically disordered regions. Our data highlight a new quality control mechanism for elimination of C-terminally elongated proteins.
PXD014633	32128589	MKL1 deficiency results in a severe neutrophil motility defect due to impaired actin polymerization. 	MKL1 deficiency results in a neutrophil motility defect with impaired actin polymerization and excessive degranulation	Actin poymerization, MKL1, MRTF-A, Neutrophils, SRF	Megakaryoblastic leukemia 1 (MKL1) promotes the regulation of essential cell processes, including actin cytoskeletal dynamics, by coactivating serum response factor. Recently, the first human with MKL1 deficiency, leading to a novel primary immunodeficiency, was identified. We report a second family with 2 siblings with a homozygous frameshift mutation in MKL1. The index case died as an infant from progressive and severe pneumonia caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and poor wound healing. The younger sibling was preemptively transplanted shortly after birth. The immunodeficiency was marked by a pronounced actin polymerization defect and a strongly reduced motility and chemotactic response by MKL1-deficient neutrophils. In addition to the lack of MKL1, subsequent proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of patient neutrophils revealed actin and several actin-related proteins to be downregulated, confirming a role for MKL1 as a transcriptional coregulator. Degranulation was enhanced upon suboptimal neutrophil activation, whereas production of reactive oxygen species was normal. Neutrophil adhesion was intact but without proper spreading. The latter could explain the observed failure in firm adherence and transendothelial migration under flow conditions. No apparent defect in phagocytosis or bacterial killing was found. Also, monocyte-derived macrophages showed intact phagocytosis, and lymphocyte counts and proliferative capacity were normal. Nonhematopoietic primary fibroblasts demonstrated defective differentiation into myofibroblasts but normal migration and F-actin content, most likely as a result of compensatory mechanisms of MKL2, which is not expressed in neutrophils. Our findings extend current insight into the severe immune dysfunction in MKL1 deficiency, with cytoskeletal dysfunction and defective extravasation of neutrophils as the most prominent features.
PXD016273	32129078	Urine Proteomics: Evaluation of Different Sample Preparation Workflows for Quantitative, Reproducible, and Improved Depth of Analysis. 	Comparative evaluation of different sample preparation workflows for reproducible, quantitative, and in-depth analysis of urine proteomics	MStren, S-trap, label-free, preOmics iST, reproducibility, sample preparation, urine proteomics	The growing field of urinary proteomics shows promise to expand the number of biomarkers for the diagnosis and prognosis of a number of human diseases. With the rapid developments in mass spectrometry methods for proteome quantification, there exists an opportunity for improved sample processing and separation workflows to make important contributions to urine proteomic analyses. Here we evaluate the performance of four sample preparation methods: MStern, PreOmics in-StageTip (iST), suspension-trapping (S-Trap), and conventional urea In-Solution trypsin hydrolysis for nondepleted urine samples. Data-dependent acquisition (DDA) mode on a QExactive HF mass spectrometer was used for single-shot label-free data acquisition. Our results demonstrate a high degree of reproducibility within each workflow. PreOmics iST yields the best digestion efficiency, whereas the S-Trap workflow gives the greatest number of peptide and protein identifications. Using the S-Trap method and starting with ~0.5 mL, we identify ~1500 protein groups and ~17 700 peptides from DDA analysis with a single injection on the mass spectrometer.
PXD014199	32129703	Phosphorylation of multiple proteins involved in ciliogenesis by Tau Tubulin kinase 2. 	Phosphorylation of multiple proteins involved in ciliogenesis by Tau Tubulin kinase 2	CCDC92, CEP164, CEP83, CEP89, DVL3, Rabin8, TTBK2, phosphorylation	Primary cilia are organelles necessary for proper implementation of developmental and homeostasis processes. To initiate their assembly, coordinated actions of multiple proteins are needed. Tau tubulin kinase 2 (TTBK2) is a key player in the cilium assembly pathway, controlling the final step of cilia initiation. The function of TTBK2 in ciliogenesis is critically dependent on its kinase activity; however, the precise mechanism of TTBK2 action has so far not been fully understood due to the very limited information about its relevant substrates. In this study, we demonstrate that CEP83, CEP89, CCDC92, Rabin8, and DVL3 are substrates of TTBK2 kinase activity. Further, we characterize a set of phosphosites of those substrates and CEP164 induced by TTBK2 in vitro and in vivo. Intriguingly, we further show that identified TTBK2 phosphosites and consensus sequence delineated from those are distinct from motifs previously assigned to TTBK2. Finally, we show that TTBK2 is also required for efficient phosphorylation of many S/T sites in CEP164 and provide evidence that TTBK2-induced phosphorylations of CEP164 modulate its function, which in turn seems relevant for the process of cilia formation. In summary, our work provides important insight into the substrates-TTBK2 kinase relationship and suggests that phosphorylation of substrates on multiple sites by TTBK2 is probably involved in the control of ciliogenesis in human cells.
PXD016314	32129710	Wnt regulation: exploring Axin-Disheveled interactions and defining mechanisms by which the SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase is recruited to the destruction complex. 	Wnt Regulation: Exploring Axin-Disheveled interactions and defining mechanisms by which the SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase is recruited to the destruction complex	E3 ubiquitin ligase, Wnt signaling	Wnt signaling plays key roles in embryonic development and adult stem cell homeostasis and is altered in human cancer. Signaling is turned on and off by regulating stability of the effector beta-catenin (beta-cat). The multiprotein destruction complex binds and phosphorylates beta-cat and transfers it to the SCF-TrCP E3-ubiquitin ligase for ubiquitination and destruction. Wnt signals act though Dishevelled to turn down the destruction complex, stabilizing beta-cat. Recent work clarified underlying mechanisms, but important questions remain. We explore beta-cat transfer from the destruction complex to the E3 ligase, and test models suggesting Dishevelled and APC2 compete for association with Axin. We find that Slimb/TrCP is a dynamic component of the destruction complex biomolecular condensate, while other E3 proteins are not. Recruitment requires Axin and not APC, and Axin's RGS domain plays an important role. We find that elevating Dishevelled levels in Drosophila embryos has paradoxical effects, promoting the ability of limiting levels of Axin to turn off Wnt signaling. When we elevate Dishevelled levels, it forms its own cytoplasmic puncta, but these do not recruit Axin. Superresolution imaging in mammalian cells raises the possibility that this may result by promoting Dishevelled:Dishevelled interactions at the expense of Dishevelled: Axin interactions when Dishevelled levels are high.
PXD016458	32129764	USP16 counteracts mono-ubiquitination of RPS27a and promotes maturation of the 40S ribosomal subunit. 	AP-MS analysis of human RIOK1 and USP16	AP-MS, DDA, RIOK1, USP16	Establishment of translational competence represents a decisive cytoplasmic step in the biogenesis of 40S ribosomal subunits. This involves final 18S rRNA processing and release of residual biogenesis factors, including the protein kinase RIOK1. To identify novel proteins promoting the final maturation of human 40S subunits, we characterized pre-ribosomal subunits trapped on RIOK1 by mass spectrometry, and identified the deubiquitinase USP16 among the captured factors. We demonstrate that USP16 constitutes a component of late cytoplasmic pre-40S subunits that promotes the removal of ubiquitin from an internal lysine of ribosomal protein RPS27a/eS31. USP16 deletion leads to late 40S subunit maturation defects, manifesting in incomplete processing of 18S rRNA and retarded recycling of late-acting ribosome biogenesis factors, revealing an unexpected contribution of USP16 to the ultimate step of 40S synthesis. Finally, ubiquitination of RPS27a appears to depend on active translation, pointing at a potential connection between 40S maturation and protein synthesis.
PXD014556	32129943	Automated sample preparation with SP3 for low-input clinical proteomics. 	Automated sample preparation with SP3 for low-input clinical proteomics	SP3, automation, clinical proteomics, high-throughput, low-input, pulmonary adenocarcinoma, sample preparation	High-throughput and streamlined workflows are essential in clinical proteomics for standardized processing of samples from a variety of sources, including fresh-frozen tissue, FFPE tissue, or blood. To reach this goal, we have implemented single-pot solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3) on a liquid handling robot for automated processing (autoSP3) of tissue lysates in a 96-well format. AutoSP3 performs unbiased protein purification and digestion, and delivers peptides that can be directly analyzed by LCMS, thereby significantly reducing hands-on time, reducing variability in protein quantification, and improving longitudinal reproducibility. We demonstrate the distinguishing ability of autoSP3 to process low-input samples, reproducibly quantifying 500-1,000 proteins from 100 to 1,000 cells. Furthermore, we applied this approach to a cohort of clinical FFPE pulmonary adenocarcinoma (ADC) samples and recapitulated their separation into known histological growth patterns. Finally, we integrated autoSP3 with AFA ultrasonication for the automated end-to-end sample preparation and LCMS analysis of 96 intact tissue samples. Collectively, this constitutes a generic, scalable, and cost-effective workflow with minimal manual intervention, enabling reproducible tissue proteomics in a broad range of clinical and non-clinical applications.
PXD014879	32130916	PP2AC Phospho-Tyr(307) Antibodies Are Not Specific for this Modification but Are Sensitive to Other PP2AC Modifications Including Leu(309) Methylation. 	Characterization of the C-terminal post-translational modification pattern of the catalytic C subunit of protein phosphatase 2A by mass spectrometry.	C-terminal protein methylation, Protein phosphatase 2A, pTyr307- specific antibodies, tyrosine phosphorylation	Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is an important regulator of signal transduction pathways and a tumor suppressor. Phosphorylation of the PP2A catalytic subunit (PP2AC) at tyrosine 307 has been claimed to inactivate PP2A and was examined in more than 180 studies using commercial antibodies, but this modification was never identified using mass spectrometry. Here we show that the most cited pTyr(307) monoclonal antibodies, E155 and F-8, are not specific for phosphorylated Tyr(307) but instead are hampered by PP2AC methylation at leucine 309 or phosphorylation at threonine 304. Other pTyr(307) antibodies are sensitive to PP2AC methylation as well, and some cross-react with pTyr residues in general, including phosphorylated hemagglutinin tags. We identify pTyr(307) using targeted mass spectrometry after transient overexpression of PP2AC and Src kinase. Yet under such conditions, none of the tested antibodies show exclusive pTyr(307) specificity. Thus, data generated using these antibodies need to be revisited, and the mechanism of PP2A inactivation needs to be redefined.
PXD016457	32132131	Mutagenesis of a Quintuple Mutant Impaired in Environmental Responses Reveals Roles for CHROMATIN REMODELING4 in the Arabidopsis Floral Transition. 	Role of CHR4 during floral transition	APETALA1 (AP1), CHROMATIN REMODELING 4 (CHR4), MADS-box transcription factors, SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-LIKE family, flowering-time	Several pathways conferring environmental flowering responses in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) converge on developmental processes that mediate the floral transition in the shoot apical meristem. Many characterized mutations disrupt these environmental responses, but downstream developmental processes have been more refractory to mutagenesis. Here, we constructed a quintuple mutant impaired in several environmental pathways and showed that it possesses severely reduced flowering responses to changes in photoperiod and ambient temperature. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis of the quintuple mutant showed that the expression of genes encoding gibberellin biosynthesis enzymes and transcription factors involved in the age pathway correlates with flowering. Mutagenesis of the quintuple mutant generated two late-flowering mutants, quintuple ems1 (qem1) and qem2 The mutated genes were identified by isogenic mapping and transgenic complementation. The qem1 mutant is an allele of the gibberellin 20-oxidase gene ga20ox2, confirming the importance of gibberellin for flowering in the absence of environmental responses. By contrast, qem2 is impaired in CHROMATIN REMODELING4 (CHR4), which has not been genetically implicated in floral induction. Using co-immunoprecipitation, RNA-seq, and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing, we show that CHR4 interacts with transcription factors involved in floral meristem identity and affects the expression of key floral regulators. Therefore, CHR4 mediates the response to endogenous flowering pathways in the inflorescence meristem to promote floral identity.
PXD016563	32132230	Quantitative Profiling of the Human Substantia Nigra Proteome from Laser-capture Microdissected FFPE Tissue. 	Laser-capture proteomics of human FFPE substantia nigra	FFPE, TMT, laser-capture microdissection, substantia nigra	Laser-capture microdissection (LCM) allows the visualization and isolation of morphologically distinct subpopulations of cells from heterogeneous tissue specimens. In combination with formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue it provides a powerful tool for retrospective and clinically relevant studies of tissue proteins in a healthy and diseased context. We first optimized the protocol for efficient LCM analysis of FFPE tissue specimens. The use of SDS containing extraction buffer in combination with the single-pot solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3) digest method gave the best results regarding protein yield and protein/peptide identifications. Microdissected FFPE human substantia nigra tissue samples (~3,000 cells) were then analyzed, using tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling and LC-MS/MS, resulting in the quantification of >5,600 protein groups. Nigral proteins were classified and analyzed by abundance, showing an enrichment of extracellular exosome and neuron-specific gene ontology (GO) terms among the higher abundance proteins. Comparison of microdissected samples with intact tissue sections, using a label-free shotgun approach, revealed an enrichment of neuronal cell type markers, such as tyrosine hydroxylase and alpha-synuclein, as well as proteins annotated with neuron-specific GO terms. Overall, this study provides a detailed protocol for laser-capture proteomics using FFPE tissue and demonstrates the efficiency of LCM analysis of distinct cell subpopulations for proteomic analysis using low sample amounts.
PXD015307	32132231	Discovery of a Redox Thiol Switch: Implications for Cellular Energy Metabolism. 	Quantitative profiling of protein sulfhydrome by the BTA-TMT	Cysteine sulfhydration, TMT	The redox-based modifications of cysteine residues in proteins regulate their function in many biological processes. The gas molecule H2S has been shown to persulfidate redox sensitive cysteine residues resulting in an H2S-modified proteome known as the sulfhydrome. Tandem Mass Tags (TMT) multiplexing strategies for large-scale proteomic analyses have become increasingly prevalent in detecting cysteine modifications. Here we developed a TMT-based proteomics approach for selectively trapping and tagging cysteine persulfides in the cellular proteomes. We revealed the natural protein sulfhydrome of two human cell lines, and identified insulin as a novel substrate in pancreatic beta cells. Moreover, we showed that under oxidative stress conditions, increased H2S can target enzymes involved in energy metabolism by switching specific cysteine modifications to persulfides. Specifically, we discovered a Redox Thiol Switch, from protein S-glutathioinylation to S-persulfidation (RTS(GS)). We propose that the RTS(GS) from S-glutathioinylation to S-persulfidation is a potential mechanism to fine tune cellular energy metabolism in response to different levels of oxidative stress.
PXD016399	32132673	The PIWI protein Aubergine recruits eIF3 to activate translation in the germ plasm. 	Aubergine protein interactors in 0-2 hour-Drosophila embryos	Aub, Drosophila, PIWI protein, embryos, translation	Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) and PIWI proteins are essential in germ cells to repress transposons and regulate mRNAs. In Drosophila, piRNAs bound to the PIWI protein Aubergine (Aub) are transferred maternally to the embryo and regulate maternal mRNA stability through two opposite roles. They target mRNAs by incomplete base pairing, leading to their destabilization in the soma and stabilization in the germ plasm. Here, we report a function of Aub in translation. Aub is required for translational activation of nanos mRNA, a key determinant of the germ plasm. Aub physically interacts with the poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) and the translation initiation factor eIF3. Polysome gradient profiling reveals the role of Aub at the initiation step of translation. In the germ plasm, PABP and eIF3d assemble in foci that surround Aub-containing germ granules, and Aub acts with eIF3d to promote nanos translation. These results identify translational activation as a new mode of mRNA regulation by Aub, highlighting the versatility of PIWI proteins in mRNA regulation.
PXD012078	32133789	Identification of signal peptide features for substrate specificity in human Sec62/Sec63-dependent ER protein import. 	Substrates of human Sec62/Sec63 complex	ER protein import, HEK 293, HeLa	In mammalian cells, one-third of all polypeptides are integrated into the membrane or translocated into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via the Sec61 channel. While the Sec61 complex facilitates ER import of most precursor polypeptides, the Sec61-associated Sec62/Sec63 complex supports ER import in a substrate-specific manner. So far, mainly posttranslationally imported precursors and the two cotranslationally imported precursors of ERj3 and prion protein were found to depend on the Sec62/Sec63 complex in vitro. Therefore, we determined the rules for engagement of Sec62/Sec63 in ER import in intact human cells using a recently established unbiased proteomics approach. In addition to confirming ERj3, we identified 22 novel Sec62/Sec63 substrates under these in vivo-like conditions. As a common feature, those previously unknown substrates share signal peptides (SP) with comparatively longer but less hydrophobic hydrophobic region of SP and lower carboxy-terminal region of SP (C-region) polarity. Further analyses with four substrates, and ERj3 in particular, revealed the combination of a slowly gating SP and a downstream translocation-disruptive positively charged cluster of amino acid residues as decisive for the Sec62/Sec63 requirement. In the case of ERj3, these features were found to be responsible for an additional immunoglobulin heavy-chain binding protein (BiP) requirement and to correlate with sensitivity toward the Sec61-channel inhibitor CAM741. Thus, the human Sec62/Sec63 complex may support Sec61-channel opening for precursor polypeptides with slowly gating SPs by direct interaction with the cytosolic amino-terminal peptide of Sec61alpha or via recruitment of BiP and its interaction with the ER-lumenal loop 7 of Sec61alpha. These novel insights into the mechanism of human ER protein import contribute to our understanding of the etiology of SEC63-linked polycystic liver disease. DATABASES: The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/projects/Identifiers) with the dataset identifiers: PXD008178, PXD011993, and PXD012078. Supplementary information was deposited at Mendeley Data (https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/6s5hn73jcv/2).
PXD017117	32134139	Infection-driven activation of transglutaminase 2 boosts glucose uptake and hexosamine biosynthesis in epithelial cells. 	Infection-driven activation of transglutaminase 2  boosts glucose uptake and hexosamine biosynthesis	Chlamydia, GFPT, Hexosamine biosynthesis, O-GlcNAcylation, Transglutaminase 2	Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) is a ubiquitously expressed enzyme with transamidating activity. We report here that both expression and activity of TG2 are enhanced in mammalian epithelial cells infected with the obligate intracellular bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of TG2 impairs bacterial development. We show that TG2 increases glucose import by up-regulating the transcription of the glucose transporter genes GLUT-1 and GLUT-3. Furthermore, TG2 activation drives one specific glucose-dependent pathway in the host, i.e., hexosamine biosynthesis. Mechanistically, we identify the glucosamine:fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase (GFPT) among the substrates of TG2. GFPT modification by TG2 increases its enzymatic activity, resulting in higher levels of UDP-N-acetylglucosamine biosynthesis and protein O-GlcNAcylation. The correlation between TG2 transamidating activity and O-GlcNAcylation is disrupted in infected cells because host hexosamine biosynthesis is being exploited by the bacteria, in particular to assist their division. In conclusion, our work establishes TG2 as a key player in controlling glucose-derived metabolic pathways in mammalian cells, themselves hijacked by C. trachomatis to sustain their own metabolic needs.
PXD017238	32134144	Structural basis for centromere maintenance by Drosophila CENP-A chaperone CAL1. 	Structural Basis for CAL1-Mediated Centromere Maintenance	CAL1/CENP-A/CENP-C/centromeres/chromosome segregation	Centromeres are microtubule attachment sites on chromosomes defined by the enrichment of histone variant CENP-A-containing nucleosomes. To preserve centromere identity, CENP-A must be escorted to centromeres by a CENP-A-specific chaperone for deposition. Despite this essential requirement, many eukaryotes differ in the composition of players involved in centromere maintenance, highlighting the plasticity of this process. In humans, CENP-A recognition and centromere targeting are achieved by HJURP and the Mis18 complex, respectively. Using X-ray crystallography, we here show how Drosophila CAL1, an evolutionarily distinct CENP-A histone chaperone, binds both CENP-A and the centromere receptor CENP-C without the requirement for the Mis18 complex. While an N-terminal CAL1 fragment wraps around CENP-A/H4 through multiple physical contacts, a C-terminal CAL1 fragment directly binds a CENP-C cupin domain dimer. Although divergent at the primary structure level, CAL1 thus binds CENP-A/H4 using evolutionarily conserved and adaptive structural principles. The CAL1 binding site on CENP-C is strategically positioned near the cupin dimerisation interface, restricting binding to just one CAL1 molecule per CENP-C dimer. Overall, by demonstrating how CAL1 binds CENP-A/H4 and CENP-C, we provide key insights into the minimalistic principles underlying centromere maintenance.
PXD013993	32134668	Comparative Analysis of Quantitative Mass Spectrometric Methods for Subcellular Proteomics. 	Differential-Nycodenz (TMT-MS2)	Differential, Nycodenz, TMT-MS2	Knowledge of intracellular location can provide important insights into the function of proteins and their respective organelles, and there is interest in combining classical subcellular fractionation with quantitative mass spectrometry to create global cellular maps. To evaluate mass spectrometric approaches specifically for this application, we analyzed rat liver differential centrifugation and Nycodenz density gradient subcellular fractions by tandem mass tag (TMT) isobaric labeling with reporter ion measurement at the MS2 and MS3 level and with two different label-free peak integration approaches, MS1 and data independent acquisition (DIA). TMT-MS2 provided the greatest proteome coverage, but ratio compression from contaminating background ions resulted in a narrower accurate dynamic range compared to TMT-MS3, MS1, and DIA, which were similar. Using a protein clustering approach to evaluate data quality by assignment of reference proteins to their correct compartments, all methods performed well, with isobaric labeling approaches providing the highest quality localization. Finally, TMT-MS2 gave the lowest percentage of missing quantifiable data when analyzing orthogonal fractionation methods containing overlapping proteomes. In summary, despite inaccuracies resulting from ratio compression, data obtained by TMT-MS2 assigned protein localization as well as other methods but achieved the highest proteome coverage with the lowest proportion of missing values.
PXD016867	32134928	Histone H4 dosage modulates DNA damage response in the pathogenic yeast Candida glabrata via homologous recombination pathway. 	Interactome identification of Histones H3 and H4 in the presence and absence of methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) in the pathogenic yeast Candida glabrata	DNA damage stress, Histone H3 and H4, SFB (S-protein-FLAG epitope-streptavidin-binding peptide) triple epitope, Tandem affinity purification	Candida glabrata, a nosocomial fungal bloodstream pathogen, causes significant morbidity and mortality in hospitals worldwide. The ability to replicate in macrophages and survive a high level of oxidative stress contributes to its virulence in the mammalian host. However, the role of DNA repair and recombination mechanisms in its pathobiology is still being discovered. Here, we have characterized the response of C. glabrata to the methyl methanesulfonate (MMS)-induced DNA damage. We found that the MMS exposure triggered a significant downregulation of histone H4 transcript and protein levels, and that, the damaged DNA was repaired by the homologous recombination (HR) pathway. Consistently, the reduced H4 gene dosage was associated with increased HR frequency and elevated resistance to MMS. The genetic analysis found CgRad52, a DNA strand exchange-promoter protein of the HR system, to be essential for this MMS resistance. Further, the tandem-affinity purification and mass spectrometry analysis revealed a substantially smaller interactome of H4 in MMS-treated cells. Among 23 identified proteins, we found the WD40-repeat protein CgCmr1 to interact genetically and physically with H4, and regulate H4 levels, HR pathway and MMS stress survival. Controlling H4 levels tightly is therefore a regulatory mechanism to survive MMS stress in C. glabrata.
PXD016666	32135190	Efficient Catalysis of Protein Folding by GroEL/ES of the Obligate Chaperonin Substrate MetF. 	GroEL interaction and folding of MetF studied by hydrogen/deuterium exchange - mass spectrometry	GroEL, MetF, chaperone, chaperonin, folding, hydrogen/deuterium exchange	The cylindrical chaperonin GroEL and its cofactor GroES mediate ATP-dependent protein folding in Escherichia coli by transiently encapsulating non-native substrate in a nano-cage formed by the GroEL ring cavity and the lid-shaped GroES. Mechanistic studies of GroEL/ES with heterologous protein substrates suggested that the chaperonin is inefficient, typically requiring multiple ATP-dependent encapsulation cycles with only a few percent of protein folded per cycle. Here we analyzed the spontaneous and chaperonin-assisted folding of the essential enzyme 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MetF) of E. coli, an obligate GroEL/ES substrate. We found that MetF, a homotetramer of 33-kDa subunits with (beta/alpha)8 TIM-barrel fold, populates a kinetically trapped folding intermediate(s) (MetF-I) upon dilution from denaturant that fails to convert to the native state, even in the absence of aggregation. GroEL/ES recognizes MetF-I and catalyzes rapid folding, with ~50% of protein folded in a single round of encapsulation. Analysis by hydrogen/deuterium exchange at peptide resolution showed that the MetF subunit folds to completion in the GroEL/ES nano-cage and binds its cofactor flavin adenine dinucleotide. Rapid folding required the net negative charge character of the wall of the chaperonin cavity. These findings reveal a remarkable capacity of GroEL/ES to catalyze folding of an endogenous substrate protein that would have coevolved with the chaperonin system.
PXD016577	32138239	Good Vibrations: Structural Remodeling of Maturing Yeast Pre-40S Ribosomal Particles Followed by Cryo-Electron Microscopy. 	Proteomics analysis of Tsr1-purified yeast pre-40S particles	Tsr1, pre-40S particles, ribosome	Assembly of eukaryotic ribosomal subunits is a very complex and sequential process that starts in the nucleolus and finishes in the cytoplasm with the formation of functional ribosomes. Over the past few years, characterization of the many molecular events underlying eukaryotic ribosome biogenesis has been drastically improved by the "resolution revolution" of cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM). However, if very early maturation events have been well characterized for both yeast ribosomal subunits, little is known regarding the final maturation steps occurring to the small (40S) ribosomal subunit. To try to bridge this gap, we have used proteomics together with cryo-EM and single particle analysis to characterize yeast pre-40S particles containing the ribosome biogenesis factor Tsr1. Our analyses lead us to refine the timing of the early pre-40S particle maturation steps. Furthermore, we suggest that after an early and structurally stable stage, the beak and platform domains of pre-40S particles enter a "vibrating" or "wriggling" stage, that might be involved in the final maturation of 18S rRNA as well as the fitting of late ribosomal proteins into their mature position.
PXD009783	32138363	Probing the Environment of Emerin by Enhanced Ascorbate Peroxidase 2 (APEX2)-Mediated Proximity Labeling. 	Proteomic proximity mapping by rapamycin-dependent targeting of APEX2	APEX, APEX2, SILAC, proximity labeling	Emerin is one of the best characterized proteins of the inner nuclear membrane, but can also occur at the level of the endoplasmic reticulum. We now use enhanced ascorbate peroxidase 2 (APEX2) to probe the environment of emerin. APEX2 can be used as a genetic tag that produces short-lived yet highly reactive biotin species, allowing the modification of proteins that interact with or are in very close proximity to the tagged protein. Biotinylated proteins can be isolated using immobilized streptavidin and analyzed by mass spectrometry. As an alternative to the standard approach with a genetic fusion of APEX2 to emerin, we also used RAPIDS (rapamycin- and APEX-dependent identification of proteins by SILAC), a method with improved specificity, where the peroxidase interacts with the protein of interest (i.e., emerin) only upon addition of rapamycin to the cells. We compare these different approaches, which, together, identify well-known interaction partners of emerin like lamin A and the lamina associated polypeptide 1 (LAP1), as well as novel proximity partners.
PXD016613	32138514	Bait Correlation Improves Interactor Identification by Tandem Mass Tag-Affinity Purification-Mass Spectrometry. 	Bait correlation improves interactor identification by TMT-AP-MS	AP-MS, Protein-protein interactions, TMT	The quantitative multiplexing capacity of isobaric tandem mass tags (TMT) has increased the throughput of affinity purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS) to characterize protein interaction networks of immunoprecipitated bait proteins. However, variable bait levels between replicates can convolute interactor identification. We compared the Student's t-test and Pearson's R correlation as methods to generate t-statistics and assessed the significance of interactors following TMT-AP-MS. Using a simple linear model of protein recovery in immunoprecipitates to simulate reporter ion ratio distributions, we found that correlation-derived t-statistics protect against bait variance while robustly controlling type I errors (false positives). We experimentally determined the performance of these two approaches for determining t-statistics under two experimental conditions: irreversible prey association to the Hsp40 mutant DNAJB8(H31Q) followed by stringent washing, and reversible association to 14-3-3zeta with gentle washing. Correlation-derived t-statistics performed at least as well as Student's t-statistics for each sample and with substantial improvement in performance for experiments with high bait-level variance. Deliberately varying bait levels over a large range fails to improve selectivity but does increase the robustness between runs. The use of correlation-derived t-statistics should improve identification of interactors using TMT-AP-MS. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016613.
PXD014031	32139545	Pervasive functional translation of noncanonical human open reading frames. 	Pervasive functional micropeptides in humans encoded by non-canonical open reading frames	CRISPR, LCMS, Ribosome sequencing, Single cell RNA analysis, novel ORFs	Ribosome profiling has revealed pervasive but largely uncharacterized translation outside of canonical coding sequences (CDSs). In this work, we exploit a systematic CRISPR-based screening strategy to identify hundreds of noncanonical CDSs that are essential for cellular growth and whose disruption elicits specific, robust transcriptomic and phenotypic changes in human cells. Functional characterization of the encoded microproteins reveals distinct cellular localizations, specific protein binding partners, and hundreds of microproteins that are presented by the human leukocyte antigen system. We find multiple microproteins encoded in upstream open reading frames, which form stable complexes with the main, canonical protein encoded on the same messenger RNA, thereby revealing the use of functional bicistronic operons in mammals. Together, our results point to a family of functional human microproteins that play critical and diverse cellular roles.
PXD017182	32139701	Primary tumors release ITGBL1-rich extracellular vesicles to promote distal metastatic tumor growth through fibroblast-niche formation. 	Co-IP and LC-MS/MS analysis for probing the binding partners of ITGBL1 in fibroblasts	Co-IP, ITGBL1, binding partners, fibroblasts	Tumor metastasis is a hallmark of cancer. Metastatic cancer cells often reside in distal tissues and organs in their dormant state. Mechanisms underlying the pre-metastatic niche formation are poorly understood. Here we show that in a colorectal cancer (CRC) model, primary tumors release integrin beta-like 1 (ITGBL1)-rich extracellular vesicles (EVs) to the circulation to activate resident fibroblasts in remote organs. The activated fibroblasts induce the pre-metastatic niche formation and promote metastatic cancer growth by secreting pro-inflammatory cytokine, such as IL-6 and IL-8. Mechanistically, the primary CRC-derived ITGBL1-enriched EVs stimulate the TNFAIP3-mediated NF-kappaB signaling pathway to activate fibroblasts. Consequently, the activated fibroblasts produce high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines to promote metastatic cancer growth. These findings uncover a tumor-stromal interaction in the metastatic tumor microenvironment and an intimate signaling communication between primary tumors and metastases through the ITGBL1-loaded EVs. Targeting the EVs-ITGBL1-CAFs-TNFAIP3-NF-kappaB signaling axis provides an attractive approach for treating metastatic diseases.
PXD016158	32141134	Quantification of exercise-regulated ubiquitin signaling in human skeletal muscle identifies protein modification cross talk via NEDDylation. 	Quantification of exercise-regulated ubiquitin-signalling	exercise, ubiquitin	The maintenance of muscle function is extremely important for whole body health and exercise is essential to this process. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is required for muscle adaptation following exercise but little is known about acute posttranslational regulation and proteome remodeling during and after high-intensity exercise. Here, we used quantitative proteomics to study ubiquitin signaling dynamics in human skeletal muscle biopsies from healthy males before, during, and after a single bout of high-intensity exercise. Exercise resulted in a marked depletion of protein ubiquitylation in the vastus lateralis muscle consistent with proteasome activation. This was also associated with acute posttranslational modification of protein abundance. Integration of these data with phosphoproteomics identified co-regulated proximal modifications suggesting a cross talk between phosphorylation and ubiquitylation. We also identified additional protein modification cross talk and showed acute activation of protein NEDDylation. In vitro experiments revealed that cAMP-dependent activation of the proteasome requires NEDD8, an ubiquitin-like protein involved in protein NEDDylation, to maintain cellular protein ubiquitylation levels. Our data reveal the complexity of ubiquitin signaling and proteome remodeling in muscle during and after high-intensity exercise. We propose a model whereby exercise and the resulting cAMP signaling activate both the proteasome and ubiquitylation via NEDDylation to rapidly remove potentially damaged proteins.
PXD014174	32141148	beta-Glucan is a major growth substrate for human gut bacteria related to Coprococcus eutactus. 	Beta-glucan is a major growth substrate for human gut bacteria related to Coprococcus eutactus	Coprococcus eutactus, beta-glucan	A clone encoding carboxymethyl cellulase activity was isolated during functional screening of a human gut metagenomic library using Lactococcus lactis MG1363 as heterologous host. The insert carried a glycoside hydrolase family 9 (GH9) catalytic domain with sequence similarity to a gene from Coprococcus eutactus ART55/1. Genome surveys indicated a limited distribution of GH9 domains among dominant human colonic anaerobes. Genomes of C. eutactus-related strains harboured two GH9-encoding and four GH5-encoding genes, but the strains did not appear to degrade cellulose. Instead, they grew well on beta-glucans and one of the strains also grew on galactomannan, galactan, glucomannan and starch. Coprococcus comes and Coprococcus catus strains did not harbour GH9 genes and were not able to grow on beta-glucans. Gene expression and proteomic analysis of C. eutactus ART55/1 grown on cellobiose, beta-glucan and lichenan revealed similar changes in expression in comparison to glucose. On beta-glucan and lichenan only, one of the four GH5 genes was strongly upregulated. Growth on glucomannan led to a transcriptional response of many genes, in particular a strong upregulation of glycoside hydrolases involved in mannan degradation. Thus, beta-glucans are a major growth substrate for species related to C. eutactus, with glucomannan and galactans alternative substrates for some strains.
PXD017048	32141294	Tryp-N: A Thermostable Protease for the Production of N-terminal Argininyl and Lysinyl Peptides. 	Tryp-N: A thermostable protease for the production of N-terminal argininyl and lysinyl peptides	Lys-N, LysargiNase, Tryp-N, arginine, lysine, metalloprotease, thermostable, trypsin, ulilysin	Bottom-up proteomics is a mainstay in protein identification and analysis. These studies typically employ proteolytic treatment of biological samples to generate suitably sized peptides for tandem mass spectrometric (MS) analysis. In MS, fragmentation of peptides is largely driven by charge localization. Consequently, peptides with basic centers exclusively on their N-termini produce mainly b-ions. Thus, it was long ago realized that proteases that yield such peptides would be valuable proteomic tools for achieving simplified peptide fragmentation patterns and peptide assignment. Work by several groups has identified such proteases, however, structural analysis of these suggested that enzymatic optimization was possible. We therefore endeavored to find enzymes that could provide enhanced activity and versatility while maintaining specificity. Using these previously described proteases as informatic search templates, we discovered and then characterized a thermophilic metalloprotease with N-terminal specificity for arginine and lysine. This enzyme, dubbed Tryp-N, affords many advantages including improved thermostability, solvent and detergent tolerance, and rapid digestion time.
PXD014902	32142985	Changes in water loss and cell wall metabolism during postharvest withering of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) leaves using tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics approach. 	dehydration and cell wall metabolism in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) leaves withering	TMT-based quantitative proteomics, cell wall metabolism, dehydration, postharvest tobacco leaves, withering	Withering is an important biological process accompanied by dehydration and cell wall metabolism in postharvest plant organs during curing/processing and storage. However, dynamics involved in cell wall metabolism and resultant water loss during withering in postharvest tobacco leaves is not well-documented. Here, tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic analysis in postharvest tobacco leaves (cultivar K326) under different withering conditions was performed. In total, 11,556 proteins were detected, among which 496 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified. To elucidate the withering mechanism of tobacco leaves, 27 DAPs associated with cell wall metabolism were screened. In particular, pectin acetylesterases, glucan endo-1,3-beta-glucosidases, xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase, alpha-xylosidase 1-like, probable galactinol-sucrose galactosyltransferases, endochitinase A, chitotriosidase-1-like and expansin were the key proteins responsible for the withering of postharvest tobacco leaves. These DAPs were mainly involved in pectin metabolism, cellulose, hemicellulose and galactose metabolism, amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism as well as cell wall expansion. Furthermore, relative water content and softness values were significantly and positively correlated. Thus, dehydration and cell wall metabolism were crucial for tobacco leaf withering under different conditions. Nine candidate DAPs were confirmed by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) technique. These results provide new insights into the withering mechanism underlying postharvest physiological regulatory networks in plants/crops.
PXD015500	32143687	Estimating relative biomasses of organisms in microbiota using "phylopeptidomics". 	Estimation of relative biomasses in microbiota	bioinformatics, biomass, metaproteomics, microbiota	BACKGROUND: There is an important need for the development of fast and robust methods to quantify the diversity and temporal dynamics of microbial communities in complex environmental samples. Because tandem mass spectrometry allows rapid inspection of protein content, metaproteomics is increasingly used for the phenotypic analysis of microbiota across many fields, including biotechnology, environmental ecology, and medicine. RESULTS: Here, we present a new method for identifying the biomass contribution of any given organism based on a signature describing the number of peptide sequences shared with all other organisms, calculated by mathematical modeling and phylogenetic relationships. This so-called "phylopeptidomics" principle allows for the calculation of the relative ratios of peptide-specified taxa by the linear combination of such signatures applied to an experimental metaproteomic dataset. We illustrate its efficiency using artificial mixtures of two closely related pathogens of clinical interest, and with more complex microbiota models. CONCLUSIONS: This approach paves the way to a new vision of taxonomic changes and accurate label-free quantitative metaproteomics for fine-tuned functional characterization. Video abstract.
PXD017661	32143690	Identification of the initial molecular changes in response to circulating angiogenic cells-mediated therapy in critical limb ischemia. 	Identification of the initial molecular changes in response to Circulating Angiogenic Cells-mediated therapy in Critical Limb Ischemia	angiogenesis, cell movement, circulating endothelial cells, critical limb ischemia	BACKGROUND: Critical limb ischemia (CLI) constitutes the most aggressive form of peripheral arterial occlusive disease, characterized by the blockade of arteries supplying blood to the lower extremities, significantly diminishing oxygen and nutrient supply. CLI patients usually undergo amputation of fingers, feet, or extremities, with a high risk of mortality due to associated comorbidities. Circulating angiogenic cells (CACs), also known as early endothelial progenitor cells, constitute promising candidates for cell therapy in CLI due to their assigned vascular regenerative properties. Preclinical and clinical assays with CACs have shown promising results. A better understanding of how these cells participate in vascular regeneration would significantly help to potentiate their role in revascularization. Herein, we analyzed the initial molecular mechanisms triggered by human CACs after being administered to a murine model of CLI, in order to understand how these cells promote angiogenesis within the ischemic tissues. METHODS: Balb-c nude mice (n:24) were distributed in four different groups: healthy controls (C, n:4), shams (SH, n:4), and ischemic mice (after femoral ligation) that received either 50 mul physiological serum (SC, n:8) or 5 x 10(5) human CACs (SE, n:8). Ischemic mice were sacrificed on days 2 and 4 (n:4/group/day), and immunohistochemistry assays and qPCR amplification of Alu-human-specific sequences were carried out for cell detection and vascular density measurements. Additionally, a label-free MS-based quantitative approach was performed to identify protein changes related. RESULTS: Administration of CACs induced in the ischemic tissues an increase in the number of blood vessels as well as the diameter size compared to ischemic, non-treated mice, although the number of CACs decreased within time. The initial protein changes taking place in response to ischemia and more importantly, right after administration of CACs to CLI mice, are shown. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that CACs migrate to the injured area; moreover, they trigger protein changes correlated with cell migration, cell death, angiogenesis, and arteriogenesis in the host. These changes indicate that CACs promote from the beginning an increase in the number of vessels as well as the development of an appropriate vascular network.
PXD017349	32144105	The Iron Deficiency Response of Corynebacterium glutamicum and a Link to Thiamine Biosynthesis. 	Iron deficiency response of Corynebacterium glutamicum	Corynebacterium glutamicum, iron	The response to iron limitation of the Gram-positive soil bacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum was analyzed with respect to secreted metabolites, the transcriptome, and the proteome. During growth in glucose minimal medium, iron limitation caused a shift from lactate to pyruvate as the major secreted organic acid complemented by l-alanine and 2-oxoglutarate. Transcriptome and proteome analyses revealed that a pronounced iron starvation response governed by the transcriptional regulators DtxR and RipA was detectable in the late, but not in the early, exponential-growth phase. A link between iron starvation and thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) biosynthesis was uncovered by the strong upregulation of thiC As phosphomethylpyrimidine synthase (ThiC) contains an iron-sulfur cluster, limiting activities of the TPP-dependent pyruvate-2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase supercomplex probably cause the excretion of pyruvate and 2-oxoglutarate. In line with this explanation, thiamine supplementation could strongly diminish the secretion of these acids. The upregulation of thiC and other genes involved in thiamine biosynthesis and transport is presumably due to TPP riboswitches present at the 5' end of the corresponding operons. The results obtained in this study provide new insights into iron homeostasis in C. glutamicum and demonstrate that the metabolic consequences of iron limitation can be due to the iron dependency of coenzyme biosynthesis.IMPORTANCE Iron is an essential element for most organisms but causes problems due to poor solubility under oxic conditions and due to toxicity by catalyzing the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Therefore, bacteria have evolved complex regulatory networks for iron homeostasis aiming at a sufficient iron supply while minimizing ROS formation. In our study, the responses of the actinobacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum to iron limitation were analyzed, resulting in a detailed view on the processes involved in iron homeostasis in this model organism. In particular, we provide evidence that iron limitation causes TPP deficiency, presumably due to insufficient activity of the iron-dependent phosphomethylpyrimidine synthase (ThiC). TPP deficiency was deduced from the upregulation of genes controlled by a TPP riboswitch and secretion of metabolites caused by insufficient activity of the TPP-dependent enzymes pyruvate dehydrogenase and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase. To our knowledge, the link between iron starvation and thiamine synthesis has not been elaborated previously.
PXD015282	32144273	Two distinct modes of DNMT1 recruitment ensure stable maintenance DNA methylation. 	DNMT1 IP-MS alalysis to identify ubiquitin-dependent interacting partners	DNMT1 ubiquitin	Stable inheritance of DNA methylation is critical for maintaining differentiated phenotypes in multicellular organisms. We have recently identified dual mono-ubiquitylation of histone H3 (H3Ub2) by UHRF1 as an essential mechanism to recruit DNMT1 to chromatin. Here, we show that PCNA-associated factor 15 (PAF15) undergoes UHRF1-dependent dual mono-ubiquitylation (PAF15Ub2) on chromatin in a DNA replication-coupled manner. This event will, in turn, recruit DNMT1. During early S-phase, UHRF1 preferentially ubiquitylates PAF15, whereas H3Ub2 predominates during late S-phase. H3Ub2 is enhanced under PAF15 compromised conditions, suggesting that H3Ub2 serves as a backup for PAF15Ub2. In mouse ES cells, loss of PAF15Ub2 results in DNA hypomethylation at early replicating domains. Together, our results suggest that there are two distinct mechanisms underlying replication timing-dependent recruitment of DNMT1 through PAF15Ub2 and H3Ub2, both of which are prerequisite for high fidelity DNA methylation inheritance.
PXD017128	32144388	Synaptamide activates the adhesion GPCR GPR110 (ADGRF1) through GAIN domain binding. 	Synaptamide activates the adhesion GPCR GPR110 through conformational changes induced by GAIN domain binding	GAIN domain, GPR110, conformational changes, in-cell cross-linking	Adhesion G protein-coupled receptors (aGPCR) are characterized by a large extracellular region containing a conserved GPCR-autoproteolysis-inducing (GAIN) domain. Despite their relevance to several disease conditions, we do not understand the molecular mechanism by which aGPCRs are physiologically activated. GPR110 (ADGRF1) was recently deorphanized as the functional receptor of N-docosahexaenoylethanolamine (synaptamide), a potent synaptogenic metabolite of docosahexaenoic acid. Thus far, synaptamide is the first and only small-molecule endogenous ligand of an aGPCR. Here, we demonstrate the molecular basis of synaptamide-induced activation of GPR110 in living cells. Using in-cell chemical cross-linking/mass spectrometry, computational modeling and mutagenesis-assisted functional assays, we discover that synaptamide specifically binds to the interface of GPR110 GAIN subdomains through interactions with residues Q511, N512 and Y513, causing an intracellular conformational change near TM6 that triggers downstream signaling. This ligand-induced GAIN-targeted activation mechanism provides a framework for understanding the physiological function of aGPCRs and therapeutic targeting in the GAIN domain.
PXD011583	32144867	Host expression system modulates recombinant Hsp70 activity through post-translational modifications. 	Post-Translational Modifications of recombinant Hsp70s expressed in different systems can alter their functional properties	HSP70, PTM Proteomics, Post-Translational Modifications, QE	The use of model organisms for recombinant protein production results in the addition of model-specific post-translational modifications (PTMs) that can affect the structure, charge, and function of the protein. The 70-kDa heat shock proteins (Hsp70) were originally described as intracellular chaperones, with ATPase and foldase activity. More recently, new extracellular activities of Hsp70 proteins (e.g. as immunomodulators) have been identified. While some studies indicate an inflammatory potential for extracellular Hsp70 proteins, others suggest an immunosuppressive activity. We hypothesized that the production of recombinant Hsp70 in different expression systems would result in the addition of different PTMs, perhaps explaining at least some of these opposing immunological outcomes. We produced and purified Mycobacterium tuberculosis DnaK from two different systems, Escherichia coli and Pichia pastoris, and analyzed by mass spectrometry the protein preparations, investigating the impact of PTMs in an in silico and in vitro perspective. The comparisons of DnaK structures in silico highlighted that electrostatic and topographical differences exist that are dependent upon the expression system. Production of DnaK in the eukaryotic system dramatically affected its ATPase activity, and significantly altered its ability to downregulate MHC II and CD86 expression on murine dendritic cells (DCs). Phosphatase treatment of DnaK indicated that some of these differences related specifically to phosphorylation. Altogether, our data indicate that PTMs are an important characteristic of the expression system, with differences that impact interactions of Hsps with their ligands and subsequent functional activities.
PXD012709	32145456	Nuclear inclusions of pathogenic ataxin-1 induce oxidative stress and perturb the protein synthesis machinery. 	PolyQ-expanded ataxin-1 formed insoluble protein inclusions perturbing translation in a spinocerebellar ataxia type-1 model	AFM, Ataxin-1, RNA-seq, Sleeping Beauty transposon, nucleolus., polyglutamine, protein network, ribosome, spinocerebellar ataxia type-1	Spinocerebellar ataxia type-1 (SCA1) is caused by an abnormally expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) tract in ataxin-1. These expansions are responsible for protein misfolding and self-assembly into intranuclear inclusion bodies (IIBs) that are somehow linked to neuronal death. However, owing to lack of a suitable cellular model, the downstream consequences of IIB formation are yet to be resolved. Here, we describe a nuclear protein aggregation model of pathogenic human ataxin-1 and characterize IIB effects. Using an inducible Sleeping Beauty transposon system, we overexpressed the ATXN1(Q82) gene in human mesenchymal stem cells that are resistant to the early cytotoxic effects caused by the expression of the mutant protein. We characterized the structure and the protein composition of insoluble polyQ IIBs which gradually occupy the nuclei and are responsible for the generation of reactive oxygen species. In response to their formation, our transcriptome analysis reveals a cerebellum-specific perturbed protein interaction network, primarily affecting protein synthesis. We propose that insoluble polyQ IIBs cause oxidative and nucleolar stress and affect the assembly of the ribosome by capturing or down-regulating essential components. The inducible cell system can be utilized to decipher the cellular consequences of polyQ protein aggregation. Our strategy provides a broadly applicable methodology for studying polyQ diseases.
PXD017514	32146728	Integrated Seed Proteome and Phosphoproteome Analyses Reveal Interplay of Nutrient Dynamics, Carbon-Nitrogen Partitioning, and Oxidative Signaling in Chickpea. 	Integrated seed proteome and phosphoproteome analyses reveal interplay of nutrient dynamics, carbon-nitrogen partitioning and oxidative signaling in chickpea, part 1	2DE, Chickpea, Nutrient, Seed	Nutrient dynamics in storage organs is a complex developmental process that requires coordinated interactions of environmental, biochemical, and genetic factors. Although sink organ developmental events have been identified, understanding of translational and post-translational regulation of reserve synthesis, accumulation, and utilization in legumes is limited. To understand nutrient dynamics during embryonic and cotyledonary photoheterotrophic transition to mature and germinating autotrophic seeds, an integrated proteomics and phosphoproteomics study in six sequential seed developmental stages in chickpea is performed. MS/MS analyses identify 109 unique nutrient-associated proteins (NAPs) involved in metabolism, storage and biogenesis, and protein turnover. Differences and similarities in 60 nutrient-associated phosphoproteins (NAPPs) containing 93 phosphosites are compared with NAPs. Data reveal accumulation of carbon-nitrogen metabolic and photosynthetic proteoforms during seed filling. Furthermore, enrichment of storage proteoforms and protease inhibitors is associated with cell expansion and seed maturation. Finally, combined proteoforms network analysis identifies three significant modules, centered around malate dehydrogenase, HSP70, triose phosphate isomerase, and vicilin. Novel clues suggest that ubiquitin-proteasome pathway regulates nutrient reallocation. Second, increased abundance of NAPs/NAPPs related to oxidative and serine/threonine signaling indicates direct interface between redox sensing and signaling during seed development. Taken together, nutrient signals act as metabolic and differentiation determinant governing storage organ reprogramming.
PXD017913	32147508	Basement membrane ligands initiate distinct signalling networks to direct cell shape. 	Integrin adhesion complexes formed on different basement membrane ligands	AB, Adhesions, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Podocyte, ProteomeXchange project tag: Kidney Urine (B/D-HPP), RPE19, extracellular matrix ligand., integrins	Cells have evolved mechanisms to sense the composition of their adhesive microenvironment. Although much is known about general mechanisms employed by adhesion receptors to relay signals between the extracellular environment and the cytoskeleton, the nuances of ligand-specific signalling remain undefined. Here, we investigated how glomerular podocytes, and four other basement membrane-associated cell types, respond morphologically to different basement membrane ligands. We defined the composition of the respective adhesion complexes using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. On type IV collagen, all epithelial cell types adopted a round morphology, with a single lamellipodium and large adhesion complexes rich in actin-binding proteins. On laminin (511 or 521), all cell types attached to a similar degree but were polygonal in shape with small adhesion complexes enriched in endocytic and microtubule-binding proteins. Consistent with their distinctive morphologies, cells on type IV collagen exhibited high Rac1 activity, while those on laminin had elevated PKCalpha. Perturbation of PKCalpha was able to interchange morphology consistent with a key role for this pathway in matrix ligand-specific signalling. Therefore, this study defines the switchable basement membrane adhesome and highlights two key signalling pathways within the systems that determine distinct cell morphologies. Proteomic data are availableviaProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017913.
PXD011758	32148127	Loss of Arhgef11 in the Dahl Salt-Sensitive Rat Protects Against Hypertension-Induced Renal Injury. 	Arhgef11 high and low salt kidney proteomic analysis	Arhgef11, high and low salt, kidney function	Arhgef11 is a Rho-guanine nucleotide exchange factor that was previously implicated in kidney injury in the Dahl salt-sensitive (SS) rat, a model of hypertension-related chronic kidney disease. Reduced Arhgef11 expression in an SS-Arhgef11(SHR)-minimal congenic strain (spontaneously hypertensive rat allele substituted for S allele) significantly decreased proteinuria, fibrosis, and improved renal hemodynamics, without impacting blood pressure compared with the control SS (SS-wild type). Here, SS-Arhgef11(-/-) and SS-wild type rats were placed on either low or elevated salt (0.3% or 2% NaCl) from 4 to 12 weeks of age. On low salt, starting at week 6 and through week 12, SS-Arhgef11(-/-) animals demonstrated a 3-fold decrease in proteinuria compared with SS-wild type. On high salt, beginning at week 6, SS-Arhgef11(-/-) animals demonstrated >2-fold lower proteinuria from weeks 8 to 12 and 30 mm Hg lower BP compared with SS-wild type. To better understand the molecular mechanisms of the renal protection from loss of Arhgef11, both RNA sequencing and discovery proteomics were performed on kidneys from week 4 (before onset of renal injury/proteinuria between groups) and at week 12 (low salt). The omics data sets revealed loss of Arhgef11 (SS-Arhgef11(-/-)) initiates early transcriptome/protein changes in the cytoskeleton starting as early as week 4 that impact a number of cellular functions, including actin cytoskeletal regulation, mitochondrial metabolism, and solute carrier transporters. In summary, in vivo phenotyping coupled with a multi-omics approach provides strong evidence that increased Arhgef11 expression in the Dahl SS rat leads to actin cytoskeleton-mediated changes in cell morphology and cell function that promote kidney injury, hypertension, and decline in kidney function.
PXD014098	32149416	CLUH granules coordinate translation of mitochondrial proteins with mTORC1 signaling and mitophagy. 	CLUH-dependent RNA granules coordinate mitochondrial catabolic pathways with mTORC1 signaling and mitophagy	Mitochondria, RNA-binding proteins, catabolism	Mitochondria house anabolic and catabolic processes that must be balanced and adjusted to meet cellular demands. The RNA-binding protein CLUH (clustered mitochondria homolog) binds mRNAs of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins and is highly expressed in the liver, where it regulates metabolic plasticity. Here, we show that in primary hepatocytes, CLUH coalesces in specific ribonucleoprotein particles that define the translational fate of target mRNAs, such as Pcx, Hadha, and Hmgcs2, to match nutrient availability. Moreover, CLUH granules play signaling roles, by recruiting mTOR kinase and the RNA-binding proteins G3BP1 and G3BP2. Upon starvation, CLUH regulates translation of Hmgcs2, involved in ketogenesis, inhibits mTORC1 activation and mitochondrial anabolic pathways, and promotes mitochondrial turnover, thus allowing efficient reprograming of metabolic function. In the absence of CLUH, a mitophagy block causes mitochondrial clustering that is rescued by rapamycin treatment or depletion of G3BP1 and G3BP2. Our data demonstrate that metabolic adaptation of liver mitochondria to nutrient availability depends on a compartmentalized CLUH-dependent post-transcriptional mechanism that controls both mTORC1 and G3BP signaling and ensures survival.
PXD016619	32149426	Phosphorylation switches protein disulfide isomerase activity to maintain proteostasis and attenuate ER stress. 	Fam20C interactome in the secretory pathway under ER stress	ER stress, Fam20C, PDI, Phosphorylation	Accumulated unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) trigger the unfolded protein response (UPR) to increase ER protein folding capacity. ER proteostasis and UPR signaling need to be regulated in a precise and timely manner. Here, we identify phosphorylation of protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), one of the most abundant and critical folding catalysts in the ER, as an early event during ER stress. The secretory pathway kinase Fam20C phosphorylates Ser357 of PDI and responds rapidly to various ER stressors. Phosphorylation of Ser357 induces an open conformation of PDI and turns it from a "foldase" into a "holdase", which is critical for preventing protein misfolding in the ER. Phosphorylated PDI also binds to the lumenal domain of IRE1alpha, a major UPR signal transducer, and attenuates excessive IRE1alpha activity. Importantly, PDI-S359A knock-in mice display enhanced IRE1alpha activation and liver damage under acute ER stress. We conclude that the Fam20C-PDI axis constitutes a post-translational response to maintain ER proteostasis and plays a vital role in protecting against ER stress-induced cell death.
PXD015079	32151270	Hemispheric asymmetry in the human brain and in Parkinson's disease is linked to divergent epigenetic patterns in neurons. 	Epigenetic inactivation of the autophagy-lysosomal system in the Parkinson's disease appendix	Parkinson's disease, appendix, autophagy, epigenetic, lysosome, neurons	BACKGROUND: Hemispheric asymmetry in neuronal processes is a fundamental feature of the human brain and drives symptom lateralization in Parkinson's disease (PD), but its molecular determinants are unknown. Here, we identify divergent epigenetic patterns involved in hemispheric asymmetry by profiling DNA methylation in isolated prefrontal cortex neurons from control and PD brain hemispheres. DNA methylation is fine-mapped at enhancers and promoters, genome-wide, by targeted bisulfite sequencing in two independent sample cohorts. RESULTS: We find that neurons of the human prefrontal cortex exhibit hemispheric differences in DNA methylation. Hemispheric asymmetry in neuronal DNA methylation patterns is largely mediated by differential CpH methylation, and chromatin conformation analysis finds that it targets thousands of genes. With aging, there is a loss of hemispheric asymmetry in neuronal epigenomes, such that hemispheres epigenetically converge in late life. In neurons of PD patients, hemispheric asymmetry in DNA methylation is greater than in controls and involves many PD risk genes. Epigenetic, transcriptomic, and proteomic differences between PD hemispheres correspond to the lateralization of PD symptoms, with abnormalities being most prevalent in the hemisphere matched to side of symptom predominance. Hemispheric asymmetry and symptom lateralization in PD is linked to genes affecting neurodevelopment, immune activation, and synaptic transmission. PD patients with a long disease course have greater hemispheric asymmetry in neuronal epigenomes than those with a short disease course. CONCLUSIONS: Hemispheric differences in DNA methylation patterns are prevalent in neurons and may affect the progression and symptoms of PD.
PXD017538	32152224	The heme-regulatory motifs of heme oxygenase-2 contribute to the transfer of heme to the catalytic site for degradation. 	The heme regulatory motifs of heme oxygenase-2 function to transfer heme to the catalytic site for degradation	HDXMS, conformational change, enzyme kinetics, enzyme mechanisms, hydrogen deuterium exchange, protein dynamics	Heme-regulatory motifs (HRMs) are present in many proteins that are involved in diverse biological functions. The C-terminal tail region of human heme oxygenase-2 (HO2) contains two HRMs whose cysteine residues form a disulfide bond; when reduced, these cysteines are available to bind Fe(3+)-heme. Heme binding to the HRMs occurs independently of the HO2 catalytic active site in the core of the protein, where heme binds with high affinity and is degraded to biliverdin. Here, we describe the reversible, protein-mediated transfer of heme between the HRMs and the HO2 core. Using hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HDX)-MS to monitor the dynamics of HO2 with and without Fe(3+)-heme bound to the HRMs and to the core, we detected conformational changes in the catalytic core only in one state of the catalytic cycle-when Fe(3+)-heme is bound to the HRMs and the core is in the apo state. These conformational changes were consistent with transfer of heme between binding sites. Indeed, we observed that HRM-bound Fe(3+)-heme is transferred to the apo-core either upon independent expression of the core and of a construct spanning the HRM-containing tail or after a single turnover of heme at the core. Moreover, we observed transfer of heme from the core to the HRMs and equilibration of heme between the core and HRMs. We therefore propose an Fe(3+)-heme transfer model in which HRM-bound heme is readily transferred to the catalytic site for degradation to facilitate turnover but can also equilibrate between the sites to maintain heme homeostasis.
PXD017539	32152231	AIG1 and ADTRP are endogenous hydrolases of fatty acid esters of hydroxy fatty acids (FAHFAs) in mice. 	AIG1 and ADTRP are endogenous FAHFA hydrolases	ADTRP, AIG1, FAHFA, diabetes, enzyme inhibitor, lipid, metabolism, threonine hydrolase	Fatty acid esters of hydroxy fatty acids (FAHFAs) are a newly discovered class of signaling lipids with anti-inflammatory and anti-diabetic properties. However, the endogenous regulation of FAHFAs remains a pressing but unanswered question. Here, using MS-based FAHFA hydrolysis assays, LC-MS-based lipidomics analyses, and activity-based protein profiling, we found that androgen-induced gene 1 (AIG1) and androgen-dependent TFPI-regulating protein (ADTRP), two threonine hydrolases, control FAHFA levels in vivo in both genetic and pharmacologic mouse models. Tissues from mice lacking ADTRP (Adtrp-KO), or both AIG1 and ADTRP (DKO) had higher concentrations of FAHFAs particularly isomers with the ester bond at the 9(th) carbon due to decreased FAHFA hydrolysis activity. The levels of other lipid classes were unaltered indicating that AIG1 and ADTRP specifically hydrolyze FAHFAs. Complementing these genetic studies, we also identified a dual AIG1/ADTRP inhibitor, ABD-110207, which is active in vivo Acute treatment of WT mice with ABD-110207 resulted in elevated FAHFA levels, further supporting the notion that AIG1 and ADTRP activity control endogenous FAHFA levels. However, loss of AIG1/ADTRP did not mimic the changes associated with pharmacologically administered FAHFAs on extent of upregulation of FAHFA levels, glucose tolerance, or insulin sensitivity in mice, indicating that therapeutic strategies should weigh more on FAHFA administration. Together, these findings identify AIG1 and ADTRP as the first endogenous FAHFA hydrolases identified and provide critical genetic and chemical tools for further characterization of these enzymes and endogenous FAHFAs to unravel their physiological functions and roles in health and disease.
PXD017239	32152270	TEX264 coordinates p97- and SPRTN-mediated resolution of topoisomerase 1-DNA adducts. 	TEX264 coordinates p97- and SPRTN-mediated resolution of topoisomerase 1-DNA adducts	DNA repair, DNA replication, SPRTN, TEX264, TOP1, VCP/p97, genome stability, protein-DNA adducts	Eukaryotic topoisomerase 1 (TOP1) regulates DNA topology to ensure efficient DNA replication and transcription. TOP1 is also a major driver of endogenous genome instability, particularly when its catalytic intermediate-a covalent TOP1-DNA adduct known as a TOP1 cleavage complex (TOP1cc)-is stabilised. TOP1ccs are highly cytotoxic and a failure to resolve them underlies the pathology of neurological disorders but is also exploited in cancer therapy where TOP1ccs are the target of widely used frontline anti-cancer drugs. A critical enzyme for TOP1cc resolution is the tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase (TDP1), which hydrolyses the bond that links a tyrosine in the active site of TOP1 to a 3' phosphate group on a single-stranded (ss)DNA break. However, TDP1 can only process small peptide fragments from ssDNA ends, raising the question of how the ~90 kDa TOP1 protein is processed upstream of TDP1. Here we find that TEX264 fulfils this role by forming a complex with the p97 ATPase and the SPRTN metalloprotease. We show that TEX264 recognises both unmodified and SUMO1-modifed TOP1 and initiates TOP1cc repair by recruiting p97 and SPRTN. TEX264 localises to the nuclear periphery, associates with DNA replication forks, and counteracts TOP1ccs during DNA replication. Altogether, our study elucidates the existence of a specialised repair complex required for upstream proteolysis of TOP1ccs and their subsequent resolution.
PXD012734	32152317	Antagonistic activities of CDC14B and CDK1 on USP9X regulate WT1-dependent mitotic transcription and survival. 	Identification of mitotic substrates of phospho-regulated USP9X	USP9X, ubiquitinylation	Regulation of mitosis secures cellular integrity and its failure critically contributes to the development, maintenance, and treatment resistance of cancer. In yeast, the dual phosphatase Cdc14 controls mitotic progression by antagonizing Cdk1-mediated protein phosphorylation. By contrast, specific mitotic functions of the mammalian Cdc14 orthologue CDC14B have remained largely elusive. Here, we find that CDC14B antagonizes CDK1-mediated activating mitotic phosphorylation of the deubiquitinase USP9X at serine residue 2563, which we show to be essential for USP9X to mediate mitotic survival. Starting from an unbiased proteome-wide screening approach, we specify Wilms' tumor protein 1 (WT1) as the relevant substrate that becomes deubiquitylated and stabilized by serine 2563-phosphorylated USP9X in mitosis. We further demonstrate that WT1 functions as a mitotic transcription factor and specify CXCL8/IL-8 as a target gene of WT1 that conveys mitotic survival. Together, we describe a ubiquitin-dependent signaling pathway that directs a mitosis-specific transcription program to regulate mitotic survival.
PXD016497	32152320	Histone variant H3.3 residue S31 is essential for Xenopus gastrulation regardless of the deposition pathway. 	H3 N-terminal tail peptide interactome	H3.3S31, Histone variant, Xenopus laevis, development	Vertebrates exhibit specific requirements for replicative H3 and non-replicative H3.3 variants during development. To disentangle whether this involves distinct modes of deposition or unique functions once incorporated into chromatin, we combined studies in Xenopus early development with chromatin assays. Here we investigate the extent to which H3.3 mutated at residues that differ from H3.2 rescue developmental defects caused by H3.3 depletion. Regardless of the deposition pathway, only variants at residue 31-a serine that can become phosphorylated-failed to rescue endogenous H3.3 depletion. Although an alanine substitution fails to rescue H3.3 depletion, a phospho-mimic aspartate residue at position 31 rescues H3.3 function. To explore mechanisms involving H3.3 S31 phosphorylation, we identified factors attracted or repulsed by the presence of aspartate at position 31, along with modifications on neighboring residues. We propose that serine 31-phosphorylated H3.3 acts as a signaling module that stimulates the acetylation of K27, providing a chromatin state permissive to the embryonic development program.
PXD015408	32152506	The MHC-II peptidome of pancreatic islets identifies key features of autoimmune peptides. 	The pancreatic islet MHC-II peptidome identifies key features of autoimmune peptides	MHC-II peptidome, NOD mouse, hybrid insulin peptides, islets, pLN, spleen	The nature of autoantigens that trigger autoimmune diseases has been much discussed, but direct biochemical identification is lacking for most. Addressing this question demands unbiased examination of the self-peptides displayed by a defined autoimmune major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) molecule. Here, we examined the immunopeptidome of the pancreatic islets in non-obese diabetic mice, which spontaneously develop autoimmune diabetes based on the I-A(g7) variant of MHC-II. The relevant peptides that induced pathogenic CD4(+) T cells at the initiation of diabetes derived from proinsulin. These peptides were also found in the MHC-II peptidome of the pancreatic lymph nodes and spleen. The proinsulin-derived peptides followed a trajectory from their generation and exocytosis in beta cells to uptake and presentation in islets and peripheral sites. Such a pathway generated conventional epitopes but also resulted in the presentation of post-translationally modified peptides, including deamidated sequences. These analyses reveal the key features of a restricted component in the self-MHC-II peptidome that caused autoreactivity.
PXD013786	32152539	Paradoxical mitotic exit induced by a small molecule inhibitor of APC/C(Cdc20). 	Paradoxical mitotic exit induced by a small molecule inhibitor of APC/C Cdc20	Apcin, CDC20, mitosis	The anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is a ubiquitin ligase that initiates anaphase and mitotic exit. APC/C is activated by Cdc20 and inhibited by the mitotic checkpoint complex (MCC), which delays mitotic exit when the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) is activated. We previously identified apcin as a small molecule ligand of Cdc20 that inhibits APC/C(Cdc20) and prolongs mitosis. Here we find that apcin paradoxically shortens mitosis when SAC activity is high. These opposing effects of apcin arise from targeting of a common binding site in Cdc20 required for both substrate ubiquitination and MCC-dependent APC/C inhibition. Furthermore, we found that apcin cooperates with p31(comet) to relieve MCC-dependent inhibition of APC/C. Apcin therefore causes either net APC/C inhibition, prolonging mitosis when SAC activity is low, or net APC/C activation, shortening mitosis when SAC activity is high, demonstrating that a small molecule can produce opposing biological effects depending on regulatory context.
PXD017478	32153367	Filling the Gaps - A Call for Comprehensive Analysis of Extracellular Matrix of the Glial Scar in Region- and Injury-Specific Contexts. 	Filling the gaps - a call for comprehensive analysis of extracellular matrix of the glial scar in region- and injury-specific contexts	Brain injury, central nervous system, extracellular matrix, gliosis, macrophages, scarring	Central nervous system (CNS) injury results in chronic scar formation that interferes with function and inhibits repair. Extracellular matrix (ECM) is prominent in the scar and potently regulates cell behavior. However, comprehensive information about the ECM proteome is largely lacking, and region- as well as injury-specific differences are often not taken into account. These aspects are the focus of our perspective on injury and scar formation. To highlight the importance of such comprehensive proteome analysis we include data obtained with novel analysis tools of the ECM composition in the scar and show the contribution of monocytes to the ECM composition after traumatic brain injury (TBI). Monocyte invasion was reduced using the CCR2-/- mouse line and step-wise de-cellularization and proteomics allowed determining monocyte-dependent ECM composition and architecture of the glial scar. We find significant reduction in the ECM proteins Tgm1, Itih (1,2, and 3), and Ftl in the absence of monocyte invasion. We also describe the scar ECM comprising zones with distinctive composition and show a subacute signature upon comparison to proteome obtained at earlier times after TBI. These results are discussed in light of injury-, region- and time-specific regulation of scar formation highlighting the urgent need to differentiate injury conditions and CNS-regions using comprehensive ECM analysis.
PXD016578	32154243	Extracellular Vesicles From Notch Activated Cardiac Mesenchymal Stem Cells Promote Myocyte Proliferation and Neovasculogenesis. 	Extracellular vesicles from Notch activated cardiac mesenchymal stem cell promote myocyte proliferation and neo-vasculogenesis	cardiac mesenchymal stem cell, notch1	Cardiac mesenchymal stem cells (C-MSCs) are a novel mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) subpopulation derived from cardiac tissue, which are reported to be responsible for cardiac regeneration. Notch signaling is believed to aid in cardiac repair following myocardial injury. In this study, we have investigated the role of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from Notch1 engineered C-MSCs on angiogenesis and cardiomyocyte (CM) proliferation in ischemic myocardium. C-MSCs were isolated from Notch1(flox) mice (C-MSC(Notch1 FF)). Notch1 gene deletion was accomplished by adenoviral vector-mediated Cre recombination, and Notch1 overexpression was achieved by overexpression of Notch1 intracellular domain (N1ICD). EVs were isolated by using the size exclusion column method. Proteomic composition of EV was carried out by mass spectrometry. A mouse myocardial infarction (MI) model was generated by permanent left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery ligation. Intramyocardial transplantation of Notch1 knockout C-MSCs (C-MSCs(Notch1 KO)) did not have any effect on cardiac function and scar size. On the other hand, transplantation of N1ICD-overexpressing C-MSCs (C-MSCs(N1ICD)) showed significant improvement in cardiac function and attenuation of fibrosis as compared to the control (PBS) group and non-modified C-MSC groups. C-MSCs(N1ICD) differentiated into smooth muscle cells and formed new vessels. Proteomics profiling identified several proteins, such as lysyl oxidase homolog-2 and biglycan, as highly enriched proteins in EV-C-MSCs(N1ICD). Go term analysis indicated that EV-C-MSCs(N1ICD) were enriched with bioactive factors, potent pro-repair proteins responsible for cell migration and proliferation. EV-C-MSCs Notch1FF and EV-C-MSCs(N1ICD) were strongly proangiogenic under both in vitro and in vivo conditions. EV-C-MSCs(N1ICD) caused dense tube formation in vitro and increased neovasculogenesis in the peri-infarct area in vivo. Furthermore, EV-C-MSCs(N1ICD) attenuated endothelial cell (EC) and CM apoptosis under oxidative stress and ischemic injury. Similarly, EV-C-MSC(Notch1 FF) and EV-C-MSC(N1ICD) treatment improved cardiac function and decreased fibrosis in mice post-MI. EV-C-MSCs(N1ICD) were very effective in improving cardiac function and decreasing fibrosis. Notch1 signaling is a strong stimulus for cardiac regeneration by C-MSCs. EVs secreted by Notch1-overexpressing C-MSCs were highly effective in preventing cell death, promoting angiogenesis and CM proliferation, and restoring cardiac function post-MI. Overall, these results suggest that Notch1 overexpression may further enhance the effectiveness of EVs secreted by C-MSCs in cell-free therapy.
PXD016297	32154357	Proteome data of serum samples from patients with schizophrenia. 	HPLC-MS/MS analysis of proteins in serum samples	plasma, schizophrenia	Schizophrenia is a complex chronic disease. The molecular determinants and neuropathology of schizophrenia are multifaceted; an important role in the pathogenesis is played by the dysregulation of molecular and epigenetic mechanisms. However, the molecular mechanisms of the development of the disease have not yet been studied. An important task is the accumulation and systematization of "OMICS"-knowledge of the molecular profiles (transcriptome, proteome, metabolome) of blood specific to pathology. Thereby the development and improvement of mass spectrometric methods for the detection of biological molecules has become increasingly important in biomedical research. In the field of applied problems in biomedical research, the most prevalent issue involves the identification of serological protein markers associated with the development of schizophrenia, which account for the diseases that cause the a life-shortening illness, disability, decreased of functioning and quality of life and wellbeing or health status. OMICS approaches are designed to detect genes (genomics), mRNA (transcriptomics), proteins (proteomics) and metabolites (metabolomics) in a specific biological sample. We report the proteomic datasets on the serum samples from patients with schizophrenia (series "SCZ") and healthy volunteers (series "CNT"). Data were acquired using shotgun ultra-high resolution mass spectrometry.
PXD017269	32154592	A streamlined mass spectrometry-based proteomics workflow for large-scale FFPE tissue analysis. 	A streamlined mass spectrometry-based proteomics workflow for large scale FFPE tissue analysis	Biobank, Cancer, FFPE, Protocol, Tissue	Formalin fixation and paraffin-embedding (FFPE) is the most common method to preserve human tissue for clinical diagnosis, and FFPE archives represent an invaluable resource for biomedical research. Proteins in FFPE material are stable over decades but their efficient extraction and streamlined analysis by mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics has so far proven challenging. Herein we describe a MS-based proteomic workflow for quantitative profiling of large FFPE tissue cohorts directly from histopathology glass slides. We demonstrate broad applicability of the workflow to clinical pathology specimens and variable sample amounts, including low-input cancer tissue isolated by laser microdissection. Using state-of-the-art data dependent acquisition (DDA) and data independent acquisition (DIA) MS workflows, we consistently quantify a large part of the proteome in 100 min single-run analyses. In an adenoma cohort comprising more than 100 samples, total workup took less than a day. We observed a moderate trend towards lower protein identification in long-term stored samples (>15 years), but clustering into distinct proteomic subtypes was independent of archival time. Our results underscore the great promise of FFPE tissues for patient phenotyping using unbiased proteomics and they prove the feasibility of analyzing large tissue cohorts in a robust, timely, and streamlined manner. (c) 2020 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD005093	32154729	Phosphoproteome Analysis Reveals Dynamic Heat Shock Protein 27 Phosphorylation in Tanshinone IIA-Induced Cell Death. 	Phosphoproteome of Tanshinone IIA treatment in Human gastric cell line AGS	Dimethyl labeling, Human gastric cell line AGS, Hydroxy acid-modified metal oxide chromatography, Strong cation-exchange chromatography fractionation, Tanshinone IIA, phosphoproteome	Gastric cancer is one of the most common types of cancer worldwide. Nevertheless, effective therapeutic strategies have not yet been discovered. Several studies have shown that tanshinone IIA (TIIA), which is extracted from the traditional herbal medicine plant Danshen (Salvia miltiorrhiza), has potential activity against many kinds of cancer. Our previous research demonstrated that TIIA can induce cell death in gastric cancer. However, the exact signaling pathway response is still unclear. Post-translational modification (PTM) plays a significant role in a wide range of physiological processes in cancer, via regulation of both signal transduction cascades and many cellular pathways. Here, we integrated multilayer omics-transcriptomics and dynamic phosphoproteomics-to elucidate the regulatory networks triggered by TIIA in gastric cancer. We identified the phosphorylation of heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) at serine 82 in response to TIIA, which caused reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and unfolded protein response (UPR). Moreover, the accumulation of cellular stress increased the expression of heat shock factor 1 (HSF1). In addition, the downstream targets of HSF1, which were involved in heat shock stress and apoptosis, were also activated in TIIA-treated cells. In conclusion, this study performs a multiomic approach to clarify a comprehensive TIIA-responsive network leading to cell death in gastric cancer.
PXD016824	32155067	Proteomic Profiling of Stem Cell Tissues during Regeneration of Deer Antler: A Model of Mammalian Organ Regeneration. 	Deer antler regenerative stem cell tissues LC-MS/MS	Animal regeneration models, antler stem cell, deer antler, label-free quantification, neural crest	As the only known mammalian organ that can fully and annually regenerate, deer antler has significant advantages over lower-order animal models when investigating the control of stem-cell-based organ regeneration. Antler regeneration is known to be initiated and maintained by neural-crest-derived stem cells in different states of activation. Antler stem cells can therefore be used as a model to study proteins and pathways involved in the maintenance of a stem cell niche and their activation and differentiation during organ formation. In this study, the MSC markers CD73, CD90, and CD105 were examined within the antler tip. Label-free quantification was performed to investigate the protein profiles of antler stem cells under different stages of activation and included dormant pedicle periosteum (DPP), antler growth center (GC), post-active stem cells from mid-beam antler periosteum (MAP), and deer facial periosteum (FP) as a control (n = 3 per group). PEAKS and IPA software were used to analyze the proteomic data. Our research confirmed the central role of stem cell activation in the development of this mammalian organ by localizing the MSC markers within the antler growth center. Label-free quantification revealed that the greatest number of unique proteins (87) was found in the growth center. There were only 12 proteins found with expression levels that significantly differed between DPP and FP. Protein profiles of these two groups indicated that antler stem cells may use similar mechanisms to maintain dormancy within a stem cell niche. The number of significantly regulated proteins among DPP, MAP, and GC was 153. Among them, the majority were upregulated in the growth center. Activation of antler stem cells was associated with many biological processes and signaling pathways, such as Hippo and canonical Wnt signaling. This work identifies the key pathways, molecular/cellular functions, and upstream regulators involved in mammal organ regeneration. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the iProX partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD016824.
PXD016450	32155069	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the Development of HBV-Associated Glomerulonephritis Triggered by the Downregulation of SLC7A7. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the Development of HBV-associated Glomerulonephritis Triggered by the Down-regulation of SLC7A7	HBV-associated glomerulonephritis, TMT, transgenic mice	As a hepadnavirus, hepatitis B virus (HBV) can cause damage to extrahepatic organs. The kidney is one of the organs that is more susceptible to damage. Research studies on HBV-associated glomerulonephritis (HBV-GN) have been going on for decades. However, the underlying molecular mechanism remains obscure. Here, we applied a tandem mass tag (TMT) isobaric labeling-based method to quantitatively profile the kidney proteome of HBV transgenic mice to illustrate the pathological mechanisms of HBV-GN. Weighted correlation network analysis, a clustering method for gene expression, is used to cluster proteins. Totally, we identified 127 proteins that were highly associated with HBV expression out of a total of 5169 quantified proteins. Among them, the downregulated solute carrier (SLC) family proteins are involved in the process of HBV-GN. We also found that IL1B was upregulated in the kidney tissue of HBV transgenic mice. These findings suggest that HBV disrupts the small molecule transport network of the kidney, which contributes to the occurrence of HBV-GN. The transporter, particularly SLC family 7 member 7 (SLC7A7), is involved in this process, which might serve as an intervention target for HBV-GN. All MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the iProX partner repository with the data set identifier PXD016450.
PXD016809	32156701	Reduction of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) complexity reveals cellular functions and dephosphorylation motifs of the PP2A/B'delta holoenzyme. 	Phosphoproteomics analysis to identify PPP2R5D substrates	PPP2R5D, phosphoproteomics	Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a large enzyme family responsible for most cellular Ser/Thr dephosphorylation events. PP2A substrate specificity, localization, and regulation by second messengers rely on more than a dozen regulatory subunits (including B/R2, B'/R5, and B"/R3), which form the PP2A heterotrimeric holoenzyme by associating with a dimer comprising scaffolding (A) and catalytic (C) subunits. Because of partial redundancy and high endogenous expression of PP2A holoenzymes, traditional approaches of overexpressing, knocking down, or knocking out PP2A regulatory subunits have yielded only limited insights into their biological roles and substrates. To this end, here we sought to reduce the complexity of cellular PP2A holoenzymes. We used tetracycline-inducible expression of pairs of scaffolding and regulatory subunits with complementary charge-reversal substitutions in their interaction interfaces. For each of the three regulatory subunit families, we engineered A/B charge-swap variants that could bind to one another, but not to endogenous A and B subunits. Because endogenous Aalpha was targeted by a co-induced shRNA, endogenous B subunits were rapidly degraded, resulting in expression of predominantly a single PP2A heterotrimer composed of the A/B charge-swap pair and the endogenous catalytic subunit. Using B'delta/PPP2R5D, we show that PP2A complexity reduction, but not PP2A overexpression, reveals a role of this holoenzyme in suppression of extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling and protein kinase A substrate dephosphorylation. When combined with global phosphoproteomics, the PP2A/B'delta reduction approach identified consensus dephosphorylation motifs in its substrates and suggested that residues surrounding the phosphorylation site play roles in PP2A substrate specificity.
PXD014261	32156775	TAp63-Regulated miRNAs Suppress Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma through Inhibition of a Network of Cell-Cycle Genes. 	TAp63-regulated microRNAs suppress cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma	Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Expression Proteomics, microRNA, p63	TAp63 is a p53 family member and potent tumor and metastasis suppressor. Here, we show that TAp63(-/-) mice exhibit an increased susceptibility to ultraviolet radiation-induced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cuSCC). A human-to-mouse comparison of cuSCC tumors identified miR-30c-2* and miR-497 as underexpressed in TAp63-deficient cuSCC. Reintroduction of these miRNAs significantly inhibited the growth of cuSCC cell lines and tumors. Proteomic profiling of cells expressing either miRNA showed downregulation of cell-cycle progression and mitosis-associated proteins. A mouse to human and cross-platform comparison of RNA-sequencing and proteomics data identified a 7-gene signature, including AURKA, KIF18B, PKMYT1, and ORC1, which were overexpressed in cuSCC. Knockdown of these factors in cuSCC cell lines suppressed tumor cell proliferation and induced apoptosis. In addition, selective inhibition of AURKA suppressed cuSCC cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, and showed antitumor effects in vivo. Finally, treatment with miR-30c-2* or miR-497 miRNA mimics was highly effective in suppressing cuSCC growth in vivo. Our data establish TAp63 as an essential regulator of novel miRNAs that can be therapeutically targeted for potent suppression of cuSCC. SIGNIFICANCE: This study provides preclinical evidence for the use of miR-30c-2*/miR-497 delivery and AURKA inhibition in the treatment of cuSCC, which currently has no FDA-approved targeted therapies.See related commentary by Parrales and Iwakuma, p. 2439.
PXD014777	32156793	MaxQuant Software for Ion Mobility Enhanced Shotgun Proteomics. 	MaxQuant software for ion mobility enhanced shotgun proteomics	EColi, HeLa, MaxQuant, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, TIMS, benchmarking, machine learning	Ion mobility can add a dimension to LC-MS based shotgun proteomics which has the potential to boost proteome coverage, quantification accuracy and dynamic range. Required for this is suitable software that extracts the information contained in the four-dimensional (4D) data space spanned by m/z, retention time, ion mobility and signal intensity. Here we describe the ion mobility enhanced MaxQuant software, which utilizes the added data dimension. It offers an end to end computational workflow for the identification and quantification of peptides and proteins in LC-IMS-MS/MS shotgun proteomics data. We apply it to trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS) coupled to a quadrupole time-of-flight (QTOF) analyzer. A highly parallelizable 4D feature detection algorithm extracts peaks which are assembled to isotope patterns. Masses are recalibrated with a non-linear m/z, retention time, ion mobility and signal intensity dependent model, based on peptides from the sample. A new matching between runs (MBR) algorithm that utilizes collisional cross section (CCS) values of MS1 features in the matching process significantly gains specificity from the extra dimension. Prerequisite for using CCS values in MBR is a relative alignment of the ion mobility values between the runs. The missing value problem in protein quantification over many samples is greatly reduced by CCS aware MBR.MS1 level label-free quantification is also implemented which proves to be highly precise and accurate on a benchmark dataset with known ground truth. MaxQuant for LC-IMS-MS/MS is part of the basic MaxQuant release and can be downloaded from http://maxquant.org.
PXD013649	32157095	Integrated proteogenomic deep sequencing and analytics accurately identify non-canonical peptides in tumor immunopeptidomes. 	non-canonical HLA peptides in cancer	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), antigen discovery, cancer immunotherapy, immunopeptidomics, non-canonical translation products	Efforts to precisely identify tumor human leukocyte antigen (HLA) bound peptides capable of mediating T cell-based tumor rejection still face important challenges. Recent studies suggest that non-canonical tumor-specific HLA peptides derived from annotated non-coding regions could elicit anti-tumor immune responses. However, sensitive and accurate mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteogenomics approaches are required to robustly identify these non-canonical peptides. We present an MS-based analytical approach that characterizes the non-canonical tumor HLA peptide repertoire, by incorporating whole exome sequencing, bulk and single-cell transcriptomics, ribosome profiling, and two MS/MS search tools in combination. This approach results in the accurate identification of hundreds of shared and tumor-specific non-canonical HLA peptides, including an immunogenic peptide derived from an open reading frame downstream of the melanoma stem cell marker gene ABCB5. These findings hold great promise for the discovery of previously unknown tumor antigens for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD014236	32157425	Rpn4 and proteasome-mediated yeast resistance to ethanol includes regulation of autophagy. 	Rpn4- and Proteasome- Mediated Yeast Response to Ethanol Stress: a View from a Proteome	Rpn4, S. cerevisiae, cell stress, ethanol, shotgun proteomics	Distilled spirits production using Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires understanding of the mechanisms of yeast cell response to alcohol stress. Reportedly, specific mutations in genes of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, e.g., RPN4, may result in strains exhibiting hyper-resistance to different alcohols. To study the Rpn4-dependent yeast response to short-term ethanol exposure, we performed a comparative analysis of the wild-type (WT) strain, strain with RPN4 gene deletion (rpn4-Delta), and a mutant strain with decreased proteasome activity and consequent Rpn4 accumulation due to PRE1 deregulation (YPL). The stress resistance tests demonstrated an increased sensitivity of mutant strains to ethanol compared with WT. Comparative proteomics analysis revealed significant differences in molecular responses to ethanol between these strains. GO analysis of proteins upregulated in WT showed enrichments represented by oxidative and heat responses, protein folding/unfolding, and protein degradation. Enrichment of at least one of these responses was not observed in the mutant strains. Moreover, activity of autophagy was not increased in the RPN4 deletion strain upon ethanol stress which agrees with changes in mRNA levels of ATG7 and PRB1 genes of the autophagy system. Activity of the autophagic system was clearly induced and accompanied with PRB1 overexpression in the YPL strain upon ethanol stress. We demonstrated that Rpn4 stabilization contributes to the PRB1 upregulation. CRISPR-Cas9-mediated repression of PACE-core Rpn4 binding sites in the PRB1 promoter inhibits PRB1 induction in the YPL strain upon ethanol treatment and results in YPL hypersensitivity to ethanol. Our data suggest that Rpn4 affects the autophagic system activity upon ethanol stress through the PRB1 regulation. These findings can be a basis for creating genetically modified yeast strains resistant to high levels of alcohol, being further used for fermentation in ethanol production.
PXD012907	32157726	Alterations of redox and iron metabolism accompany the development of HIV latency. 	Alterations of redox and iron metabolism accompany development of HIV latency	HIV-1 latency, Nrf2, SIVmac, iron, nuclear bodies, oxidative stress, promyelocyticleukemia protein, transferrin receptor-1	HIV-1 persists in a latent form during antiretroviral therapy, mainly in CD4(+) T cells, thus hampering efforts for a cure. HIV-1 infection is accompanied by metabolic alterations, such as oxidative stress, but the effect of cellular antioxidant responses on viral replication and latency is unknown. Here, we show that cells survive retroviral replication, both in vitro and in vivo in SIVmac-infected macaques, by upregulating antioxidant pathways and the intertwined iron import pathway. These changes are associated with remodeling of promyelocytic leukemia protein nuclear bodies (PML NBs), an important constituent of nuclear architecture and a marker of HIV-1 latency. We found that PML NBs are hyper-SUMOylated and that PML protein is degraded via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in productively infected cells, before latency establishment and after reactivation. Conversely, normal numbers of PML NBs were restored upon transition to latency or by decreasing oxidative stress or iron content. Our results highlight antioxidant and iron import pathways as determinants of HIV-1 latency and support their pharmacologic inhibition as tools to regulate PML stability and impair latency establishment.
PXD016093	32158520	Location of neonatal microglia drives small extracellular vesicles content and biological functions in vitro. 	Location of Neonatal Microglia Drives Small Extracellular Vesicles Content and Biological Functions	LC-MS, exosomes, microglia, vesicles	Combining proteomics and systems biology approaches, we demonstrate that neonatal microglial cells derived from two different CNS locations, cortex and spinal cord, and cultured in vitro displayed different phenotypes upon different physiological or pathological conditions. These cells also exhibited greater variability in terms of cellular and small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) protein content and levels. Bioinformatic data analysis showed that cortical microglia exerted anti-inflammatory and neurogenesis/tumorigenesis properties, while the spinal cord microglia were more inflammatory. Interestingly, while both sEVs microglia sources enhanced growth of DRGs processes, only the spinal cord-derived sEVs microglia under LPS stimulation significantly attenuated glioma proliferation. These results were confirmed using the neurite outgrowth assay on DRGs cells and glioma proliferation analysis in 3D spheroid cultures. Results from these in vitro assays suggest that the microglia localized at different CNS regions can ensure different biological functions. Together, this study indicates that neonatal microglia locations regulate their physiological and pathological functional fates and could affect the high prevalence of brain vs spinal cord gliomas in adults.
PXD014767	32159766	A Uniquely Complex Mitochondrial Proteome from Euglena gracilis. 	The mitochondrial and chloroplast proteome of Euglena gracilis	Euglena gracilis, chloroplast, mitochondrion	Euglena gracilis is a metabolically flexible, photosynthetic, and adaptable free-living protist of considerable environmental importance and biotechnological value. By label-free liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, a total of 1,786 proteins were identified from the E. gracilis purified mitochondria, representing one of the largest mitochondrial proteomes so far described. Despite this apparent complexity, protein machinery responsible for the extensive RNA editing, splicing, and processing in the sister clades diplonemids and kinetoplastids is absent. This strongly suggests that the complex mechanisms of mitochondrial gene expression in diplonemids and kinetoplastids occurred late in euglenozoan evolution, arising independently. By contrast, the alternative oxidase pathway and numerous ribosomal subunits presumed to be specific for parasitic trypanosomes are present in E. gracilis. We investigated the evolution of unexplored protein families, including import complexes, cristae formation proteins, and translation termination factors, as well as canonical and unique metabolic pathways. We additionally compare this mitoproteome with the transcriptome of Eutreptiella gymnastica, illuminating conserved features of Euglenida mitochondria as well as those exclusive to E. gracilis. This is the first mitochondrial proteome of a free-living protist from the Excavata and one of few available for protists as a whole. This study alters our views of the evolution of the mitochondrion and indicates early emergence of complexity within euglenozoan mitochondria, independent of parasitism.
PXD015518	32160399	Fibroblast-specific genome-scale modelling predicts an imbalance in amino acid metabolism in Refsum disease. 	A fibroblast-specific genome-scale model focused on fatty acid alpha-oxidation	Refsum, fatty acid alpha-oxidation, fibroblasts, model	Refsum disease (RD) is an inborn error of metabolism that is characterised by a defect in peroxisomal alpha-oxidation of the branched-chain fatty acid phytanic acid. The disorder presents with late-onset progressive retinitis pigmentosa and polyneuropathy and can be diagnosed biochemically by elevated levels of phytanate in plasma and tissues of patients. To date, no cure exists for RD, but phytanate levels in patients can be reduced by plasmapheresis and a strict diet. In this study, we reconstructed a fibroblast-specific genome-scale model based on the recently published, FAD-curated model, based on Recon3D reconstruction. We used transcriptomics (available via GEO database with identifier GSE138379), metabolomics and proteomics (available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015518) data, which we obtained from healthy controls and RD patient fibroblasts incubated with phytol, a precursor of phytanic acid. Our model correctly represents the metabolism of phytanate and displays fibroblast-specific metabolic functions. Using this model, we investigated the metabolic phenotype of RD at the genome scale, and we studied the effect of phytanate on cell metabolism. We identified 53 metabolites that were predicted to discriminate between healthy and RD patients, several of which with a link to amino acid metabolism. Ultimately, these insights in metabolic changes may provide leads for pathophysiology and therapy. DATABASES: Transcriptomics data are available via GEO database with identifier GSE138379, and proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015518.
PXD014285	32160408	Response of Pseudomonas putida to Complex, Aromatic-Rich Fractions from Biomass. 	The global response of Pseudomonas putida to a complex lignolysate	Lignin valorization, Pseudomonas putida	There is strong interest in the valorization of lignin to produce valuable products; however, its structural complexity has been a conversion bottleneck. Chemical pretreatment liberates lignin-derived soluble fractions that may be upgraded by bioconversion. Cholinium ionic liquid pretreatment of sorghum produced soluble, aromatic-rich fractions that were converted by Pseudomonas putida (P. putida), a promising host for aromatic bioconversion. Growth studies and mutational analysis demonstrated that P. putida growth on these fractions was dependent on aromatic monomers but unknown factors also contributed. Proteomic and metabolomic analyses indicated that these unknown factors were amino acids and residual ionic liquid; the oligomeric aromatic fraction derived from lignin was not converted. A cholinium catabolic pathway was identified, and the deletion of the pathway stopped the ability of P. putida to grow on cholinium ionic liquid. This work demonstrates that aromatic-rich fractions obtained through pretreatment contain multiple substrates; conversion strategies should account for this complexity.
PXD017425	32160546	Transferrin Receptor Is a Specific Ferroptosis Marker. 	Transferrin receptor is a specific ferroptosis marker	Antigen, Ferroptosis, IP-MSMS	Ferroptosis is a type of regulated cell death driven by the iron-dependent accumulation of oxidized polyunsaturated fatty acid-containing phospholipids. There is no reliable way to selectively stain ferroptotic cells in tissue sections to characterize the extent of ferroptosis in animal models or patient samples. We address this gap by immunizing mice with membranes from lymphoma cells treated with the ferroptosis inducer piperazine erastin and screening ~4,750 of the resulting monoclonal antibodies generated for their ability to selectively detect cells undergoing ferroptosis. We find that one antibody, 3F3 ferroptotic membrane antibody (3F3-FMA), is effective as a selective ferroptosis-staining reagent. The antigen of 3F3-FMA is identified as the human transferrin receptor 1 protein (TfR1). We validate this finding with several additional anti-TfR1 antibodies and compare them to other potential ferroptosis-detecting reagents. We find that anti-TfR1 and anti-malondialdehyde adduct antibodies are effective at staining ferroptotic tumor cells in multiple cell culture and tissue contexts.
PXD015553	32160557	Multi-omics Analysis of the Intermittent Fasting Response in Mice Identifies an Unexpected Role for HNF4alpha. 	Systems Proteomics of the Intermittent Fasting Response Identifies a Key Role for HNF4a	HNF4A, PPARA, SREBP1c, intermittent fasting, liver, metabolomics, plasma	Every-other-day fasting (EODF) is an effective intervention for the treatment of metabolic disease, including improvements in liver health. But how the liver proteome is reprogrammed by EODF is currently unknown. Here, we use EODF in mice and multi-omics analysis to identify regulated pathways. Many changes in the liver proteome are distinct after EODF and absent after a single fasting bout. Key among these is the simultaneous induction by EODF of de novo lipogenesis and fatty acid oxidation enzymes. Together with activation of oxidative stress defenses, this contributes to the improvements in glucose tolerance and lifespan after EODF. Enrichment analysis shows unexpected downregulation of HNF4alpha targets by EODF, and we confirm HNF4alpha inhibition. Suppressed HNF4alpha targets include bile synthetic enzymes and secreted proteins, such as alpha1-antitrypsin or inflammatory factors, which reflect EODF phenotypes. Interactive online access is provided to a data resource (https://www.larancelab.com/eodf), which provides a global view of fasting-induced mechanisms in mice.
PXD012874	32161126	CD29 identifies IFN-gamma-producing human CD8(+) T cells with an increased cytotoxic potential. 	Identification of different human CD8 T cell subsets by superior cytotoxicity in human T cells	CD8, IFNG, IL2, T cells	Cytotoxic CD8(+) T cells can effectively kill target cells by producing cytokines, chemokines, and granzymes. Expression of these effector molecules is however highly divergent, and tools that identify and preselect CD8(+) T cells with a cytotoxic expression profile are lacking. Human CD8(+) T cells can be divided into IFN-gamma- and IL-2-producing cells. Unbiased transcriptomics and proteomics analysis on cytokine-producing fixed CD8(+) T cells revealed that IL-2(+) cells produce helper cytokines, and that IFN-gamma(+) cells produce cytotoxic molecules. IFN-gamma(+) T cells expressed the surface marker CD29 already prior to stimulation. CD29 also marked T cells with cytotoxic gene expression from different tissues in single-cell RNA-sequencing data. Notably, CD29(+) T cells maintained the cytotoxic phenotype during cell culture, suggesting a stable phenotype. Preselecting CD29-expressing MART1 TCR-engineered T cells potentiated the killing of target cells. We therefore propose that CD29 expression can help evaluate and select for potent therapeutic T cell products.
PXD013064	32161166	Identification of an Unconventional Subpeptidome Bound to the Behcet's Disease-associated HLA-B*51:01 that is Regulated by Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1). 	IDENTIFICATION OF AN UNCONVENTIONAL SUBPEPTIDOME BOUND TO THE BEHET'S DISEASE - ASSOCIATED HLA-B*51:01 THAT IS REGULATED BY ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM AMINOPEPTIDASE 1 (ERAP1)	BEHET'S DISEASE, ERAP1, HLA-B*51:01, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) B*51:01 and endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) are strongly genetically associated with Behcet's disease (BD). Previous studies have defined two subgroups of HLA-B*51 peptidome containing proline (Pro) or alanine (Ala) at position 2 (P2). Little is known about the unconventional non-Pro/Ala2 HLA-B*51-bound peptides. We aimed to study the features of this novel subpeptidome, and investigate its regulation by ERAP1. CRISPR-Cas9 was used to generate an HLA-ABC-triple knockout HeLa cell line (HeLa.ABC-KO), which was subsequently transduced to express HLA-B*51:01 (HeLa.ABC-KO.B51). ERAP1 was silenced using lentiviral shRNA. Peptides bound to HLA-B*51:01 were eluted and analyzed by mass spectrometry. The characteristics of non-Pro/Ala2, Pro2, and Ala2 peptides and their alteration by ERAP1 silencing were investigated. Effects of ERAP1 silencing on cell surface expression of HLA-B*51:01 were studied using flow cytometry. More than 20% of peptides eluted from HLA-B*51:01 lacked Pro or Ala at P2. This unconventional group of HLA-B*51:01-bound peptides was relatively enriched for 8-mers (with relatively fewer 9-mers) compared with the Pro2 and Ala2 subpeptidomes and had similar N-terminal and C-terminal residue usages to Ala2 peptides (with the exception of the less abundant leucine at position Omega). Knockdown of ERAP1 increased the percentage of non-Pro/Ala2 from 20% to ~40%, increased the percentage of longer (10-mer and 11-mer) peptides eluted from HLA-B*51:01 complexes, and abrogated the predominance of leucine at P1. Interestingly knockdown of ERAP1 altered the length and N-terminal residue usage of non-Ala2&Pro2 and Ala2 but not the Pro2 peptides. Finally, ERAP1 silencing regulated the expression levels of cell surface HLA-B*51 in a cell-type-dependent manner. In conclusion, we have used a novel methodology to identify an unconventional but surprisingly abundant non-Pro/Ala2 HLA-B*51:01 subpeptidome. It is increased by knockdown of ERAP1, a gene affecting the risk of developing BD. This has implications for theories of disease pathogenesis.
PXD014318	32161257	UBB pseudogene 4 encodes functional ubiquitin variants. 	UBB Pseudogene 4 encodes novel ubiquitin variants	Lamin A, Nucleolus, Pseudogene, Ubiquitin	Pseudogenes are mutated copies of protein-coding genes that cannot be translated into proteins, but a small subset of pseudogenes has been detected at the protein level. Although ubiquitin pseudogenes represent one of the most abundant pseudogene families in many organisms, little is known about their expression and signaling potential. By re-analyzing public RNA-sequencing and proteomics datasets, we here provide evidence for the expression of several ubiquitin pseudogenes including UBB pseudogene 4 (UBBP4), which encodes Ub(KEKS) (Q2K, K33E, Q49K, N60S). The functional consequences of Ub(KEKS) conjugation appear to differ from canonical ubiquitylation. Quantitative proteomics shows that Ub(KEKS) modifies specific proteins including lamins. Knockout of UBBP4 results in slower cell division, and accumulation of lamin A within the nucleolus. Our work suggests that a subset of proteins reported as ubiquitin targets may instead be modified by ubiquitin variants that are the products of wrongly annotated pseudogenes and induce different functional effects.
PXD014709	32161259	Pharmacological induction of selective endoplasmic reticulum retention as a strategy for cancer therapy. 	Pharmacological induction of selective endoplasmic reticulum retention as a novel strategy for cancer therapy	LC-MS, plasma membrane	The integrated stress response (ISR) converges on eIF2alpha phosphorylation to regulate protein synthesis. ISR is activated by several stress conditions, including endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, executed by protein kinase R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK). We report that ER stress combined with ISR inhibition causes an impaired maturation of several tyrosine kinase receptors (RTKs), consistent with a partial block of their trafficking from the ER to the Golgi. Other proteins mature or are secreted normally, indicating selective retention in the ER (sERr). sERr is relieved upon protein synthesis attenuation and is accompanied by the generation of large mixed disulfide bonded complexes, including ERp44. sERr was pharmacologically recapitulated by combining the HIV-protease inhibitor nelfinavir with ISRIB, an experimental drug that inhibits ISR. Nelfinavir/ISRIB combination is highly effective to inhibit the growth of RTK-addicted cell lines and hepatocellular (HCC) cells in vitro and in vivo. Thus, pharmacological sERr can be utilized as a modality for cancer treatment.
PXD017575	32161260	Crystal structure of a lipin/Pah phosphatidic acid phosphatase. 	HDX-MS analysis of Lipin in the presence and absence of anionic membranes	HDX-MS, Lipin	Lipin/Pah phosphatidic acid phosphatases (PAPs) generate diacylglycerol to regulate triglyceride synthesis and cellular signaling. Inactivating mutations cause rhabdomyolysis, autoinflammatory disease, and aberrant fat storage. Disease-mutations cluster within the conserved N-Lip and C-Lip regions that are separated by 500-residues in humans. To understand how the N-Lip and C-Lip combine for PAP function, we determined crystal structures of Tetrahymena thermophila Pah2 (Tt Pah2) that directly fuses the N-Lip and C-Lip. Tt Pah2 adopts a two-domain architecture where the N-Lip combines with part of the C-Lip to form an immunoglobulin-like domain and the remaining C-Lip forms a HAD-like catalytic domain. An N-Lip C-Lip fusion of mouse lipin-2 is catalytically active, which suggests mammalian lipins function with the same domain architecture as Tt Pah2. HDX-MS identifies an N-terminal amphipathic helix essential for membrane association. Disease-mutations disrupt catalysis or destabilize the protein fold. This illustrates mechanisms for lipin/Pah PAP function, membrane association, and lipin-related pathologies.
PXD016718	32161263	Mitochondrial peptide BRAWNIN is essential for vertebrate respiratory complex III assembly. 	BRAWNIN: A sORF-encoded Peptide Essential for Vertebrate Mitochondrial Complex III	OXPHOS, mitochondria, sORF, uORF, zebrafish	The emergence of small open reading frame (sORF)-encoded peptides (SEPs) is rapidly expanding the known proteome at the lower end of the size distribution. Here, we show that the mitochondrial proteome, particularly the respiratory chain, is enriched for small proteins. Using a prediction and validation pipeline for SEPs, we report the discovery of 16 endogenous nuclear encoded, mitochondrial-localized SEPs (mito-SEPs). Through functional prediction, proteomics, metabolomics and metabolic flux modeling, we demonstrate that BRAWNIN, a 71 a.a. peptide encoded by C12orf73, is essential for respiratory chain complex III (CIII) assembly. In human cells, BRAWNIN is induced by the energy-sensing AMPK pathway, and its depletion impairs mitochondrial ATP production. In zebrafish, Brawnin deletion causes complete CIII loss, resulting in severe growth retardation, lactic acidosis and early death. Our findings demonstrate that BRAWNIN is essential for vertebrate oxidative phosphorylation. We propose that mito-SEPs are an untapped resource for essential regulators of oxidative metabolism.
PXD016930	32161604	Reducing the Immunogenic Potential of Wheat Flour: Silencing of Alpha Gliadin Genes in a U.S. Wheat Cultivar. 	Towards reducing the immunogenic potential of wheat flour: silencing of alpha gliadin genes in a U.S. wheat cultivar	Triticum aestivum, gliadin, immunogenic, wheat	The alpha gliadins are a group of more than 20 proteins with very similar sequences that comprise about 15%-20% of the total flour protein and contribute to the functional properties of wheat flour dough. Some alpha gliadins also contain immunodominant epitopes that trigger celiac disease, a chronic autoimmune disease that affects approximately 1% of the worldwide population. In an attempt to reduce the immunogenic potential of wheat flour from the U.S. spring wheat cultivar Butte 86, RNA interference was used to silence a subset of alpha gliadin genes encoding proteins containing celiac disease epitopes. Two of the resulting transgenic lines were analyzed in detail by quantitative two-dimensional gel electrophoresis combined with tandem mass spectrometry. Although the RNA interference construct was designed to target only some alpha gliadin genes, all alpha gliadins were effectively silenced in the transgenic plants. In addition, some off-target silencing of high molecular weight glutenin subunits was detected in both transgenic lines. Compensatory effects were not observed within other gluten protein classes. Reactivities of IgG and IgA antibodies from a cohort of patients with celiac disease toward proteins from the transgenic lines were reduced significantly relative to the nontransgenic line. Both mixing properties and SDS sedimentation volumes suggested a decrease in dough strength in the transgenic lines when compared to the control. The data suggest that it will be difficult to selectively silence specific genes within families as complex as the wheat alpha gliadins. Nonetheless, it may be possible to reduce the immunogenic potential of the flour and still retain many of the functional properties essential for the utilization of wheat.
PXD015605	32161752	Metabolic Rearrangements Causing Elevated Proline and Polyhydroxybutyrate Accumulation During the Osmotic Adaptation Response of Bacillus megaterium. 	Systems-wide understanding of the osmotic response and metabolic rearrangement in Bacillus megaterium	Bacillus megaterium, flux analysis, osmotic stress, polyhydroxybutyrate, proline, transcriptomics	For many years now, Bacillus megaterium serves as a microbial workhorse for the high-level production of recombinant proteins in the g/L-scale. However, efficient and stable production processes require the knowledge of the molecular adaptation strategies of the host organism to establish optimal environmental conditions. Here, we interrogated the osmotic stress response of B. megaterium using transcriptome, proteome, metabolome, and fluxome analyses. An initial transient adaptation consisted of potassium import and glutamate counterion synthesis. The massive synthesis of the compatible solute proline constituted the second longterm adaptation process. Several stress response enzymes involved in iron scavenging and reactive oxygen species (ROS) fighting proteins showed higher levels under prolonged osmotic stress induced by 1.8 M NaCl. At the same time, the downregulation of the expression of genes of the upper part of glycolysis resulted in the activation of the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP), generating an oversupply of NADPH. The increased production of lactate accompanied by the reduction of acetate secretion partially compensate for the unbalanced (NADH/NAD(+)) ratio. Besides, the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) mainly supplies the produced NADH, as indicated by the higher mRNA and protein levels of involved enzymes, and further confirmed by (13)C flux analyses. As a consequence of the metabolic flux toward acetyl-CoA and the generation of an excess of NADPH, B. megaterium redirected the produced acetyl-CoA toward the polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) biosynthetic pathway accumulating around 30% of the cell dry weight (CDW) as PHB. This direct relation between osmotic stress and intracellular PHB content has been evidenced for the first time, thus opening new avenues for synthesizing this valuable biopolymer using varying salt concentrations under non-limiting nutrient conditions.
PXD016026	32164165	Overexpression of the Selective Autophagy Cargo Receptor NBR1 Modifies Plant Response to Sulfur Deficit. 	Selective autophagy cargo receptor NBR1 is involved in plant response to sulfur deficit	NBR1	Plants exposed to sulfur deficit elevate the transcription of NBR1 what might reflect an increased demand for NBR1 in such conditions. Therefore, we investigated the role of this selective autophagy cargo receptor in plant response to sulfur deficit (-S). Transcriptome analysis of the wild type and NBR1 overexpressing plants pointed out differences in gene expression in response to -S. Our attention focused particularly on the genes upregulated by -S in roots of both lines because of significant overrepresentation of cytoplasmic ribosomal gene family. Moreover, we noticed overrepresentation of the same family in the set of proteins co-purifying with NBR1 in -S. One of these ribosomal proteins, RPS6 was chosen for verification of its direct interaction with NBR1 and proven to bind outside the NBR1 ubiquitin binding domains. The biological significance of this novel interaction and the postulated role of NBR1 in ribosomes remodeling in response to starvation remain to be further investigated. Interestingly, NBR1 overexpressing seedlings have significantly shorter roots than wild type when grown in nutrient deficient conditions in the presence of TOR kinase inhibitors. This phenotype probably results from excessive autophagy induction by the additive effect of NBR1 overexpression, starvation, and TOR inhibition.
PXD013908	32164169	Proteomic Analysis of the Early Development of the Phalaenopsis amabilis Flower Bud under Low Temperature Induction Using the iTRAQ/MRM Approach. 	Proteomic analysis of the early development of the Phalaenopsis amabilis flower bud under low temperature induction	Phalaenopsis amabilis, flower bud induction, low temperature	Phalaenopsis amabilis, one of the most important plants in the international flower market due to its graceful shape and colorful flowers, is an orchid that undergoes vernalization and requires low-temperature treatment for flowering. There have been few reports on the proteomics of the development of flower buds. In this study, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) were used to identify 5064 differentially expressed proteins in P. amabilis under low-temperature treatment; of these, 42 were associated with early floral induction, and 18 were verified by mass spectrometry multi-reaction monitoring (MRM). The data are available via ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD013908. Among the proteins associated with the vernalization pathway, PEQU_11434 (glycine-rich RNA-binding protein GRP1A-like) and PEQU_19304 (FT, VRN3 homolog) were verified by MRM, and some other important proteins related to vernalization and photoperiod pathway that were detected by iTRAQ but not successfully verified by MRM, such as PEQU_11045 (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine diphosphorylase), phytochromes A (PEQU_13449, PEQU_35378), B (PEQU_09249), and C (PEQU_41401). Our data revealed a regulation network of the early development of flower buds in P. amabilis under low temperature induction.
PXD016099	32165618	Impact of the gut microbiota on the m(6)A epitranscriptome of mouse cecum and liver. 	Impact of gut microbiota on the m6A epitranscriptome in mouse cecum and liver tissues	microbiota	The intestinal microbiota modulates host physiology and gene expression via mechanisms that are not fully understood. Here we examine whether host epitranscriptomic marks are affected by the gut microbiota. We use methylated RNA-immunoprecipitation and sequencing (MeRIP-seq) to identify N6-methyladenosine (m(6)A) modifications in mRNA of mice carrying conventional, modified, or no microbiota. We find that variations in the gut microbiota correlate with m(6)A modifications in the cecum, and to a lesser extent in the liver, affecting pathways related to metabolism, inflammation and antimicrobial responses. We analyze expression levels of several known writer and eraser enzymes, and find that the methyltransferase Mettl16 is downregulated in absence of a microbiota, and one of its target mRNAs, encoding S-adenosylmethionine synthase Mat2a, is less methylated. We furthermore show that Akkermansia muciniphila and Lactobacillus plantarum affect specific m(6)A modifications in mono-associated mice. Our results highlight epitranscriptomic modifications as an additional level of interaction between commensal bacteria and their host.
PXD017383	32165637	SSRP1-mediated histone H1 eviction promotes replication origin assembly and accelerated development. 	Identification of Xenopus laevis egg extract fraction stimulating somatic DNA replication through LC-MSMS	DNA replication, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Xenopus, somatic	In several metazoans, the number of active replication origins in embryonic nuclei is higher than in somatic ones, ensuring rapid genome duplication during synchronous embryonic cell divisions. High replication origin density can be restored by somatic nuclear reprogramming. However, mechanisms underlying high replication origin density formation coupled to rapid cell cycles are poorly understood. Here, using Xenopus laevis, we show that SSRP1 stimulates replication origin assembly on somatic chromatin by promoting eviction of histone H1 through its N-terminal domain. Histone H1 removal derepresses ORC and MCM chromatin binding, allowing efficient replication origin assembly. SSRP1 protein decays at mid-blastula transition (MBT) when asynchronous somatic cell cycles start. Increasing levels of SSRP1 delay MBT and, surprisingly, accelerate post-MBT cell cycle speed and embryo development. These findings identify a major epigenetic mechanism regulating DNA replication and directly linking replication origin assembly, cell cycle duration and embryo development in vertebrates.
PXD017011	32165640	Digenic inheritance of mutations in EPHA2 and SLC26A4 in Pendred syndrome. 	Digenic inheritance of mutations in EPHA2 and SLC26A4 in Pendred syndrome	EphA2, Pendred syndrome, ephrin-B2	Enlarged vestibular aqueduct (EVA) is one of the most commonly identified inner ear malformations in hearing loss patients including Pendred syndrome. While biallelic mutations of the SLC26A4 gene, encoding pendrin, causes non-syndromic hearing loss with EVA or Pendred syndrome, a considerable number of patients appear to carry mono-allelic mutation. This suggests faulty pendrin regulatory machinery results in hearing loss. Here we identify EPHA2 as another causative gene of Pendred syndrome with SLC26A4. EphA2 forms a protein complex with pendrin controlling pendrin localization, which is disrupted in some pathogenic forms of pendrin. Moreover, point mutations leading to amino acid substitution in the EPHA2 gene are identified from patients bearing mono-allelic mutation of SLC26A4. Ephrin-B2 binds to EphA2 triggering internalization with pendrin inducing EphA2 autophosphorylation weakly. The identified EphA2 mutants attenuate ephrin-B2- but not ephrin-A1-induced EphA2 internalization with pendrin. Our results uncover an unexpected role of the Eph/ephrin system in epithelial function.
PXD013832	32165698	Comprehensive cell surface proteomics defines markers of classical, intermediate and non-classical monocytes. 	Comprehensive cell surface proteomics defines markers of classical, intermediate and non-classical monocytes	Monocyte, blood cell, cell surface, classical monocyte, plasma membrane, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tag	Monocytes are a critical component of the cellular innate immune system, and can be subdivided into classical, intermediate and non-classical subsets on the basis of surface CD14 and CD16 expression. Classical monocytes play the canonical role of phagocytosis, and account for the majority of circulating cells. Intermediate and non-classical cells are known to exhibit varying levels of phagocytosis and cytokine secretion, and are differentially expanded in certain pathological states. Characterisation of cell surface proteins expressed by each subset is informative not only to improve understanding of phenotype, but may also provide biological insights into function. Here we use highly multiplexed Tandem-Mass-Tag (TMT)-based mass spectrometry with selective cell surface biotinylation to characterise the classical monocyte surface proteome, then interrogate the phenotypic differences between each monocyte subset to identify novel protein markers.
PXD019504	32166002	Prolyl 4-hydroxylase alpha 1 protein expression risk-stratifies early stage colorectal cancer. 	Global proteome analysis of paired colorectal cancer sample using LC-MS/MS	cancer, label-free	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most prevalent and lethal malignancies. Especially for early stage CRC, prognostic molecular markers are needed to guide therapy. In this study, we first extracted total proteomes from matched pairs of fresh cancer and benign mucosal tissues from 22 CRC patients. Global proteomic profiling with Fourier transform liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry sequencing and label free quantitation uncovered that P4HA1 (prolyl 4-hydroxylase alpha 1) was overexpressed in CRC relative to benign colonic mucosa. We then investigated expression by immunohistochemical staining with P4HA1-specific antibodies using CRC tissue microarrays. Independent validation cohorts of 599 cases of early stage CRC and 91 cases of late stage CRC were examined. Multivariate and univariate survival analyses revealed that high expression of P4HA1 protein was an independent poor prognostic marker for patients with early stage CRC, especially of the microsatellite stable subtype. Our study provides strong support for P4HA1 as a predictive protein marker for precision diagnostics, therapeutic decision-making, and drug development for early stage colorectal cancer and demonstrates the utility of proteomic profiling to identify novel protein biomarkers.
PXD015612	32167277	Exopeptidase Assisted N- and C-Terminal Proteome Sequencing. 	Exopeptidase assisted N- and C-terminal proteome sequencing	Protein sequencing, Terminomics	Due to mechanisms such as proteolytic processing or alternative translation starts, in vivo proteoforms do not necessarily correspond directly to those encoded in the genome. Therefore, the knowledge of protein termini is an indispensable prerequisite to understand protein functions. So far, sequencing of protein N- and C-termini has been limited to single purified protein species, while the proteome-wide identification of N- and C-termini relies on the generation of single, terminal proteotypic peptides followed by chemical enrichment or depletion strategies to facilitate their detection via mass spectrometry (MS). To overcome the numerous limitations in such approaches, we present an alternative concept that readily enables unbiased ladder sequencing of protein N- and C-termini. The approach combines exopeptidase digestions of the proteome with two-dimensional chromatographic separation and tandem-MS. We demonstrate the potential of the methodology by analyzing the N- and C-terminome of S. cerevisiae, identifying 2190 N-termini and 1562 C-termini. In conclusion, the presented method largely expands the proteomics toolbox enabling N- and C-terminal sequential characterization of entire proteomes.
PXD009952	32167278	MS1-Level Proteome Quantification Platform Allowing Maximally Increased Multiplexity for SILAC and In Vitro Chemical Labeling. 	Maximally-multiplexed proteome quantification platform for isotopic metabolic and chemical labeling	DE-6plex, Diethylation, HeLa cell, Heat shock, Heat shock response, Protein Quantification, Quantification, SILAC, SILAC-6plex	Quantitative proteomic platforms based on precursor intensity in mass spectrometry (MS1-level) uniquely support in vivo metabolic labeling with superior quantification accuracy but suffer from limited multiplexity (<=3-plex) and frequent missing quantities. Here we present a new MS1-level quantification platform that allows maximal multiplexing with high quantification accuracy and precision for the given labeling scheme. The platform currently comprises 6-plex in vivo SILAC or in vitro diethylation labeling with a dedicated algorithm and is also expandable to higher multiplexity (e.g., nine-plex for SILAC). For complex samples with broad dynamic ranges such as total cell lysates, our platform performs highly accurately and free of missing quantities. Furthermore, we successfully applied our method to measure protein synthesis rate under heat shock response in human cells by 6-plex pulsed SILAC experiments, demonstrating the unique biological merits of our in vivo platform to disclose translational regulations for cellular response to stress.
PXD016148	32167280	Fast and Robust Proteome Screening Platform Identifies Neutrophil Extracellular Trap Formation in the Lung in Response to Cobalt Ferrite Nanoparticles. 	Fast and robust proteome screening platform identifies neutrophil extracellular trap formation in the lung in response to cobalt ferrite nanoparticles	BALF, TMT, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, clinical proteomics, iron cobalt oxide nanoparticles, label-free, lung, metal oxide nanoparticles, murine, nanoparticles	Despite broad application of magnetic nanoparticles in biomedicine and electronics, only a few in vivo studies on biocompatibility are available. In this study, toxicity of magnetic metal oxide nanoparticles on the respiratory system was examined in vivo by single intratracheal instillation in mice. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples were collected for proteome analyses by LC-MS/MS, testing Fe3O4 nanoparticles doped with increasing amounts of cobalt (Fe3O4, CoFe2O4 with an iron to cobalt ratio 5:1, 3:1, 1:3, Co3O4) at two doses (54 mug, 162 mug per animal) and two time points (day 1 and 3 days postinstillation). In discovery phase, in-depth proteome profiling of a few representative samples allowed for comprehensive pathway analyses. Clustering of the 681 differentially expressed proteins (FDR < 0.05) revealed general as well as metal oxide specific responses with an overall strong induction of innate immunity and activation of the complement system. The highest expression increase could be found for a cluster of 39 proteins, which displayed strong dose-dependency to iron oxide and can be attributed to neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation. In-depth proteome analysis expanded the knowledge of in vivo NET formation. During screening, all BALF samples of the study (n = 166) were measured label-free as single-injections after a short gradient (21 min) LC separation using the Evosep One system, validating the findings from the discovery and defining protein signatures which enable discrimination of lung inflammation. We demonstrate a proteomics-based toxicity screening with high sample throughput easily transferrable to other nanoparticle types. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016148.
PXD011556	32169940	Multifunctional Acidocin 4356 Combats Pseudomonas aeruginosa through Membrane Perturbation and Virulence Attenuation: Experimental Results Confirm Molecular Dynamics Simulation. 	Bacteriocin LC-MSMS           .	Bacteriocin, Lactobacillus acidophilus atcc 4356	A longstanding awareness in generating resistance to common antimicrobial therapies by Gram-negative bacteria has made them a major threat to global health. The application of antimicrobial peptides as a therapeutic agent would be a great opportunity to combat bacterial diseases. Here, we introduce a new antimicrobial peptide (~8.3 kDa) from probiotic strain Lactobacillus acidophilus ATCC 4356, designated acidocin 4356 (ACD). This multifunctional peptide exerts its anti-infective ability against Pseudomonas aeruginosa through an inhibitory action on virulence factors, bacterial killing, and biofilm degradation. Reliable performance over tough physiological conditions and low hemolytic activity confirmed a new hope for the therapeutic setting. Antibacterial kinetic studies using flow cytometry technique showed that the ACD activity is related to the change in permeability of the membrane. The results obtained from molecular dynamic (MD) simulation were perfectly suited to the experimental data of ACD behavior. The structure-function relationship of this natural compound, along with the results of transmission electron microscopy analysis and MD simulation, confirmed the ability of the ACD aimed at enhancing bacterial membrane perturbation. The peptide was effective in the treatment of P. aeruginosa infection in mouse model. The results support the therapeutic potential of ACD for the treatment of Pseudomonas infections.IMPORTANCE Multidrug-resistant bacteria are a major threat to global health, and the Pseudomonas bacterium with the ability to form biofilms is considered one of the main causative agents of nosocomial infections. Traditional antibiotics have failed because of increased resistance. Thus, finding new biocompatible antibacterial drugs is essential. Antimicrobial peptides are produced by various organisms as a natural defense mechanism against pathogens, inspiring the possible design of the next generation of antibiotics. In this study, a new antimicrobial peptide was isolated from Lactobacillus acidophilus ATCC 4356, counteracting both biofilm and planktonic cells of Pseudomonas aeruginosa A detailed investigation was then conducted concerning the functional mechanism of this peptide by using fluorescence techniques, electron microscopy, and in silico methods. The antibacterial and antibiofilm properties of this peptide may be important in the treatment of Pseudomonas infections.
PXD016989	32170063	A signaling hub of insulin receptor, dystrophin glycoprotein complex and plakoglobin regulates muscle size. 	A signaling hub of insulin receptor dystrophin glycoprotein complex and plakoglobin regulates muscle size	dystrophin, insulin receptor, plakoglobin	Signaling through the insulin receptor governs central physiological functions related to cell growth and metabolism. Here we show by tandem native protein complex purification approach and super-resolution STED microscopy that insulin receptor activity requires association with the fundamental structural module in muscle, the dystrophin glycoprotein complex (DGC), and the desmosomal component plakoglobin (gamma-catenin). The integrity of this high-molecular-mass assembly renders skeletal muscle susceptibility to insulin, because DGC-insulin receptor dissociation by plakoglobin downregulation reduces insulin signaling and causes atrophy. Furthermore, low insulin receptor activity in muscles from transgenic or fasted mice decreases plakoglobin-DGC-insulin receptor content on the plasma membrane, but not when plakoglobin is overexpressed. By masking beta-dystroglycan LIR domains, plakoglobin prevents autophagic clearance of plakoglobin-DGC-insulin receptor co-assemblies and maintains their function. Our findings establish DGC as a signaling hub, and provide a possible mechanism for the insulin resistance in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, and for the cardiomyopathies seen with plakoglobin mutations.
PXD017371	32170072	Plant Raf-like kinases regulate the mRNA population upstream of ABA-unresponsive SnRK2 kinases under drought stress. 	Subclass I SnRK2-interacting protein, LC-MS/MS	SnRK2, interactome	SNF1-related protein kinases 2 (SnRK2s) are key regulators governing the plant adaptive responses to osmotic stresses, such as drought and high salinity. Subclass III SnRK2s function as central regulators of abscisic acid (ABA) signalling and orchestrate ABA-regulated adaptive responses to osmotic stresses. Seed plants have acquired other types of osmotic stress-activated but ABA-unresponsive subclass I SnRK2s that regulate mRNA decay and promote plant growth under osmotic stresses. In contrast to subclass III SnRK2s, the regulatory mechanisms underlying the rapid activation of subclass I SnRK2s in response to osmotic stress remain elusive. Here, we report that three B4 Raf-like MAP kinase kinase kinases (MAPKKKs) phosphorylate and activate subclass I SnRK2s under osmotic stress. Transcriptome analyses reveal that genes downstream of these MAPKKKs largely overlap with subclass I SnRK2-regulated genes under osmotic stress, which indicates that these MAPKKKs are upstream factors of subclass I SnRK2 and are directly activated by osmotic stress.
PXD014527	32170079	Extracellular nanovesicles for packaging of CRISPR-Cas9 protein and sgRNA to induce therapeutic exon skipping. 	Proteome analysis of NanoMEDIC particles	exosomes	Prolonged expression of the CRISPR-Cas9 nuclease and gRNA from viral vectors may cause off-target mutagenesis and immunogenicity. Thus, a transient delivery system is needed for therapeutic genome editing applications. Here, we develop an extracellular nanovesicle-based ribonucleoprotein delivery system named NanoMEDIC by utilizing two distinct homing mechanisms. Chemical induced dimerization recruits Cas9 protein into extracellular nanovesicles, and then a viral RNA packaging signal and two self-cleaving riboswitches tether and release sgRNA into nanovesicles. We demonstrate efficient genome editing in various hard-to-transfect cell types, including human induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, neurons, and myoblasts. NanoMEDIC also achieves over 90% exon skipping efficiencies in skeletal muscle cells derived from Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patient iPS cells. Finally, single intramuscular injection of NanoMEDIC induces permanent genomic exon skipping in a luciferase reporter mouse and in mdx mice, indicating its utility for in vivo genome editing therapy of DMD and beyond.
PXD012069	32170114	Phosphoproteomics identifies a bimodal EPHA2 receptor switch that promotes embryonic stem cell differentiation. 	The FGF4-dependent phosphoproteome in mouse embryonic stem cells	Kinase, growth factor, mouse embryonic stem cell, phosphorylation	Embryonic Stem Cell (ESC) differentiation requires complex cell signalling network dynamics, although the key molecular events remain poorly understood. Here, we use phosphoproteomics to identify an FGF4-mediated phosphorylation switch centred upon the key Ephrin receptor EPHA2 in differentiating ESCs. We show that EPHA2 maintains pluripotency and restrains commitment by antagonising ERK1/2 signalling. Upon ESC differentiation, FGF4 utilises a bimodal strategy to disable EPHA2, which is accompanied by transcriptional induction of EFN ligands. Mechanistically, FGF4-ERK1/2-RSK signalling inhibits EPHA2 via Ser/Thr phosphorylation, whilst FGF4-ERK1/2 disrupts a core pluripotency transcriptional circuit required for Epha2 gene expression. This system also operates in mouse and human embryos, where EPHA receptors are enriched in pluripotent cells whilst surrounding lineage-specified trophectoderm expresses EFNA ligands. Our data provide insight into function and regulation of EPH-EFN signalling in ESCs, and suggest that segregated EPH-EFN expression coordinates cell fate with compartmentalisation during early embryonic development.
PXD014481	32170121	Multi-level and lineage-specific interactomes of the Hox transcription factor Ubx contribute to its functional specificity. 	Lineage-specific Protein Interactomes of the Hox Transcription Factor Ubx revealed by Close-Proximity Protein Biotinylation	BioID, Drosophila, Hox, PPI, Ubx, Ultrabithorax, close-proximity biotinylation, close-proximity partners, development, interaction, interactome, transcription	Transcription factors (TFs) control cell fates by precisely orchestrating gene expression. However, how individual TFs promote transcriptional diversity remains unclear. Here, we use the Hox TF Ultrabithorax (Ubx) as a model to explore how a single TF specifies multiple cell types. Using proximity-dependent Biotin IDentification in Drosophila, we identify Ubx interactomes in three embryonic tissues. We find that Ubx interacts with largely non-overlapping sets of proteins with few having tissue-specific RNA expression. Instead most interactors are active in many cell types, controlling gene expression from chromatin regulation to the initiation of translation. Genetic interaction assays in vivo confirm that they act strictly lineage- and process-specific. Thus, functional specificity of Ubx seems to play out at several regulatory levels and to result from the controlled restriction of the interaction potential by the cellular environment. Thereby, it challenges long-standing assumptions such as differential RNA expression as determinant for protein complexes.
PXD017382	32170184	How paired PSII-LHCII supercomplexes mediate the stacking of plant thylakoid membranes unveiled by structural mass-spectrometry. 	How paired PSII-LHCII supercomplexes mediate the stacking of plant thylakoid membranes unveiled by integrative structural mass-spectrometry	CX-MS, DSSO, EDC, PSII, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Top-down RP-LC-MS/MS, acetylation, chlorophyll-binding proteins, crosslinking, photosystem, plant proteomics	Grana are a characteristic feature of higher plants' thylakoid membranes, consisting of stacks of appressed membranes enriched in Photosystem II (PSII) and associated light-harvesting complex II (LHCII) proteins, together forming the PSII-LHCII supercomplex. Grana stacks undergo light-dependent structural changes, mainly by reorganizing the supramolecular structure of PSII-LHCII supercomplexes. LHCII is vital for grana formation, in which also PSII-LHCII supercomplexes are involved. By combining top-down and crosslinking mass spectrometry we uncover the spatial organization of paired PSII-LHCII supercomplexes within thylakoid membranes. The resulting model highlights a basic molecular mechanism whereby plants maintain grana stacking at changing light conditions. This mechanism relies on interactions between stroma-exposed N-terminal loops of LHCII trimers and Lhcb4 subunits facing each other in adjacent membranes. The combination of light-dependent LHCII N-terminal trimming and extensive N-terminal alpha-acetylation likely affects interactions between pairs of PSII-LHCII supercomplexes across the stromal gap, ultimately mediating membrane folding in grana stacks.
PXD017518	32170208	Cholesteryl alpha-D-glucoside 6-acyltransferase enhances the adhesion of Helicobacter pylori to gastric epithelium. 	Cholesteryl alpha-D-glucoside 6-acyltransferase enhances the adhesion of Helicobacter pylori to gastric epithelium	Helicobacter pylori, acyltransferase, cholesteryl glucoside, integrin, lipid raft, outer membrane vesicle	Helicobacter pylori, the most common etiologic agent of gastric diseases including gastric cancer, is auxotrophic for cholesterol and has to hijack it from gastric epithelia. Upon uptake, the bacteria convert cholesterol to cholesteryl 6'-O-acyl-alpha-D-glucopyranoside (CAG) to promote lipid raft clustering in the host cell membranes. However, how CAG appears in the host to exert the pathogenesis still remains ambiguous. Herein we identified hp0499 to be the gene of cholesteryl alpha-D-glucopyranoside acyltransferase (CGAT). Together with cholesteryl glucosyltransferase (catalyzing the prior step), CGAT is secreted via outer membrane vesicles to the host cells for direct synthesis of CAG. This significantly enhances lipid rafts clustering, gathers adhesion molecules (including Lewis antigens and integrins alpha5, beta1), and promotes more bacterial adhesion. Furthermore, the clinically used drug amiodarone was shown as a potent inhibitor of CGAT to effectively reduce the bacterial adhesion, indicating that CGAT is a potential target of therapeutic intervention.
PXD016702	32170218	Bacterioplankton reveal years-long retention of Atlantic deep-ocean water by the Tropic Seamount. 	Seamount sheath water: years-long retention of deep-ocean water traced by bacterioplankton	Seamount bacterioplankton, ferromanganese encrusted guyot, flow cytometry, flow sorted cell proteomics, in situ incubator, isotope-tracer bioassay, next generation sequencing	Seamounts, often rising hundreds of metres above surrounding seafloor, obstruct the flow of deep-ocean water. While the retention of deep-water by seamounts is predicted from ocean circulation models, its empirical validation has been hampered by large scale and slow rate of the interaction. To overcome these limitations we use the growth of planktonic bacteria to assess the retention time of deep-ocean water by a seamount. The selected Tropic Seamount in the North-Eastern Atlantic is representative for the majority of isolated seamounts, which do not affect the surface ocean waters. We prove deep-water is retained by the seamount by measuring 2.4x higher bacterial concentrations in the seamount-associated or 'sheath'-water than in deep-ocean water unaffected by seamounts. Genomic analyses of flow-sorted, dominant sheath-water bacteria confirm their planktonic origin, whilst proteomic analyses of the sheath-water bacteria, isotopically labelled in situ, indicate their slow growth. According to our radiotracer experiments, it takes the sheath-water bacterioplankton 1.5 years to double their concentration. Therefore, the seamount should retain the deep-ocean water for 1.8 years for the deep-ocean bacterioplankton to grow to the 2.4x higher concentration in the sheath-water. We propose that turbulent mixing of the seamount sheath-water stimulates bacterioplankton growth by increasing cell encounter rate with ambient dissolved organic molecules.
PXD013592	32170290	Integrated multi-omics framework of the plant response to jasmonic acid. 	The jasmonate regulome: Reconstructing a hormone signalling pathway from transcription factor activity to phenotypic outputs	Jasmonic acid, MYC2, regulome	Understanding the systems-level actions of transcriptional responses to hormones provides insight into how the genome is reprogrammed in response to environmental stimuli. Here, we investigated the signalling pathway of the hormone jasmonic acid (JA), which controls a plethora of critically important processes in plants and is orchestrated by the transcription factor MYC2 and its closest relatives in Arabidopsis thaliana. We generated an integrated framework of the response to JA, which spans from the activity of master and secondary regulatory transcription factors, through gene expression outputs and alternative splicing, to protein abundance changes, protein phosphorylation and chromatin remodelling. We integrated time-series transcriptome analysis with (phospho)proteomic data to reconstruct gene regulatory network models. These enabled us to predict previously unknown points of crosstalk of JA to other signalling pathways and to identify new components of the JA regulatory mechanism, which we validated through targeted mutant analysis. These results provide a comprehensive understanding of how a plant hormone remodels cellular functions and plant behaviour, the general principles of which provide a framework for analyses of cross-regulation between other hormone and stress signalling pathways.
PXD010612	32171124	CIP2A Constrains Th17 Differentiation by Modulating STAT3 Signaling. 	CIP2A negatively regulates Th17 differentiation	STAT3 phosphorylation, Th17 cell differentiation	Cancerous Inhibitor of Protein Phosphatase 2A (CIP2A) is an oncogene and a potential cancer therapy target protein. Accordingly, a better understanding of the physiological function of CIP2A, especially in the context of immune cells, is a prerequisite for its exploitation in cancer therapy. Here, we report that CIP2A negatively regulates interleukin (IL)-17 production by Th17 cells in human and mouse. Interestingly, concomitant with increased IL-17 production, CIP2A-deficient Th17 cells had increased strength and duration of STAT3 phosphorylation. We analyzed the interactome of phosphorylated STAT3 in CIP2A-deficient and CIP2A-sufficient Th17 cells and indicated together with genome-wide gene expression profiling, a role of Acylglycerol Kinase (AGK) in the regulation of Th17 differentiation by CIP2A. We demonstrated that CIP2A regulates the strength of the interaction between AGK and STAT3, and thereby modulates STAT3 phosphorylation and expression of IL-17 in Th17 cells.
PXD015958	32173013	Plasma proteomic profiling and pathway analysis of normal and overconditioned dairy cows during the transition from late pregnancy to early lactation. 	Plasma proteomic profiling of normal and over-conditioned dairy cows during the transition from late pregnancy to early lactation by LC-MS/MS	Body condition score, TMT proteomics, transition cows	This study applied a quantitative proteomics approach along with bioinformatics analyses to investigate changes in the plasma proteome of normal and overconditioned dairy cows during the transition period. Fifteen weeks before their anticipated calving date, 38 multiparous Holstein cows were selected based on their current and previous body condition scores (BCS) and allocated to either a high or a normal BCS group (19 cows each). They received different diets until dry-off to reach targeted differences in BCS and back fat thickness (BFT) until dry-off. At dry-off, normal BCS cows had a BCS <3.5 (minimum, 2.75) and BFT <1.2 cm (minimum, 0.58), and the high BCS cows had a BCS >3.75 (maximum, 4.50) and BFT >1.4 cm (maximum, 2.90). The proteomics study used a subset of 5 animals from each group. These cows were selected based on their circulating concentrations of fatty acids (FA) on d 14 postpartum and beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) on d 21 postpartum, representing the greater or the lower extreme values within their BCS group, respectively. The high BCS subset (HE-HBCS) had 4.50 < BCS > 3.75, FA = 1.17 +/- 0.46 mmol/L, and BHB = 2.15 +/- 0.42 mmol/L (means +/- SD), and the low BCS subset (LE-NBCS) had 3.50 < BCS > 2.75, FA = 0.51 +/- 0.28 mmol/L, and BHB = 0.84 +/- 0.17 mmol/L. Plasma samples from d -49, +7, and +21 relative to parturition were used for proteome profiling by applying the quantitative tandem mass tags (TMT) approach. Nondepleted plasma samples were subjected to reduction and digestion and then labeled with TMT 10plex reagents. High-resolution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of TMT-labeled peptides was carried out, and the acquired spectra were analyzed for protein identification and quantification. In total, 254 quantifiable proteins (criteria: 2 unique peptides and 5% false discovery rate) were identified in the plasma samples. From these, 24 differentially abundant proteins (14 more abundant, 10 less abundant) were observed in the LE-NBCS cows compared with the HE-HBCS cows during the transition period. Plasma alpha-2-macroglobulins were more abundant in HE-HBCS versus LE-NBCS cows at d +7 and +21. Gene Ontology enrichment analyses of differentially abundant proteins revealed that the acute inflammatory response, regulation of complement activation, protein activation cascade, and regulation of humoral immune response were the most enriched terms in the LE-NBCS group compared with the HE-HBCS group. In addition, we identified 24 differentially abundant proteins (16 in the LE-NBCS group, and 8 in the HE-HBCS group) during the transition period. The complement components C1q and C5 were less abundant, while C3 and C3d were more abundant in LE-NBCS compared with HE-HBCS cows. Overall, overconditioning around calving was associated with alterations in protein pathways related to acute inflammatory response and regulation of complement and coagulation cascades in transition cows.
PXD006437	32174813	Proteomics Analysis of Brain Tissue in a Rat Model of Ischemic Stroke in the Acute Phase. 	Rats, Brain, LC-MSMS -  iTRAQ-Based Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Effect of Rhubarb in Rats with Ischemic Stroke	Brain, Rats	Background: Stroke is a leading health issue, with high morbidity and mortality rates worldwide. Of all strokes, approximately 80% of cases are ischemic stroke (IS). However, the underlying mechanisms of the occurrence of acute IS remain poorly understood because of heterogeneous and multiple factors. More potential biomarkers are urgently needed to reveal the deeper pathogenesis of IS. Methods: We identified potential biomarkers in rat brain tissues of IS using an iTRAQ labeling approach coupled with LC-MS/MS. Furthermore, bioinformatrics analyses including GO, KEGG, DAVID, and Cytoscape were used to present proteomic profiles and to explore the disease mechanisms. Additionally, Western blotting for target proteins was conducted for further verification. Results: We identified 4,578 proteins using the iTRAQ-based proteomics method. Of these proteins, 282 differentiated proteins, comprising 73 upregulated and 209 downregulated proteins, were observed. Further bioinformatics analysis suggested that the candidate proteins were mainly involved in energy liberation, intracellular protein transport, and synaptic plasticity regulation during the acute period. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis indicated a series of representative pathological pathways, including energy metabolite, long-term potentiation (LTP), and neurodegenerative disease-related pathways. Moreover, Western blotting confirmed the associated candidate proteins, which refer to oxidative responses and synaptic plasticity. Conclusions: Our findings highlight the identification of candidate protein biomarkers and provide insight into the biological processes involved in acute IS.
PXD015312	32175652	Insights into amebiasis using a human 3D-intestinal model. 	New insights into amebiasis using a human 3D-intestinal model	3D-intestinal model, infection	Entamoeba histolytica is the causative agent of amebiasis, an infectious disease targeting the intestine and the liver in humans. Two types of intestinal infection are caused by this parasite: silent infection, which occurs in the majority of cases, and invasive disease, which affects 10% of infected persons. To understand the intestinal pathogenic process, several in vitro models, such as cell cultures, human tissue explants or human intestine xenografts in mice, have been employed. Nevertheless, our knowledge on the early steps of amebic intestinal infection and the molecules involved during human-parasite interaction is scarce, in part due to limitations in the experimental settings. In the present work, we took advantage of tissue engineering approaches to build a three-dimensional (3D)-intestinal model that is able to replicate the general characteristics of the human colon. This system consists of an epithelial layer that develops tight and adherens junctions, a mucus layer and a lamina propria-like compartment made up of collagen containing macrophages and fibroblast. By means of microscopy imaging, omics assays and the evaluation of immune responses, we show a very dynamic interaction between E. histolytica and the 3D-intestinal model. Our data highlight the importance of several virulence markers occurring in patients or in experimental models, but they also demonstrate the involvement of under described molecules and regulatory factors in the amoebic invasive process.
PXD014847	32175694	Isoform-resolved correlation analysis between mRNA abundance regulation and protein level degradation. 	Isoform-resolved Correlation Analysis Between mRNA Abundance Dynamics and Protein Level Degradation	Alternative splicing, Correlation analysis, DIA mass spectrometry, Protein isoform, Protein turnover, Pulsed SILAC	Profiling of biological relationships between different molecular layers dissects regulatory mechanisms that ultimately determine cellular function. To thoroughly assess the role of protein post-translational turnover, we devised a strategy combining pulse stable isotope-labeled amino acids in cells (pSILAC), data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS), and a novel data analysis framework that resolves protein degradation rate on the level of mRNA alternative splicing isoforms and isoform groups. We demonstrated our approach by the genome-wide correlation analysis between mRNA amounts and protein degradation across different strains of HeLa cells that harbor a high grade of gene dosage variation. The dataset revealed that specific biological processes, cellular organelles, spatial compartments of organelles, and individual protein isoforms of the same genes could have distinctive degradation rate. The protein degradation diversity thus dissects the corresponding buffering or concerting protein turnover control across cancer cell lines. The data further indicate that specific mRNA splicing events such as intron retention significantly impact the protein abundance levels. Our findings support the tight association between transcriptome variability and proteostasis and provide a methodological foundation for studying functional protein degradation.
PXD010150	32175737	Accurate Identification of Deamidation and Citrullination from Global Shotgun Proteomics Data Using a Dual-Search Delta Score Strategy. 	Nanowell-Mediated Two-Dimensional Liquid Chromatography Proteome Profiling of Mammalian Cells	2D LC, microfluidics	Proteins with deamidated/citrullinated amino acids play critical roles in the pathogenesis of many human diseases; however, identifying these modifications in complex biological samples has been an ongoing challenge. Herein we present a method to accurately identify these modifications from shotgun proteomics data generated by a deep proteome profiling study of human pancreatic islets obtained by laser capture microdissection. All MS/MS spectra were searched twice using MSGF+ database matching, with and without a dynamic +0.9840 Da mass shift modification on amino acids asparagine, glutamine, and arginine (NQR). Consequently, each spectrum generates two peptide-to-spectrum matches (PSMs) with MSGF+ scores, which were used for the Delta Score calculation. It was observed that all PSMs with positive Delta Score values were clustered with mass errors around 0 ppm, while PSMs with negative Delta Score values were distributed nearly equally within the defined mass error range (20 ppm) for database searching. To estimate false discovery rate (FDR) of modified peptides, a "target-mock" strategy was applied in which data sets were searched against a concatenated database containing "real-modified" (+0.9840 Da) and "mock-modified" (+1.0227 Da) peptide masses. The FDR was controlled to ~2% using a Delta Score filter value greater than zero. Manual inspection of spectra showed that PSMs with positive Delta Score values contained deamidated/citrullinated fragments in their MS/MS spectra. Many citrullinated sites identified in this study were biochemically confirmed as autoimmunogenic epitopes of autoimmune diseases in literature. The results demonstrated that in situ deamidated/citrullinated peptides can be accurately identified from shotgun tissue proteomics data using this dual-search Delta Score strategy. Raw MS data is available at ProteomeXchange (PXD010150).
PXD011926	32175818	The Noonan Syndrome Gene Lztr1 Controls Cardiovascular Function by Regulating Vesicular Trafficking. 	Lztr1 loss leads to Noonan syndrome-like vascular defects by dysregulating vesicular trafficking	CHMP1B, HeLa cells, Lztr1, Noonan syndrome, VEGF, ubiquitin, vesicular trafficking	RATIONALE: Noonan syndrome (NS) is one of the most frequent genetic disorders. Bleeding problems are among the most common, yet poorly defined complications associated with NS. A lack of consensus on the management of bleeding complications in patients with NS indicates an urgent need for new therapeutic approaches. OBJECTIVE: Bleeding disorders have recently been described in patients with NS harboring mutations of LZTR1 (leucine zipper-like transcription regulator 1), an adaptor for CUL3 (CULLIN3) ubiquitin ligase complex. Here, we assessed the pathobiology of LZTR1-mediated bleeding disorders. METHODS AND RESULTS: Whole-body and vascular specific knockout of Lztr1 results in perinatal lethality due to cardiovascular dysfunction. Lztr1 deletion in blood vessels of adult mice leads to abnormal vascular leakage. We found that defective adherent and tight junctions in Lztr1-depleted endothelial cells are caused by dysregulation of vesicular trafficking. LZTR1 affects the dynamics of fusion and fission of recycling endosomes by controlling ubiquitination of the ESCRT-III (endosomal sorting complex required for transport III) component CHMP1B (charged multivesicular protein 1B), whereas NS-associated LZTR1 mutations diminish CHMP1B ubiquitination. LZTR1-mediated dysregulation of CHMP1B ubiquitination triggers endosomal accumulation and subsequent activation of VEGFR2 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2) and decreases blood levels of soluble VEGFR2 in Lztr1 haploinsufficient mice. Inhibition of VEGFR2 activity by cediranib rescues vascular abnormalities observed in Lztr1 knockout mice Conclusions: Lztr1 deletion phenotypically overlaps with bleeding diathesis observed in patients with NS. ELISA screening of soluble VEGFR2 in the blood of LZTR1-mutated patients with NS may predict both the severity of NS phenotypes and potential responders to anti-VEGF therapy. VEGFR inhibitors could be beneficial for the treatment of bleeding disorders in patients with NS.
PXD017928	32175919	Plasminogen as a prognostic biomarker for HBV-related acute-on-chronic liver failure. 	development of prognostic biomarkers for HBV-related acute-on-chronic liver failure	prognostic biomarkers	BACKGROUNDHBV-related acute-on-chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF) is hallmarked by high short-term mortality rates, calling for accurate prognostic biomarkers for initial risk stratification.METHODSThree tandem mass tag-labeled (TMT-labeled) quantitative proteomic studies were performed on 10 patients with HBV-related acute hepatic decompensation and on 20 patients with HBV-ACLF. Candidate biomarkers were preliminarily verified in a cross-sectional cohort (n = 144) and further confirmed in 2 prospective cohorts (n = 207 and n = 148).RESULTSPlasminogen, a potential prognostic biomarker for HBV-ACLF, was identified by TMT quantitative proteomics and preliminarily verified in the cross-sectional cohort. Further validation with a prospective cohort (n = 207) showed that plasminogen levels at admission were significantly lower (P < 0.001) in HBV-ACLF nonsurvivors than in survivors. The cumulative survival duration of patients with high plasminogen levels was significantly longer (P < 0.001) than that of patients with low plasminogen levels. During hospitalization, plasminogen levels significantly decreased (P = 0.008) in the deterioration group but significantly increased (P < 0.001) in the improvement group. Additionally, plasminogen levels gradually increased in survivors but gradually decreased in nonsurvivors. The P5 score, a prognostic panel incorporating plasminogen levels, hepatic encephalopathy occurrence, age, international normalized ratio (INR), and total bilirubin, was significantly superior to the Child-Pugh, Model for End-stage Liver Disease (MELD), Chronic Liver Failure Consortium ACLF (CLIF-C ACLF), Chinese Group on the Study of Severe Hepatitis B (COSSH), and HINT (a prognostic score based on hepatic encephalopathy occurrence, INR, neutrophil count, and thyroid-stimulating hormone) scores (all P < 0.05). The performances of the plasminogen level and P5 score were validated in a second multicenter, prospective cohort (n = 148).CONCLUSIONSPlasminogen is a promising prognostic biomarker for HBV-ACLF, and sequential plasminogen measurements could profile the clinical course of HBV-ACLF. P5 is a high-performance prognostic score for HBV-ACLF.FUNDINGThe National Key Research and Development Program (2017YFC1200204); the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81400589, 81600497); the Foundation for Innovative Research Groups of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81121002); the Chinese High-Tech Research and Development Programs (2012AA020204); the National S&T Major Project (2012ZX10002004); and the Zhejiang Provincial Medicine and Health Science and Technology Project (2016147735).
PXD015416	32176689	The alarmones (p)ppGpp are part of the heat shock response of Bacillus subtilis. 	The alarmone (p)ppGpp is part of the heat shock response of Bacillus subtilis	(p)ppGpp, Bacillus subtilis, Heat stress response, Rel, Spx, alarmone, stringent response	Bacillus subtilis cells are well suited to study how bacteria sense and adapt to proteotoxic stress such as heat, since temperature fluctuations are a major challenge to soil-dwelling bacteria. Here, we show that the alarmones (p)ppGpp, well known second messengers of nutrient starvation, are also involved in the heat stress response as well as the development of thermo-resistance. Upon heat-shock, intracellular levels of (p)ppGpp rise in a rapid but transient manner. The heat-induced (p)ppGpp is primarily produced by the ribosome-associated alarmone synthetase Rel, while the small alarmone synthetases RelP and RelQ seem not to be involved. Furthermore, our study shows that the generated (p)ppGpp pulse primarily acts at the level of translation, and only specific genes are regulated at the transcriptional level. These include the down-regulation of some translation-related genes and the up-regulation of hpf, encoding the ribosome-protecting hibernation-promoting factor. In addition, the alarmones appear to interact with the activity of the stress transcription factor Spx during heat stress. Taken together, our study suggests that (p)ppGpp modulates the translational capacity at elevated temperatures and thereby allows B. subtilis cells to respond to proteotoxic stress, not only by raising the cellular repair capacity, but also by decreasing translation to concurrently reduce the protein load on the cellular protein quality control system.
PXD017780	32178365	Common and Strain-Specific Post-Translational Modifications of the Potyvirus Plum pox virus Coat Protein in Different Hosts. 	Common and strain-specific post-translational modifications of the potyvirus Plum pox virus coat protein in different hosts	Capsid protein, O-GlcNAcylation, phosphorylation, potyvirus, sharka	Phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation are widespread post-translational modifications (PTMs), often sharing protein targets. Numerous studies have reported the phosphorylation of plant viral proteins. In plants, research on O-GlcNAcylation lags behind that of other eukaryotes, and information about O-GlcNAcylated plant viral proteins is extremely scarce. The potyvirus Plum pox virus (PPV) causes sharka disease in Prunus trees and also infects a wide range of experimental hosts. Capsid protein (CP) from virions of PPV-R isolate purified from herbaceous plants can be extensively modified by O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation. In this study, a combination of proteomics and biochemical approaches was employed to broaden knowledge of PPV CP PTMs. CP proved to be modified regardless of whether or not it was assembled into mature particles. PTMs of CP occurred in the natural host Prunus persica, similarly to what happens in herbaceous plants. Additionally, we observed that O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation were general features of different PPV strains, suggesting that these modifications contribute to general strategies deployed during plant-virus interactions. Interestingly, phosphorylation at a casein kinase II motif conserved among potyviral CPs exhibited strain specificity in PPV; however, it did not display the critical role attributed to the same modification in the CP of another potyvirus, Potato virus A.
PXD007880	32179194	Large-scale Identification and Time-course Quantification of Ubiquitylation Events During Maize Seedling De-etiolation. 	Large-scale Identification and Time-course Quantification of Ubiquitylomes in De-etiolating Maize Seedling Leaf	C4 photosynthetic enzymes, De-etiolation, Maize seedling leaf, ribosome, ubiquitylation	The ubiquitin system is crucial for the development and fitness of higher plants. De-etiolation, during which green plants initiate photomorphogenesis and establish autotrophy, is a dramatic and complicated process that is tightly regulated by a massive number of ubiquitylation/de-ubiquitylation events. Here we present site-specific quantitative proteomic data for the ubiquitylomes of de-etiolating seedling leaves of Zea mays L. (exposed to light for 1, 6, or 12 h) achieved through immunoprecipitation-based high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS). Through the integrated analysis of multiple ubiquitylomes, we identified and quantified 1926 unique ubiquitylation sites corresponding to 1053 proteins. We analyzed these sites and found five potential ubiquitylation motifs, KA, AXK, KXG, AK, and TK. Time-course studies revealed that the ubiquitylation levels of 214 sites corresponding to 173 proteins were highly correlated across two replicate MS experiments, and significant alterations in the ubiquitylation levels of 78 sites (fold change >1.5) were detected after de-etiolation for 12 h. The majority of the ubiquitylated sites we identified corresponded to substrates involved in protein and DNA metabolism, such as ribosomes and histones. Meanwhile, multiple ubiquitylation sites were detected in proteins whose functions reflect the major physiological changes that occur during plant de-etiolation, such as hormone synthesis/signaling proteins, key C4 photosynthetic enzymes, and light signaling proteins. This study on the ubiquitylome of the maize seedling leaf is the first attempt ever to study the ubiquitylome of a C4 plant and provides the proteomic basis for elucidating the role of ubiquitylation during plant de-etiolation.
PXD017054	32179749	Chromatin accessibility promotes hematopoietic and leukemia stem cell activity. 	Chromatin accessibility promotes hematopoietic and leukemia stem cell activity	AML, Chromatin, HMGN1, leukemia	Chromatin organization is a highly orchestrated process that influences gene expression, in part by modulating access of regulatory factors to DNA and nucleosomes. Here, we report that the chromatin accessibility regulator HMGN1, a target of recurrent DNA copy gains in leukemia, controls myeloid differentiation. HMGN1 amplification is associated with increased accessibility, expression, and histone H3K27 acetylation of loci important for hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and leukemia, such as HoxA cluster genes. In vivo, HMGN1 overexpression is linked to decreased quiescence and increased HSC activity in bone marrow transplantation. HMGN1 overexpression also cooperates with the AML-ETO9a fusion oncoprotein to impair myeloid differentiation and enhance leukemia stem cell (LSC) activity. Inhibition of histone acetyltransferases CBP/p300 relieves the HMGN1-associated differentiation block. These data nominate factors that modulate chromatin accessibility as regulators of HSCs and LSCs, and suggest that targeting HMGN1 or its downstream effects on histone acetylation could be therapeutically active in AML.
PXD013707	32179766	In-depth proteome analysis of more than 12,500 proteins in buffalo mammary epithelial cell line identifies protein signatures for active proliferation and lactation. 	Deep proteome analysis of more than 12000 proteins in buffalo mammary epithelial cells identifies protein signatures for active proliferation and lactation	Buffalo, Mammary gland, Secretome, Subcellular	The mature mammary gland is made up of a network of ducts that terminates in alveoli. The innermost layer of alveoli is surrounded by the differentiated mammary epithelial cells (MECs), which are responsible for milk synthesis and secretion during lactation. However, the MECs are in a state of active proliferation during pregnancy, when they give rise to network like structures in the mammary gland. Buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) constitute a major source of milk for human consumption, and the MECs are the major precursor cells which are mainly responsible for their lactation potential. The proteome of MECs defines their functional state and suggests their role in various cellular activities such as proliferation and lactation. To date, the proteome profile of MECs from buffalo origin is not available. In the present study, we have profiled in-depth proteome of in vitro cultured buffalo MECs (BuMECs) during active proliferation using high throughput tandem mass spectrometry (MS). MS analysis identified a total of 8330, 5970, 5289, 4818 proteins in four sub-cellular fractions (SCFs) that included cytosolic (SCF-I), membranous and membranous organelle's (SCF-II), nuclear (SCF-III), and cytoskeletal (SCF-IV). However, 792 proteins were identified in the conditioned media, which represented the secretome. Altogether, combined analysis of all the five fractions (SCFs- I to IV, and secretome) revealed a total of 12,609 non-redundant proteins. The KEGG analysis suggested that these proteins were associated with 325 molecular pathways. Some of the highly enriched molecular pathways observed were metabolic, MAPK, PI3-AKT, insulin, estrogen, and cGMP-PKG signalling pathway. The newly identified proteins in this study are reported to be involved in NOTCH signalling, transport and secretion processes.
PXD008433	32181667	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Distinct Molecular Signatures of Different Cerebellum-Dependent Learning Paradigms. 	Differential quantitative proteome analysis of cerebellar flocculus on oculomotor behavior training mouse model	TMT labeling, flocculus, oculomotor behavior mouse model	The cerebellum improves motor performance by adjusting motor gain appropriately. As de novo protein synthesis is essential for the formation and retention of memories, we hypothesized that motor learning in the opposite direction would induce a distinct pattern of protein expression in the cerebellum. We conducted quantitative proteomic profiling to compare the level of protein expression in the cerebellum at 1 and 24 h after training from mice that underwent different paradigms of cerebellum-dependent oculomotor learning from specific directional changes in motor gain. We quantified a total of 43 proteins that were significantly regulated in each of the three learning paradigms in the cerebellum at 1 and 24 h after learning. In addition, functional enrichment analysis identified protein groups that were differentially enriched or depleted in the cerebellum at 24 h after the three oculomotor learnings, suggesting that distinct biological pathways may be engaged in the formation of three oculomotor memories. Weighted correlation network analysis discovered groups of proteins significantly correlated with oculomotor memory. Finally, four proteins (Snca, Sncb, Cttn, and Stmn1) from the protein group correlated with the learning amount after oculomotor training were validated by Western blot. This study provides a comprehensive and unbiased list of proteins related to three cerebellum-dependent motor learning paradigms, suggesting the distinct nature of protein expression in the cerebellum for each learning paradigm. The proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with identifiers <PXD008433>.
PXD017610	32181701	A Multi-Omics Approach to Liver Diseases: Integration of Single Nuclei Transcriptomics with Proteomics and HiCap Bulk Data in Human Liver. 	A multi-omics approach to liver diseases: integration of Single Nuclei Transcriptomics with Proteomics and Hi-Cap Bulk Data in human liver	Human Liver Single nuclei LCMS	The liver is the largest solid organ and a primary metabolic hub. In recent years, intact cell nuclei were used to perform single-nuclei RNA-seq (snRNA-seq) for tissues difficult to dissociate and for flash-frozen archived tissue samples to discover unknown and rare cell subpopulations. In this study, we performed snRNA-seq of a liver sample to identify subpopulations of cells based on nuclear transcriptomics. In 4282 single nuclei, we detected, on average, 1377 active genes and we identified seven major cell types. We integrated data from 94,286 distal interactions (p < 0.05) for 7682 promoters from a targeted chromosome conformation capture technique (HiCap) and mass spectrometry proteomics for the same liver sample. We observed a reasonable correlation between proteomics and in silico bulk snRNA-seq (r = 0.47) using tissue-independent gene-specific protein abundancy estimation factors. We specifically looked at genes of medical importance. The DPYD gene is involved in the pharmacogenetics of fluoropyrimidine toxicity and some of its variants are analyzed for clinical purposes. We identified a new putative polymorphic regulatory element, which may contribute to variation in toxicity. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer and we investigated all known risk genes. We identified a complex regulatory landscape for the SLC2A2 gene with 16 candidate enhancers. Three of them harbor somatic motif breaking and other mutations in HCC in the Pan Cancer Analysis of Whole Genomes dataset and are candidates to contribute to malignancy. Our results highlight the potential of a multi-omics approach in the study of human diseases.
PXD020348	32182071	Accelerated Lysis and Proteolytic Digestion of Biopsy-Level Fresh-Frozen and FFPE Tissue Samples Using Pressure Cycling Technology. 	PCT2G_15min_HCC_25patients_115_files	15min, HCC, PCT2G, SWATH	Pressure cycling technology (PCT)-assisted tissue lysis and digestion have facilitated reproducible and high-throughput proteomic studies of both fresh-frozen (FF) and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue of biopsy scale for biomarker discovery. Here, we present an improved PCT method accelerating the conventional procedures by about two-fold without sacrificing peptide yield, digestion efficiency, peptide, and protein identification. The time required for processing 16 tissue samples from tissues to peptides is reduced from about 6 to about 3 h. We analyzed peptides prepared from FFPE hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissue samples by the accelerated PCT method using multiple MS acquisition methods, including short-gradient SWATH-MS, PulseDIA-MS, and 10-plex TMT-based shotgun MS. The data showed that up to 8541 protein groups could be reliably quantified from the thus prepared peptide samples. We applied the accelerated sample preparation method to 25 pairs (tumorous and matched benign) of HCC samples followed by a single-shot, 15 min gradient SWATH-MS analysis. An average of 18 453 peptides from 2822 proteins were quantified in at least 20% samples in this cohort, while 1817 proteins were quantified in at least 50% samples. The data not only identified the previously known dysregulated proteins such as MCM7, MAPRE1, and SSRP1 but also discovered promising novel protein markers, including DRAP1 and PRMT5. In summary, we present an accelerated PCT protocol that effectively doubles the throughput of PCT-assisted sample preparation of biopsy-level FF and FFPE samples without compromising protein digestion efficiency, peptide yield, and protein identification.
PXD010807	32182160	Multiplexed Phosphoproteomic Study of Brain in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease and Age-Matched Cognitively Healthy Controls. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of brain form Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease (AD), Phosphoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), TMT	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder caused by neuronal loss that results in cognitive and functional impairment. Formation of neurofibrillary tangles composed of abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau protein is one of the major pathological hallmarks of AD. Importantly, several neurodegenerative disorders, including AD, are associated with abnormal protein phosphorylation events. However, little is known thus far on global protein phosphorylation changes in AD. We report a phosphoproteomics study examining the frontal gyrus of people with AD and age-matched cognitively normal subjects, using tandem mass tag (TMT) multiplexing technology along with immobilized metal affinity chromatography to enrich phosphopeptides. We identified 4631 phosphopeptides corresponding to 1821 proteins with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (MS)/MS analysis on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos Tribrid mass spectrometer. Of these, 504 phosphopeptides corresponding to 350 proteins were significantly altered in the AD brain: 389 phosphopeptides increased whereas 115 phosphopeptides decreased phosphorylation. We observed significant changes in phosphorylation of known as well as novel molecules. Using targeted parallel reaction monitoring experiments, we validated the phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau and myristoylated alanine-rich protein kinase C substrate (MARCKS) in control and AD (Control = 6, AD = 11) brain samples. In conclusion, our study provides new evidence on alteration of RNA processing and splicing, neurogenesis and neuronal development, and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (GRM5) calcium signaling pathways in the AD brain, and it thus offers new insights to accelerate diagnostics and therapeutics innovation in AD.
PXD015380	32182340	Multi-omic analysis of gametogenesis reveals a novel signature at the promoters and distal enhancers of active genes. 	Multi-omic analysis of gametogenesis reveals a novel signature at the promoters and distal enhancers of active genes	Crotonylation, Histones, Mouse spermatogenesis, Omics data integration, Promoters and enhancers	Epigenetic regulation of gene expression is tightly controlled by the dynamic modification of histones by chemical groups, the diversity of which has largely expanded over the past decade with the discovery of lysine acylations, catalyzed from acyl-coenzymes A. We investigated the dynamics of lysine acetylation and crotonylation on histones H3 and H4 during mouse spermatogenesis. Lysine crotonylation appeared to be of significant abundance compared to acetylation, particularly on Lys27 of histone H3 (H3K27cr) that accumulates in sperm in a cleaved form of H3. We identified the genomic localization of H3K27cr and studied its effects on transcription compared to the classical active mark H3K27ac at promoters and distal enhancers. The presence of both marks was strongly associated with highest gene expression. Assessment of their co-localization with transcription regulators (SLY, SOX30) and chromatin-binding proteins (BRD4, BRDT, BORIS and CTCF) indicated systematic highest binding when both active marks were present and different selective binding when present alone at chromatin. H3K27cr and H3K27ac finally mark the building of some sperm super-enhancers. This integrated analysis of omics data provides an unprecedented level of understanding of gene expression regulation by H3K27cr in comparison to H3K27ac, and reveals both synergistic and specific actions of each histone modification.
PXD012551	32182352	A multi-layered structure of the interphase chromocenter revealed by proximity-based biotinylation. 	Intricate structure of the interphase chromocenter revealed by the analysis of a factor involved in species formation	Drosophila, centromeres, chromatin proteomics, chromocenter	During interphase centromeres often coalesce into a small number of chromocenters, which can be visualized as distinct, DAPI dense nuclear domains. Intact chromocenters play a major role in maintaining genome stability as they stabilize the transcriptionally silent state of repetitive DNA while ensuring centromere function. Despite its biological importance, relatively little is known about the molecular composition of the chromocenter or the processes that mediate chromocenter formation and maintenance. To provide a deeper molecular insight into the composition of the chromocenter and to demonstrate the usefulness of proximity-based biotinylation as a tool to investigate those questions, we performed super resolution microscopy and proximity-based biotinylation experiments of three distinct proteins associated with the chromocenter in Drosophila. Our work revealed an intricate internal architecture of the chromocenter suggesting a complex multilayered structure of this intranuclear domain.
PXD015310	32182356	YBEY is an essential biogenesis factor for mitochondrial ribosomes. 	YBEY is an essential biogenesis factor for mitochondrial ribosomes	mitochondira, ribosomes	Ribosome biogenesis requires numerous trans-acting factors, some of which are deeply conserved. In Bacteria, the endoribonuclease YbeY is believed to be involved in 16S rRNA 3'-end processing and its loss was associated with ribosomal abnormalities. In Eukarya, YBEY appears to generally localize to mitochondria (or chloroplasts). Here we show that the deletion of human YBEY results in a severe respiratory deficiency and morphologically abnormal mitochondria as an apparent consequence of impaired mitochondrial translation. Reduced stability of 12S rRNA and the deficiency of several proteins of the small ribosomal subunit in YBEY knockout cells pointed towards a defect in mitochondrial ribosome biogenesis. The specific interaction of mitoribosomal protein uS11m with YBEY suggests that the latter helps to properly incorporate uS11m into the nascent small subunit in its late assembly stage. This scenario shows similarities with final stages of cytosolic ribosome biogenesis, and may represent a late checkpoint before the mitoribosome engages in translation.
PXD015675	32182430	Venom Peptide Repertoire of the European Myrmicine Ant Manica rubida: Identification of Insecticidal Toxins. 	Mass spectrometry of Manica rubida venom	ant, peptide, venom	Using an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic approach, we characterized the venom peptidome of the European red ant, Manica rubida. We identified 13 "myrmicitoxins" that share sequence similarities with previously identified ant venom peptides, one of them being identified as an EGF-like toxin likely resulting from a threonine residue modified by O-fucosylation. Furthermore, we conducted insecticidal assays of reversed-phase HPLC venom fractions on the blowfly Lucilia caesar, permitting us to identify six myrmicitoxins (i.e., U3-, U10-, U13-, U20-MYRTX-Mri1a, U10-MYRTX-Mri1b, and U10-MYRTX-Mri1c) with an insecticidal activity. Chemically synthesized U10-MYRTX-Mri1a, -Mri1b, -Mri1c, and U20-MYRTX-Mri1a irreversibly paralyzed blowflies at the highest doses tested (30-125 nmol.g(-1)). U13-MYRTX-Mri1a, the most potent neurotoxic peptide at 1 h, had reversible effects after 24 h (150 nmol.g(-1)). Finally, U3-MYRTX-Mri1a has no insecticidal activity, even at up to 55 nmol.g(-1). Thus, M. rubida employs a paralytic venom rich in linear insecticidal peptides, which likely act by disrupting cell membranes.
PXD017271	32182883	Assessing the Effects of Redox Modifier MnTnBuOE-2-PyP 5+ on Cognition and Hippocampal Physiology Following Doxorubicin, Cyclophosphamide, and Paclitaxel Treatment. 	Assessing the Effects of Redox Modifier MnTnBuOE-2-PyP 5+ on Cognition and Hippocampal Physiology Following Doxorubicin, Cyclophosphamide, and Paclitaxel Treatment	Cognition, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Hippocampus, MnTnBuOE-2-PyP, Paclitaxel	BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer can induce cognitive impairments often involving oxidative stress. The brain, as a whole, is susceptible to oxidative stress due to its high-energy requirements, limited anaerobic respiration capacities, and limited antioxidant defenses. The goal of the current study was to determine if the manganese porphyrin superoxide dismutase mimetic MnTnBuOE-2-PyP (MnBuOE) could ameliorate the effects of doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel (AC-T) on mature dendrite morphology and cognitive function. METHODS: Four-month-old female C57BL/6 mice received intraperitoneal injections of chemotherapy followed by subcutaneous injections of MnBuOE. Four weeks following chemotherapy treatment, mice were tested for hippocampus-dependent cognitive performance in the Morris water maze. After testing, brains were collected for Golgi staining and molecular analyses. RESULTS: MnBuOE treatment preserved spatial memory during the Morris water-maze. MnBuOE/AC-T showed spatial memory retention during all probe trials. AC-T treatment significantly impaired spatial memory retention in the first and third probe trial (no platform). AC-T treatment decreased dendritic length in the Cornu Ammonis 1 (CA1) and dentate gyrus (DG) areas of the hippocampus while AC-T/MnBuOE maintained dendritic length. Comparative proteomic analysis revealed affected protein networks associated with cell morphology and behavior functions in both the AC-T and AC-T/MnBuOE treatment groups.
PXD017648	32183026	Comprehensive Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Pepper Fruit Development Provides Insight into Plant Signaling Transduction. 	pepper fruit LC-MSMS          .	pepperfruitdevelopmentLC-MSMS	Limited knowledge is available for phosphorylation modifications in pepper (Capsicum annuum L.), especially in pepper fruit development. In this study, we conducted the first comprehensive phosphoproteomic analysis of pepper fruit at four development stage by Tandem Mass Tag proteomic approaches. A total of 2639 unique phosphopeptides spanning 1566 proteins with 4150 nonredundant sites of phosphorylation were identified, among which 2327 peptides in 1413 proteins were accurately quantified at four different stages. Mature Green (MG) to breaker stage showed the largest number of differentially expressed phosphoproteins and the number of downregulated phosphoproteins was significantly higher than that of upregulated after MG stage. Twenty seven phosphorylation motifs, including 22 pSer motifs and five pThr motifs and 85 kinase including 28 serine/threonine kinases, 14 receptor protein kinases, six mitogen-activated protein kinases, seven calcium-dependent protein kinases, two casein kinases, and some other kinases were quantified. Then the dynamic changes of phosphorylated proteins in ethylene and abscisic acid signaling transduction pathways during fruit development were analyzed. Our results provide a cascade of phosphoproteins and a regulatory network of phosphorylation signals, which help to further understand the mechanism of phosphorylation in pepper fruit development.
PXD016511	32183275	Proteomic Adaptation of Streptococcus pneumoniae to the Human Antimicrobial Peptide LL-37. 	Proteomic adaptation of Streptococcus pneumoniae to the human antimicrobial peptide LL-37	LL-37, Streptococcus pneumoniae, adaptation, antimicrobial peptide	Secreted antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are an important part of the human innate immune system and prevent local and systemic infections by inhibiting bacterial growth in a concentration-dependent manner. In the respiratory tract, the cationic peptide LL-37 is one of the most abundant AMPs and capable of building pore complexes in usually negatively charged bacterial membranes, leading to the destruction of bacteria. However, the adaptation mechanisms of several pathogens to LL-37 are already described and are known to weaken the antimicrobial effect of the AMP, for instance, by repulsion, export or degradation of the peptide. This study examines proteome-wide changes in Streptococcus pneumoniae D39, the leading cause of bacterial pneumonia, in response to physiological concentrations of LL-37 by high-resolution mass spectrometry. Our data indicate that pneumococci may use some of the known adaptation mechanisms to reduce the effect of LL-37 on their physiology, too. Additionally, several proteins seem to be involved in resistance to AMPs which have not been related to this process before, such as the teichoic acid flippase TacF (SPD_1128). Understanding colonization- and infection-relevant adaptations of the pneumococcus to AMPs, especially LL-37, could finally uncover new drug targets to weaken the burden of this widespread pathogen.
PXD037004	32183695	Cyclosporine a directly affects human and mouse b cell migration in vitro by disrupting a hIF-1 alphadependent, o2 sensing, molecular switch. 	Effect of hypoxia and treatment with cyclosporine A on chemotaxis of RAMOS B cells	B cells, CXCL12, HIF1A, cyclosporine, hypoxia, immunosuppressant	BACKGROUND: Hypoxia is a potent molecular signal for cellular metabolism, mitochondrial function, and migration. Conditions of low oxygen tension trigger regulatory cascades mediated via the highly conserved HIF-1 alpha post-translational modification system. In the adaptive immune response, B cells (Bc) are activated and differentiate under hypoxic conditions within lymph node germinal centers, and subsequently migrate to other compartments. During migration, they traverse through changing oxygen levels, ranging from 1-5% in the lymph node to 5-13% in the peripheral blood. Interestingly, the calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporine A is known to stimulate prolyl hydroxylase activity, resulting in HIF-1 alpha destabilization and may alter Bc responses directly. Over 60% of patients taking calcineurin immunosuppressant medications have hypo-gammaglobulinemia and poor vaccine responses, putting them at high risk of infection with significantly increased morbidity and mortality. RESULTS: We demonstrate that O 2 tension is a previously unrecognized Bc regulatory switch, altering CXCR4 and CXCR5 chemokine receptor signaling in activated Bc through HIF-1 alpha expression, and controlling critical aspects of Bc migration. Our data demonstrate that calcineurin inhibition hinders this O 2 regulatory switch in primary human Bc. CONCLUSION: This previously unrecognized effect of calcineurin inhibition directly on human Bc has significant and direct clinical implications.
PXD014873	32184257	Role of Plasmodium falciparum Protein GEXP07 in Maurer's Cleft Morphology, Knob Architecture, and P. falciparum EMP1 Trafficking. 	Plasmodium falciparum exported proteins co-immunoprecipitation LC-MS/MS	Maurers clefts, Plasmodium, immunoprecipitation	The malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum traffics the virulence protein P. falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1) to the surface of infected red blood cells (RBCs) via membranous organelles, known as the Maurer's clefts. We developed a method for efficient enrichment of Maurer's clefts and profiled the protein composition of this trafficking organelle. We identified 13 previously uncharacterized or poorly characterized Maurer's cleft proteins. We generated transfectants expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions of 7 proteins and confirmed their Maurer's cleft location. Using co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry, we generated an interaction map of proteins at the Maurer's clefts. We identified two key clusters that may function in the loading and unloading of PfEMP1 into and out of the Maurer's clefts. We focus on a putative PfEMP1 loading complex that includes the protein GEXP07/CX3CL1-binding protein 2 (CBP2). Disruption of GEXP07 causes Maurer's cleft fragmentation, aberrant knobs, ablation of PfEMP1 surface expression, and loss of the PfEMP1-mediated adhesion. DeltaGEXP07 parasites have a growth advantage compared to wild-type parasites, and the infected RBCs are more deformable and more osmotically fragile.IMPORTANCE The trafficking of the virulence antigen PfEMP1 and its presentation at the knob structures at the surface of parasite-infected RBCs are central to severe adhesion-related pathologies such as cerebral and placental malaria. This work adds to our understanding of how PfEMP1 is trafficked to the RBC membrane by defining the protein-protein interaction networks that function at the Maurer's clefts controlling PfEMP1 loading and unloading. We characterize a protein needed for virulence protein trafficking and provide new insights into the mechanisms for host cell remodeling, parasite survival within the host, and virulence.
PXD010921	32184263	SNAP29 mediates the assembly of histidine-induced CTP synthase filaments in proximity to the cytokeratin network. 	Identification of CTPS1 Filament Interacting Proteins	APEX2, CTPS, Cytokeratin, SNAP29	Under metabolic stress, cellular components can assemble into distinct membraneless organelles for adaptation. One such example is cytidine 5'-triphosphate synthase (CTPS, for which there are CTPS1 and CTPS2 forms in mammals), which forms filamentous structures under glutamine deprivation. We have previously demonstrated that histidine (His)-mediated methylation regulates the formation of CTPS filaments to suppress enzymatic activity and preserve the CTPS protein under glutamine deprivation, which promotes cancer cell growth after stress alleviation. However, it remains unclear where and how these enigmatic structures are assembled. Using CTPS-APEX2-mediated in vivo proximity labeling, we found that synaptosome-associated protein 29 (SNAP29) regulates the spatiotemporal filament assembly of CTPS along the cytokeratin network in a keratin 8 (KRT8)-dependent manner. Knockdown of SNAP29 interfered with assembly and relaxed the filament-induced suppression of CTPS enzymatic activity. Furthermore, APEX2 proximity labeling of keratin 18 (KRT18) revealed a spatiotemporal association of SNAP29 with cytokeratin in response to stress. Super-resolution imaging suggests that during CTPS filament formation, SNAP29 interacts with CTPS along the cytokeratin network. This study links the cytokeratin network to the regulation of metabolism by compartmentalization of metabolic enzymes during nutrient deprivation.
