PXD017923	32184267	The mammalian cytosolic thioredoxin reductase pathway acts via a membrane protein to reduce ER-localised proteins. 	The Mammalian Cytosolic Thioredoxin Reductase Pathway Acts via a Membrane Protein to Reduce ER-localised Proteins	Endoplasmic reticulum, Protein Folding, SICyLIA Redox Proteomics, Thioredoxin reductase system	Folding of proteins entering the mammalian secretory pathway requires the insertion of the correct disulfides. Disulfide formation involves both an oxidative pathway for their insertion and a reductive pathway to remove incorrectly formed disulfides. Reduction of these disulfides is crucial for correct folding and degradation of misfolded proteins. Previously, we showed that the reductive pathway is driven by NADPH generated in the cytosol. Here, by reconstituting the pathway using purified proteins and ER microsomal membranes, we demonstrate that the thioredoxin reductase system provides the minimal cytosolic components required for reducing proteins within the ER lumen. In particular, saturation of the pathway and its protease sensitivity demonstrates the requirement for a membrane protein to shuttle electrons from the cytosol to the ER. These results provide compelling evidence for the crucial role of the cytosol in regulating ER redox homeostasis, ensuring correct protein folding and facilitating the degradation of misfolded ER proteins.
PXD016988	32184286	Stress granules sense metabolic stress at the plasma membrane and potentiate recovery by storing active Pkc1. 	Identification of Stress Granule interactor proteins in yeast S. cerevisiae	BioID, Pab1, Pub1, Stress Granule	As the physical barrier between the cell and the outside environment, the plasma membrane is well-positioned to be the first responder to stress. The membrane is also highly vulnerable to many types of perturbation, including heat, force, osmotic pressure, lipid shortage, and starvation. To determine whether the structural changes in the plasma membrane of Saccharomyces cerevisiae brought about by nutrient stress can be communicated to regulatory networks within the cell, we identified proteins that interact with stress granules (SGs), subcellular structures composed of proteins, and nontranslated RNAs that form when cells are stressed. We found that SG proteins interacted with components of eisosomes, which are subcortical membrane structures with a distinct lipid and protein composition. In response to starvation-triggered phosphorylation of eisosome proteins, eisosomes clustered and recruited SG components, including active Pkc1. The absence of eisosomes impaired SG formation, resulting in delayed recovery from nutrient deprivation. Thus, eisosome clustering is an example of interdomain communication in response to stress and identifies a previously unknown mechanism of SG regulation.
PXD016103	32184287	PTPN22 phosphorylation acts as a molecular rheostat for the inhibition of TCR signaling. 	Phosphorylation sites of PTPN22 treated by Calyculin A in 293T cells	PTPN22 phosphorylation	The hematopoietic-specific protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type 22 (PTPN22) is encoded by a major autoimmunity risk gene. PTPN22 inhibits T cell activation by dephosphorylating substrates involved in proximal T cell receptor (TCR) signaling. Here, we found by mass spectrometry that PTPN22 was phosphorylated at Ser(751) by PKCalpha in Jurkat and primary human T cells activated with phorbol ester/ionomycin or antibodies against CD3/CD28. The phosphorylation of PTPN22 at Ser(751) prolonged its half-life by inhibiting K48-linked ubiquitination and impairing recruitment of the phosphatase to the plasma membrane, which is necessary to inhibit proximal TCR signaling. Additionally, the phosphorylation of PTPN22 at Ser(751) enhanced the interaction of PTPN22 with the carboxyl-terminal Src kinase (CSK), an interaction that is impaired by the PTPN22 R620W variant associated with autoimmune disease. The phosphorylation of Ser(751) did not affect the recruitment of PTPN22 R620W to the plasma membrane but protected this mutant from degradation. Together, out data indicate that phosphorylation at Ser(751) mediates a reciprocal regulation of PTPN22 stability versus translocation to TCR signaling complexes by CSK-dependent and CSK-independent mechanisms.
PXD017231	32184353	DHHC7-mediated palmitoylation of the accessory protein barttin critically regulates the functions of ClC-K chloride channels. 	DHHC7-mediated palmitoylation of barttin is a risk factor for Bartter syndrome	Bartter syndrome, DHHC7, PANIMoni, barttin, palmitoylation	Barttin is the accessory subunit of the human ClC-K chloride channels, which are expressed in both the kidney and inner ear. Barttin promotes trafficking of the complex it forms with ClC-K to the plasma membrane and is involved in activating this channel. Barttin undergoes post-translational palmitoylation that is essential for its functions, but the enzyme(s) catalyzing this post-translational modification is unknown. Here, we identified zinc finger DHHC-type containing 7 (DHHC7) protein as an important barttin palmitoyl acyltransferase, whose depletion affected barttin palmitoylation and ClC-K-barttin channel activation. We investigated the functional role of barttin palmitoylation in vivo in Zdhhc7(-/-) mice. Although palmitoylation of barttin in kidneys of Zdhhc7(-/-) animals was significantly decreased, it did not pathologically alter kidney structure and functions under physiological conditions. However, when Zdhhc7(-/-) mice were fed a low-salt diet, they developed hyponatremia and mild metabolic alkalosis, symptoms characteristic of human Bartter syndrome (BS) type IV. Of note, we also observed decreased palmitoylation of the disease-causing R8L barttin variant associated with human BS type IV. Our results indicate that dysregulated DHHC7-mediated barttin palmitoylation appears to play an important role in chloride channel dysfunction in certain BS variants, suggesting that targeting DHHC7 activity may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for reducing hypertension.
PXD016731	32184434	Rhein, a novel Histone Deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor with antifibrotic potency in human myocardial fibrosis. 	Rhein, a novel Histone Deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor with antifibrotic potency in human myocardial fibrosis	Cardiac remodeling, DIA, HDAC inhibition, Lumos, Spectronaut, fibrosis, hypoxia, secretome	Although fibrosis depicts a reparative mechanism, maladaptation of the heart due to excessive production of extracellular matrix accelerates cardiac dysfunction. The anthraquinone Rhein was examined for its anti-fibrotic potency to mitigate cardiac fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition (FMT). Primary human ventricular cardiac fibroblasts were subjected to hypoxia and characterized with proteomics, transcriptomics and cell functional techniques. Knowledge based analyses of the omics data revealed a modulation of fibrosis-associated pathways and cell cycle due to Rhein administration during hypoxia, whereas p53 and p21 were identified as upstream regulators involved in the manifestation of cardiac fibroblast phenotypes. Mechanistically, Rhein acts inhibitory on HDAC classes I/II as enzymatic inhibitor. Rhein-mediated cellular effects were linked to the histone deacetylase (HDAC)-dependent protein stabilization of p53 under normoxic but not hypoxic conditions. Functionally, Rhein inhibited collagen contraction, indicating anti-fibrotic property in cardiac remodeling. This was accompanied by increased abundance of SMAD7, but not SMAD2/3, and consistently SMAD-specific E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2. In conclusion, this study identifies Rhein as a novel potent direct HDAC inhibitor that may contribute to the treatment of cardiac fibrosis as anti-fibrotic agent. As readily available drug with approved safety, Rhein constitutes a promising potential therapeutic approach in the supplemental and protective intervention of cardiac fibrosis.
PXD015496	32185169	Membrane Modulation of Super-Secreting "midiBacillus" Expressing the Major Staphylococcus aureus Antigen - A Mass-Spectrometry-Based Absolute Quantification Approach. 	Membrane modulation of super-secreting "midiBacillus" expressing the major Staphylococcus aureus antigen - a mass-spectrometry based absolute quantification approach.	Absolute Quantification, Heterologous Protein Production, Membrane Proteins, SRM	Bacillus subtilis has been extensively used as a microbial cell factory for industrial enzymes due to its excellent capacities for protein secretion and large-scale fermentation. This bacterium is also an attractive host for biopharmaceutical production. However, the secretion potential of this organism is not fully utilized yet, mostly due to a limited understanding of critical rearrangements in the membrane proteome upon high-level protein secretion. Recently, it was shown that bottlenecks in heterologous protein secretion can be resolved by genome minimization. Here, we present for the first time absolute membrane protein concentrations of a genome-reduced B. subtilis strain ("midiBacillus") expressing the immunodominant Staphylococcus aureus antigen A (IsaA). We quantitatively characterize the membrane proteome adaptation of midiBacillus during production stress on the level of molecules per cell for more than 400 membrane proteins, including determination of protein concentrations for ~61% of the predicted transporters. We demonstrate that ~30% of proteins with unknown functions display a significant increase in abundance, confirming the crucial role of membrane proteins in vital biological processes. In addition, our results show an increase of proteins dedicated to translational processes in response to IsaA induction. For the first time reported, we provide accumulation rates of a heterologous protein, demonstrating that midiBacillus secretes 2.41 molecules of IsaA per minute. Despite the successful secretion of this protein, it was found that there is still some IsaA accumulation occurring in the cytosol and membrane fraction, leading to a severe secretion stress response, and a clear adjustment of the cell's array of transporters. This quantitative dataset offers unprecedented insights into bioproduction stress responses in a synthetic microbial cell.
PXD016851	32187552	APOL1 C-Terminal Variants May Trigger Kidney Disease through Interference with APOL3 Control of Actomyosin. 	Study of APOL1-containing complexes in podocytes	APOL1, Kidney disease, podocytes	The C-terminal variants G1 and G2 of apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) confer human resistance to the sleeping sickness parasite Trypanosoma rhodesiense, but they also increase the risk of kidney disease. APOL1 and APOL3 are death-promoting proteins that are partially associated with the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi membranes. We report that in podocytes, either APOL1 C-terminal helix truncation (APOL1Delta) or APOL3 deletion (APOL3KO) induces similar actomyosin reorganization linked to the inhibition of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate [PI(4)P] synthesis by the Golgi PI(4)-kinase IIIB (PI4KB). Both APOL1 and APOL3 can form K(+) channels, but only APOL3 exhibits Ca(2+)-dependent binding of high affinity to neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1), promoting NCS-1-PI4KB interaction and stimulating PI4KB activity. Alteration of the APOL1 C-terminal helix triggers APOL1 unfolding and increased binding to APOL3, affecting APOL3-NCS-1 interaction. Since the podocytes of G1 and G2 patients exhibit an APOL1Delta or APOL3KO-like phenotype, APOL1 C-terminal variants may induce kidney disease by preventing APOL3 from activating PI4KB, with consecutive actomyosin reorganization of podocytes.
PXD017377	32188631	mRBPome capture identifies the RNA-binding protein TRIM71, an essential regulator of spermatogonial differentiation. 	Proteomic profiling of RNA binding proteins in mouse spermatogonial stem cell	RNA-binding proteins, mRNA interactome capture, shotgun proteomics, spermatogonial stem cell	Continual spermatogenesis relies on the actions of an undifferentiated spermatogonial population that is composed of stem cells and progenitors. Here, using mouse models, we explored the role of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in regulation of the biological activities of this population. Proteins bound to polyadenylated RNAs in primary cultures of undifferentiated spermatogonia were captured with oligo (dT)-conjugated beads after UV-crosslinking and profiled by proteomics (termed mRBPome capture), yielding a putative repertoire of 473 RBPs. From this database, the RBP TRIM71 was identified and found to be expressed by stem and progenitor spermatogonia in prepubertal and adult mouse testes. Tissue-specific deletion of TRIM71 in the male germline led to reduction of the undifferentiated spermatogonial population and a block in transition to the differentiating state. Collectively, these findings demonstrate a key role of the RBP system in regulation of the spermatogenic lineage and may provide clues about the influence of RBPs on the biology of progenitor cell populations in other lineages.
PXD012559	32189037	Quantitative phosphoproteomics to unravel the cellular response to chemical stressors with different modes of action. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics to unravel the cellular response to chemical stressors with different modes of action	Atm, Atr, CyclosporineA, Diethylmaleate, Et, Mdc1, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphorylation, SILAC, Topbp1, mESCs, post-translational modification, signal transduction	Damage to cellular macromolecules and organelles by chemical exposure evokes activation of various stress response pathways. To what extent different chemical stressors activate common and stressor-specific pathways is largely unknown. Here, we used quantitative phosphoproteomics to compare the signaling events induced by four stressors with different modes of action: the DNA damaging agent: cisplatin (CDDP), the topoisomerase II inhibitor: etoposide (ETO), the pro-oxidant: diethyl maleate (DEM) and the immunosuppressant: cyclosporine A (CsA) administered at an equitoxic dose to mouse embryonic stem cells. We observed major differences between the stressors in the number and identity of responsive phosphosites and the amplitude of phosphorylation. Kinase motif and pathway analyses indicated that the DNA damage response (DDR) activation by CDDP occurs predominantly through the replication-stress-related Atr kinase, whereas ETO triggers the DDR through Atr as well as the DNA double-strand-break-associated Atm kinase. CsA shares with ETO activation of CK2 kinase. Congruent with their known modes of action, CsA-mediated signaling is related to down-regulation of pathways that control hematopoietic differentiation and immunity, whereas oxidative stress is the most prominent initiator of DEM-modulated stress signaling. This study shows that even at equitoxic doses, different stressors induce distinctive and complex phosphorylation signaling cascades.
PXD016529	32191439	Nucleolin Discriminates Drastically between Long-Loop and Short-Loop Quadruplexes. 	Nucleolin uses its RBD2 domain to recognize long-loop G-Quadruplexes from human minisatellite CEB25	G-Quadruplex, G4-ligands, Nucleolin, RGG domain, RNA binding domain, long loop, photo-crosslinking	We investigate herein the interaction between nucleolin (NCL) and a set of G4 sequences derived from the CEB25 human minisatellite that adopt a parallel topology while differing in the length of the central loop (from nine nucleotides to one nucleotide). It is revealed that NCL strongly binds to long-loop (five to nine nucleotides) G4 while interacting weakly with the shorter variants (loop with fewer than three nucleotides). Photo-cross-linking experiments using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrU)-modified sequences further confirmed the loop-length dependency, thereby indicating that the WT-CEB25-L191 (nine-nucleotide loop) is the best G4 substrate. Quantitative proteomic analysis (LC-MS/MS) of the product(s) obtained by photo-cross-linking NCL to this sequence enabled the identification of one contact site corresponding to a 15-amino acid fragment located in helix alpha2 of RNA binding domain 2 (RBD2), which sheds light on the role of this structural element in G4-loop recognition. Then, the ability of a panel of benchmark G4 ligands to prevent the NCL-G4 interaction was explored. It was found that only the most potent ligand PhenDC3 can inhibit NCL binding, thereby suggesting that the terminal guanine quartet is also a strong determinant of G4 recognition, putatively through interaction with the RGG domain. This study describes the molecular mechanism by which NCL recognizes G4-containing long loops and leads to the proposal of a model implying a concerted action of RBD2 and RGG domains to achieve specific G4 recognition via a dual loop-quartet interaction.
PXD017578	32192150	Proteomic Analysis of Proteins Responsive to Drought and Low Temperature Stress in a Hard Red Spring Wheat Cultivar. 	Proteomic analysis of proteins responsive to drought and low temperature stress in a hard red spring wheat cultivar	abiotic stress, bread wheat, glutenin	Drought stress is becoming more prevalent with global warming, and has been shown tohave large effects on gluten proteins linked to wheat bread making quality. Likewise, lowtemperature stress can detrimentally affect proteins in wheat. This study was done to determine thedifferential abundance of high molecular weight (HMW) glutenin proteins in a drought and lowtemperature stressed high quality hard red spring wheat cultivar (PAN3478), against a control. Thetreatments were applied in the greenhouse at the soft dough stage. HMW glutenin proteins wereextracted from the flour, and were separated by using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Proteinspots that had p values lower than 0.05 and fold values equal to or greater than 1.2 were consideredto be significantly differentially abundant. These proteins were further analyzed by using tandemmass spectrometry. There was a 1.3 to 1.8 fold change in 17 protein spots due to the cold treatment.The drought treatment caused a 1.3 to 3.8 fold change in 19 protein spots. These spots matchedeither HMW or low molecular weight (LMW) glutenin subunits. In the latter case, the C subunits ofLMW glutenins were notably found to be up-regulated under both stress conditions. All the proteinsthat have been identified can directly influence dough characteristics. Data are available viaProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD017578.
PXD014997	32192169	Proteome and Phosphoproteome Changes Associated with Prognosis in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	MS-based proteomic and phosphoproteomic characterization of the AML proteome	Acute myeloid leukemia, human AML primary cells, phosphoproteomics, super-SILAC	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a hematological cancer that mainly affects the elderly. Although complete remission (CR) is achieved for the majority of the patients after induction and consolidation therapies, nearly two-thirds relapse within a short interval. Understanding biological factors that determine relapse has become of major clinical interest in AML. We utilized liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify the protein changes and protein phosphorylation events associated with AML relapse in primary cells from 41 AML patients at time of diagnosis. Patients were defined as relapse-free if they had not relapsed within a five-year clinical follow-up after AML diagnosis. Relapse was associated with increased expression of RNA processing proteins and decreased expression of V-ATPase proteins. We also observed an increase in phosphorylation events catalyzed by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and casein kinase 2 (CSK2). The biological relevance of the proteome findings was supported by cell proliferation assays using inhibitors of V-ATPase (bafilomycin), CSK2 (CX-4945), CDK4/6 (abemaciclib) and CDK2/7/9 (SNS-032). While bafilomycin preferentially inhibited the cells from relapse patients, the kinase inhibitors were less efficient in these cells. This suggests that therapy against the upregulated kinases could also target the factors inducing their upregulation rather than their activity. This study, therefore, presents markers that could help predict AML relapse and direct therapeutic strategies.
PXD017526	32193381	Endophilin-A3 and Galectin-8 control the clathrin-independent endocytosis of CD166. 	Quantitative proteomics on HeLa cell surface (iTraq)	HeLa, iTraq	While several clathrin-independent endocytic processes have been described so far, their biological relevance often remains elusive, especially in pathophysiological contexts such as cancer. In this study, we find that the tumor marker CD166/ALCAM (Activated Leukocyte Cell Adhesion Molecule) is a clathrin-independent cargo. We show that endophilin-A3-but neither A1 nor A2 isoforms-functionally associates with CD166-containing early endocytic carriers and physically interacts with the cargo. Our data further demonstrates that the three endophilin-A isoforms control the uptake of distinct subsets of cargoes. In addition, we provide strong evidence that the construction of endocytic sites from which CD166 is taken up in an endophilin-A3-dependent manner is driven by extracellular galectin-8. Taken together, our data reveal the existence of a previously uncharacterized clathrin-independent endocytic modality, that modulates the abundance of CD166 at the cell surface, and regulates adhesive and migratory properties of cancer cells.
PXD015894	32194606	The Arabidopsis Proteins AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B Are Multi-Functional Proteins Integrating Plant Immunity With Other Biological Processes. 	The protein interactomes of AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B unraveled common and specialized functions in plant immunity integrating distinct biological processes	Co-Immunoprecipitation, affinity purification, plant immunity	AtNHR2A (Arabidopsis thaliana nonhost resistance 2A) and AtNHR2B (Arabidopsis thaliana nonhost resistance 2B) are two proteins that participate in nonhost resistance, a broad-spectrum mechanism of plant immunity that protects plants against the majority of potential pathogens. AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B are localized to the cytoplasm, chloroplasts, and other subcellular compartments of unknown identity. The multiple localizations of AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B suggest that these two proteins are highly dynamic and versatile, likely participating in multiple biological processes. In spite of their importance, the specific functions of AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B have not been elucidated. Thus, to aid in the functional characterization of these two proteins and identify the biological processes in which these proteins operate, we used immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry (IP-MS) to identify proteins interacting with AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B and to generate their interactome network. Further validation of three of the identified proteins provided new insights into specific pathways and processes related to plant immunity where AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B participate. Moreover, the comprehensive analysis of the AtNHR2A- and AtNHR2B-interacting proteins using published empirical information revealed that the functions of AtNHR2A and AtNHR2B are not limited to plant immunity but encompass other biological processes.
PXD017381	32194990	Cardiopoietic stem cell therapy restores infarction-altered cardiac proteome. 	Cardiopoietic stem cell therapy restores infarction-altered cardiac proteome	Cardiopoiesis, heart failure, regenerative medicine, systems biology	Cardiopoietic stem cells have reached advanced clinical testing for ischemic heart failure. To profile their molecular influence on recipient hearts, systems proteomics was here applied in a chronic model of infarction randomized with and without human cardiopoietic stem cell treatment. Multidimensional label-free tandem mass spectrometry resolved and quantified 3987 proteins constituting the cardiac proteome. Infarction altered 450 proteins, reduced to 283 by stem cell treatment. Notably, cell therapy non-stochastically reversed a majority of infarction-provoked changes, remediating 85% of disease-affected protein clusters. Pathway and network analysis decoded functional reorganization, distinguished by prioritization of vasculogenesis, cardiac development, organ regeneration, and differentiation. Subproteome restoration nullified adverse ischemic effects, validated by echo-/electro-cardiographic documentation of improved cardiac chamber size, reduced QT prolongation and augmented ejection fraction post-cell therapy. Collectively, cardiopoietic stem cell intervention transitioned infarcted hearts from a cardiomyopathic trajectory towards pre-disease. Systems proteomics thus offers utility to delineate and interpret complex molecular regenerative outcomes.
PXD017051	32195182	Identification of Novel Biomarkers in Pancreatic Tumor Tissue to Predict Response to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy. 	Identification of Novel Biomarkers in Pancreatic Tumor Tissue to Predict Response to Neoadjuvant ChemotherapyIdentification of Novel Biomarkers in Pancreatic Tumor Tissue to Predict Response to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Biomarkers, Human Proteome Project, Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy, Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, Proteom, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	Background: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) has been of recent interest as an alternative to upfront surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). However, a subset of patients does not respond to NAC and may have been better managed by upfront surgery. Hence, there is an unmet need for accurate biomarkers for predicting NAC response in PDAC. We aimed to identify upregulated proteins in tumor tissue from poor- and good-NAC responders. Methods: Tumor and adjacent pancreas tissue samples were obtained following surgical resection from NAC-treated PDAC patients. SWATH-MS proteomic analysis was performed to identify and quantify proteins in tissue samples. Statistical analysis was performed to identify biomarkers for NAC response. Pathway analysis was performed to characterize affected canonical pathways in good- and poor-NAC responders. Results: A total of 3,156 proteins were identified, with 19 being were significantly upregulated in poor-responders compared to good-responders (log2 ratio > 2, p < 0.05). Those with the greatest ability to predict poor-NAC response were GRP78, CADM1, PGES2, and RUXF. Notably, canonical pathways that were significantly upregulated in good-responders included acute phase signaling and macrophage activation, indicating a heightened immune response in these patients. Conclusion: A novel biomarker signature for poor-NAC response in PDAC was identified.
PXD016837	32195252	KANK2 Links alphaVbeta5 Focal Adhesions to Microtubules and Regulates Sensitivity to Microtubule Poisons and Cell Migration. 	The melanoma cell line MDA-MB-435 adhesome in long-term culture and its comparison to the adhesome upon integrin alphaV knockdown	MDA-MB-435S, adhesome, cancer, cortical microtubule stabilisation complex, integrin adhesion complex, integrin alphaVbeta5, melanoma	Integrins are heterodimeric glycoproteins that bind cells to extracellular matrix. Upon integrin clustering, multimolecular integrin adhesion complexes (IACs) are formed, creating links to the cell cytoskeleton. We have previously observed decreased cell migration and increased sensitivity to microtubule (MT) poisons, paclitaxel and vincristine, in the melanoma cell line MDA-MB-435S upon transfection with integrin alphaV-specific siRNA, suggesting a link between adhesion and drug sensitivity. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, we determined alphaV-dependent changes in IAC composition. Using mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics, we analyzed the components of isolated IACs of MDA-MB-435S cells and two MDA-MB-435S-derived integrin alphaV-specific shRNA-expressing cell clones with decreased expression of integrin alphaV. MS analysis showed that cells preferentially use integrin alphaVbeta5 for the formation of IACs. The differential analysis between MDA-MB-435S cells and clones with decreased expression of integrin alphaV identified key components of integrin alphaVbeta5 adhesion complexes as talins 1 and 2, alpha-actinins 1 and 4, filamins A and B, plectin and vinculin. The data also revealed decreased levels of several components of the cortical microtubule stabilization complex, which recruits MTs to adhesion sites (notably liprins alpha and beta, ELKS, LL5beta, MACF1, KANK1, and KANK2), following alphaV knockdown. KANK2 knockdown in MDA-MB-435S cells mimicked the effect of integrin alphaV knockdown and resulted in increased sensitivity to MT poisons and decreased migration. Taken together, we conclude that KANK2 is a key molecule linking integrin alphaVbeta5 IACs to MTs, and enabling the actin-MT crosstalk that is important for both sensitivity to MT poisons and cell migration.
PXD011629	32195335	An array of 60,000 antibodies for proteome-scale antibody generation and target discovery. 	IP-MS target protein identification	maize, protein identification, zebrafish	Antibodies are essential for elucidating gene function. However, affordable technology for proteome-scale antibody generation does not exist. To address this, we developed Proteome Epitope Tag Antibody Library (PETAL) and its array. PETAL consists of 62,208 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against 15,199 peptides from diverse proteomes. PETAL harbors binders for a great multitude of proteins in nature due to antibody multispecificity, an intrinsic antibody feature. Distinctive combinations of 10,000 to 20,000 mAbs were found to target specific proteomes by array screening. Phenotype-specific mAb-protein pairs were found for maize and zebrafish samples. Immunofluorescence and flow cytometry mAbs for membrane proteins and chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing mAbs for transcription factors were identified from respective proteome-binding PETAL mAbs. Differential screening of cell surface proteomes of tumor and normal tissues identified internalizing tumor antigens for antibody-drug conjugates. By finding high-affinity mAbs at a fraction of current time and cost, PETAL enables proteome-scale antibody generation and target discovery.
PXD015674	32195589	Rapid and Quantitative Protein Precipitation for Proteome Analysis by Mass Spectrometry. 	Rapid and quantitative precipitation of a yeast proteome	acetone, bottom-up, salt, temperature, throughput	Protein precipitation is a common front-end preparation strategy for proteome analysis, as well as other applications (e.g., protein depletion for small molecule analysis, bulk commercial preparation of protein). Highly variable conditions used to precipitate proteins, ranging in solvent type, strength, time, and temperature, reflect inconsistent and low recovery. As a consequence, incomplete proteome coverage diminishes the utility of precipitation for proteome sample preparation ahead of mass spectrometry. We herein investigate and optimize the conditions affecting protein recovery through precipitation using acetone at a defined ionic strength. By increasing the salt concentration and incubation temperature with 80% acetone, we show that rapid (2 min) precipitation provides consistently high protein recovery (98 +/- 1%) of complex proteome extracts. Rapid precipitation is also applicable to isolate dilute proteins starting as low as 1 mug mL(-1). Furthermore, analysis of the protein pellet by bottom-up mass spectrometry (MS) reveals unbiased recovery of all proteins with respect to molecular weight, isoelectric point (pI), and hydrophobicity. Our robust strategy to isolate proteins maximizes recovery and throughput, exploiting the analytical advantages of precipitation over alternative techniques. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015674.
PXD011383	32197906	Preoperative plasma biomarkers associated with atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass surgery. 	Analysis of the preoperative plasma samples of sinus rhythm and POAF in CABG using Proteomic study	postoperative atrial fibrillation, sinus rhythm	OBJECTIVES: Postoperative atrial fibrillation (POAF) is a common complication in coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) procedures. This prospective study aimed to investigate predisposition of proteins and metabolites correlated to POAF after CABG and related cellular pathways. METHODS: Preoperative plasma samples from patients undergoing CABG procedures were prospectively collected. After CABG, the patients were grouped to POAF or sinus rhythm (N = 170; n = 90 in the discovery set and n = 80 in the validation set). The plasma samples were analyzed using proteomics, metabolomics, and bioinformatics to identify the differential proteins and differential metabolites. The correlation between differential proteins and POAF was also investigated by multivariable regression analysis and receiver operator characteristic analysis. RESULTS: In the POAF(+) group, 29 differential proteins and 61 differential metabolites were identified compared with the POAF(-) group. The analysis of integrated omics revealed that preoperative alteration of peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor alpha and glutathione metabolism pathways increased the susceptibility of POAF after CABG. There was a correlation between plasma levels of apolipoprotein-C3, phospholipid transfer protein, glutathione peroxidase 3, cholesteryl ester transfer protein, and POAF. CONCLUSIONS: The present study for first time at multi-omics levels explored the mechanism of POAF and validated the results in a new cohort of patients, suggesting preexisting differential proteins and differential metabolites in the plasma of patients prone to POAF after CABG. Dysregulation of peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor alpha and glutathione metabolism pathways related to metabolic remodeling and redox imbalance-associated electrical remodeling may play a key role in the pathogenesis of POAF. Lower plasma phospholipid transfer protein, apolipoprotein-C3, higher cholesteryl ester transfer protein and glutathione peroxidase 3 levels are linked with POAF. These proteins/metabolites may be developed as biomarkers to predict POAF.
PXD008916	32198399	Chromosome organization by a conserved condensin-ParB system in the actinobacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum. 	Protein complexes from C.glutamicum	protein complex	Higher-order chromosome folding and segregation are tightly regulated in all domains of life. In bacteria, details on nucleoid organization regulatory mechanisms and function remain poorly characterized, especially in non-model species. Here, we investigate the role of DNA-partitioning protein ParB and SMC condensin complexes in the actinobacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum. Chromosome conformation capture reveals SMC-mediated long-range interactions around ten centromere-like parS sites clustered at the replication origin (oriC). At least one oriC-proximal parS site is necessary for reliable chromosome segregation. We use chromatin immunoprecipitation and photoactivated single-molecule localization microscopy to show the formation of distinct, parS-dependent ParB-nucleoprotein subclusters. We further show that SMC/ScpAB complexes, loaded via ParB at parS sites, mediate chromosomal inter-arm contacts (as previously shown in Bacillus subtilis). However, the MukBEF-like SMC complex MksBEFG does not contribute to chromosomal DNA-folding; instead, this complex is involved in plasmid maintenance and interacts with the polar oriC-tethering factor DivIVA. Our results complement current models of ParB-SMC/ScpAB crosstalk and show that some condensin complexes evolved functions that are apparently uncoupled from chromosome folding.
PXD017588	32198447	Global proteomic analysis deciphers the mechanism of action of plant derived oleic acid against Candida albicans virulence and biofilm formation. 	Global proteomic analysis deciphers the mechanism of action of plant derived oleic acid against Candida albicans virulence and biofilm formation	2D electrophoresis, Candida albicans, MALDI-TOF-TOF, Oleic acid	Candida albicans is a commensal fungus in humans, mostly found on the mucosal surfaces of the mouth, gut, vagina and skin. Incidence of ever increasing invasive candidiasis in immunocompromised patients, alarming occurrence of antifungal resistance and insufficient diagnostic methods demand more focused research into C. albicans pathogenicity. Consequently, in the present study, oleic acid from Murraya koenigii was shown to have the efficacy to inhibit biofilm formation and virulence of Candida spp. Results of in vitro virulence assays and gene expression analysis, impelled to study the protein targets which are involved in the molecular pathways of C. albicans pathogenicity. Proteomic studies of differentially expressed proteins reveals that oleic acid induces oxidative stress responses and mainly targets the proteins involved in glucose metabolism, ergosterol biosynthesis, lipase production, iron homeostasis and amino acid biosynthesis. The current study emphasizes anti-virulent potential of oleic acid which can be used as a therapeutic agent to treat Candida infections.
PXD014356	32199284	Matrix decoded - A pancreatic extracellular matrix with organ specific cues guiding human iPSC differentiation. 	Proteomic analysi of decellularized porcine pancreas	Porcine, pancreas	The extracellular matrix represents a dynamic microenvironment regulating essential cell functions in vivo. Tissue engineering approaches aim to recreate the native niche in vitro using biological scaffolds generated by organ decellularization. So far, the organ specific origin of such scaffolds was less considered and potential consequences for in vitro cell culture remain largely elusive. Here, we show that organ specific cues of biological scaffolds affect cellular behavior. In detail, we report on the generation of a well-preserved pancreatic bioscaffold and introduce a scoring system allowing standardized inter-study quality assessment. Using multiple analysis tools for in-depth-characterization of the biological scaffold, we reveal unique compositional, physico-structural, and biophysical properties. Finally, we prove the functional relevance of the biological origin by demonstrating a regulatory effect of the matrix on multi-lineage differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells emphasizing the significance of matrix specificity for cellular behavior in artificial microenvironments.
PXD016554	32201362	An experimentally generated peptide database increases the sensitivity of XL-MS with complex samples. 	An experimentally generated peptide database increases the sensitivity in XL-MS of complex samples	20 S proteasome, Bacillus cereus, Bacillus subtilis, Cross-linking, Peptide database, PolII, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, TFIIH, XL-MS, benchmarking, machine learning	Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) is steadily expanding its range of applications from purified protein complexes to more complex samples like organelles and even entire cells. One main challenge using non-cleavable cross-linkers is the so-called n(2) problem: With linearly increasing database size, the search space for the identification of two covalently linked peptides per spectrum increases quadratically. Here, we report an alternative search strategy that focuses on only those peptides, which were demonstrated to cross-link under the applied experimental conditions. The performance of a parallel XL-MS experiment using a thiol-cleavable cross-linker enabled the identification of peptides that carried a cleaved cross-link moiety after reduction and hence were involved in cross-linking reactions. Based on these identifications, a peptide database was generated and used for the database search of the actual cross-linking experiment with a non-cleavable cross-linker. This peptide-focused approach was tested on protein complexes with a reported structural model and obtained results corresponded well to a conventional database search. An application of the strategy on in vivo cross-linked Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus cereus cells revealed a five- to tenfold reduction in search time and led to significantly more identifications with the latter species than a search against the entire proteome. SIGNIFICANCE: Instead of considering all theoretically cross-linkable peptides in a proteome, identification and pre-filtering for a subset of cross-link peptide candidates allows for a dramatically decreased search space. Hence, there is less potential for the random accumulation of false positives ultimately leading to a higher sensitivity in the XL-MS experiment. Using the peptide-focused approach, a cross-linking database search can be conducted in a fraction of time while yielding a similar or higher number of identifications, thereby enabling the cross-linking analysis of samples of mammalian proteome complexity.
PXD013616	32201722	Global crotonylome reveals CDYL-regulated RPA1 crotonylation in homologous recombination-mediated DNA repair. 	The Role of CDYL-Regulated Crotonylation of RPA1 in Homologous Recombination-Mediated DNA Repair	CDYL, Crotonylation, DNA Repair, RPA1	Previously, we reported that chromodomain Y-like (CDYL) acts as a crotonyl-coenzyme A hydratase and negatively regulates histone crotonylation (Kcr). However, the global CDYL-regulated crotonylome remains unclear. Here, we report a large-scale proteomics analysis for protein Kcr. We identify 14,311 Kcr sites across 3734 proteins in HeLa cells, providing by far the largest crotonylome dataset. We show that depletion of CDYL alters crotonylome landscape affecting diverse cellular pathways. Specifically, CDYL negatively regulated Kcr of RPA1, and mutation of the Kcr sites of RPA1 impaired its interaction with single-stranded DNA and/or with components of resection machinery, supporting a key role of RPA1 Kcr in homologous recombination DNA repair. Together, our study indicates that protein crotonylation has important implication in various pathophysiological processes.
PXD017803	32202424	A Triple Knockout Isobaric-Labeling Quality Control Platform with an Integrated Online Database Search. 	A Triple KnockOut Isobaric-labelling Quality Control Platform in an Integrated On-line Database Search	SPS-MS3, Shiny application, TKO standard, TMT, TVT, iTRAQ, ion interference	Sample multiplexing using isobaric tagging is a powerful strategy for proteome-wide protein quantification. One major caveat of isobaric tagging is ratio compression that results from the isolation, fragmentation, and quantification of coeluting, near-isobaric peptides, a phenomenon typically referred to as "ion interference". A robust platform to ensure quality control, optimize parameters, and enable comparisons across samples is essential as new instrumentation and analytical methods evolve. Here, we introduce TKO-iQC, an integrated platform consisting of the Triple Knockout (TKO) yeast digest standard and an automated web-based database search and protein profile visualization application. We highlight two new TKO standards based on the TMTpro reagent (TKOpro9 and TKOpro16) as well as an updated TKO Viewing Tool, TVT2.0. TKO-iQC greatly facilitates the comparison of instrument performance with a straightforward and streamlined workflow.
PXD014381	32202429	The Proteomic Landscape of Cysteine Oxidation That Underpins Retinoic Acid-Induced Neuronal Differentiation. 	Redox proteome analysis identifies reversible oxidized proteins in retinoic acid differentiated SH-SY5Y cells	dynamics, neuronal differentiation, redox, redox proteomics	The initial phases of neuronal differentiation are key to neuronal function. A particularly informative model to study these initial phases are retinoic acid-stimulated SH-SY5Y cells. Although these progressions are associated with redox-sensitive processes, it is largely undefined how the cellular proteome underpins redox dynamics and the management of reactive oxygen species. Here, we map the global cysteine-based redox landscape of SH-SY5Y cells using quantitative redox proteomics. We find evidence that redox alterations occurred early in differentiation and affect the expression of neuronal marker proteins and the extension of neurites. The spatiotemporal analysis of reactive oxygen species suggests a NOX2-dependent peak in cytoplasmic superoxide anions/hydrogen peroxide generation 2 h after retinoic acid stimulation. At the same time point, 241 out of 275 proteins with an altered cysteine redox state are reversibly oxidized in response to retinoic acid. Our analyses pinpoint redox alterations of proteins involved in the retinoic acid homeostasis and cytoskeletal dynamics.
PXD016730	32202800	Identification of Putative Early Atherosclerosis Biomarkers by Unsupervised Deconvolution of Heterogeneous Vascular Proteomes. 	Identification of Putative Early Atherosclerosis Biomarkers by Unsupervised Deconvolution of Heterogeneous Vascular Proteomes	Atherosclerosis, Tissue Fibrous Plaque proteome	Coronary artery disease remains a leading cause of death in industrialized nations, and early detection of disease is a critical intervention target to effectively treat patients and manage risk. Proteomic analysis of mixed tissue homogenates may obscure subtle protein changes that occur uniquely in underlying tissue subtypes. The unsupervised 'convex analysis of mixtures' (CAM) tool has previously been shown to effectively segregate cellular subtypes from mixed expression data. In this study, we hypothesized that CAM would identify proteomic information specifically informative to early atherosclerosis lesion involvement that could lead to potential markers of early disease detection. We quantified the proteome of 99 paired abdominal aorta (AA) and left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) specimens (N = 198 specimens total) acquired during autopsy of young adults free of diagnosed cardiac disease. The CAM tool was then used to segregate protein subsets uniquely associated with different underlying tissue types, yielding markers of normal and fibrous plaque (FP) tissues in LAD and AA (N = 62 lesions markers). CAM-derived FP marker expression was validated against pathologist estimated luminal surface involvement of FP, as well as in an orthogonal cohort of "pure" fibrous plaque, fatty streak, and normal vascular specimens. A targeted mass spectrometry (MS) assay quantified 39 of 62 CAM-FP markers in plasma from women with angiographically verified coronary artery disease (CAD, N = 46) or free from apparent CAD (control, N = 40). Elastic net variable selection with logistic regression reduced this list to 10 proteins capable of classifying CAD status in this cohort with <6% misclassification error, and a mean area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.992 (confidence interval 0.968-0.998) after cross validation. The proteomics-CAM workflow identified lesion-specific molecular biomarker candidates by distilling the most representative molecules from heterogeneous tissue types.
PXD017196	32203490	RQT complex dissociates ribosomes collided on endogenous RQC substrate SDD1. 	The dissociation of RQT complex on ribosome	in vitro reaction, ribosome	Ribosome-associated quality control (RQC) represents a rescue pathway in eukaryotic cells that is triggered upon translational stalling. Collided ribosomes are recognized for subsequent dissociation followed by degradation of nascent peptides. However, endogenous RQC-inducing sequences and the mechanism underlying the ubiquitin-dependent ribosome dissociation remain poorly understood. Here, we identified SDD1 messenger RNA from Saccharomyces cerevisiae as an endogenous RQC substrate and reveal the mechanism of its mRNA-dependent and nascent peptide-dependent translational stalling. In vitro translation of SDD1 mRNA enabled the reconstitution of Hel2-dependent polyubiquitination of collided disomes and, preferentially, trisomes. The distinct trisome architecture, visualized using cryo-EM, provides the structural basis for the more-efficient recognition by Hel2 compared with that of disomes. Subsequently, the Slh1 helicase subunit of the RQC trigger (RQT) complex preferentially dissociates the first stalled polyubiquitinated ribosome in an ATP-dependent manner. Together, these findings provide fundamental mechanistic insights into RQC and its physiological role in maintaining cellular protein homeostasis.
PXD016633	32203518	IL-23 signaling regulation of pro-inflammatory T-cell migration uncovered by phosphoproteomics. 	Mouse Th17 T cells, IL-23 stimulated	IL-23, T lymphocyte, Th17	Interleukin 23 (IL-23) triggers pathogenic features in pro-inflammatory, IL-17-secreting T cells (Th17 and Tgammadelta17) that play a key role in the development of inflammatory diseases. However, the IL-23 signaling cascade remains largely undefined. Here, we used quantitative phosphoproteomics to characterize IL-23 signaling in primary murine Th17 cells. We quantified 6,888 phosphorylation sites in Th17 cells and found 168 phosphorylations regulated upon IL-23 stimulation. IL-23 increased the phosphorylation of the myosin regulatory light chain (RLC), an actomyosin contractibility marker, in Th17 and Tgammadelta17 cells. IL-23-induced RLC phosphorylation required Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) catalytic activity, and further study of the IL-23/ROCK connection revealed an unexpected role of IL-23 in the migration of Tgammadelta17 and Th17 cells through ROCK activation. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of ROCK reduced Tgammadelta17 recruitment to inflamed skin upon challenge with inflammatory agent Imiquimod. This work (i) provides new insights into phosphorylation networks that control Th17 cells, (ii) widely expands the current knowledge on IL-23 signaling, and (iii) contributes to the increasing list of immune cells subsets characterized by global phosphoproteomic approaches.
PXD017060	32203567	beta-Catenin/CBP inhibition alters epidermal growth factor receptor fucosylation status in oral squamous cell carcinoma. 	N-Glycosylation of the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Derived from Human Oral Squamous Carcinoma Cells with beta-Catenin/CREB-Binding Protein (CBP) Inhibition	CAL27, CREB-binding protein, EGFR, HSC-3, OSCC, beta-catenin/CBP inhibition, epidermal growth factor receptor, glycopeptide, glycoproteomics, head and neck cancer, oral squamous cell carcinoma	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a major driver of head and neck cancer, a devastating malignancy with a major sub-site in the oral cavity manifesting as oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). EGFR is a glycoprotein receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) whose activity is upregulated in >80% OSCC. Current anti-EGFR therapy relies on the use of cetuximab, a monoclonal antibody against EGFR, although it has had only a limited response in patients. Here, we uncover a novel mechanism regulating EGFR activity, identifying a role of the nuclear branch of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, the beta-catenin/CBP axis, in control of post-translational modification of N-glycans on the EGFR. Genomic and structural analyses reveal that beta-catenin/CBP signaling represses fucosylation on the antennae of N-linked glycans on EGFR. By employing nUPLC-MS/MS, we determined that malignant human OSCC cells harbor EGFR with a paucity of N-glycan antennary fucosylation, while indolent cells display higher levels of fucosylation at sites N420 and N579. Additionally, treatment with either ICG-001 or E7386, which are both small molecule inhibitors of beta-catenin/CBP signaling, leads to increased transcriptional expression of fucosyltransferases FUT2 and FUT3, with a concomitant increase in EGFR N-glycan antennary fucosylation. In order to discover which fucosylated glycan epitopes are involved in the observed effect, we performed in-depth characterization of multiply-fucosylated N-glycans via tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the EGFR tryptic glycopeptides. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017060. We propose that beta-catenin/CBP signaling promotes EGFR oncogenic activity in OSCC by inhibiting its N-glycan antennary fucosylation through transcriptional repression of FUT2 and FUT3.
PXD013277	32205417	DEqMS: A Method for Accurate Variance Estimation in Differential Protein Expression Analysis. 	E.Coli spike in to human cell line MCF-7	E.Coli, MCF7, Spike in, TMT	Quantitative proteomics by mass spectrometry is widely used in biomarker research and basic biology research for investigation of phenotype level cellular events. Despite the wide application, the methodology for statistical analysis of differentially expressed proteins has not been unified. Various methods such as t test, linear model and mixed effect models are used to define changes in proteomics experiments. However, none of these methods consider the specific structure of MS-data. Choices between methods, often originally developed for other types of data, are based on compromises between features such as statistical power, general applicability and user friendliness. Furthermore, whether to include proteins identified with one peptide in statistical analysis of differential protein expression varies between studies. Here we present DEqMS, a robust statistical method developed specifically for differential protein expression analysis in mass spectrometry data. In all data sets investigated there is a clear dependence of variance on the number of PSMs or peptides used for protein quantification. DEqMS takes this feature into account when assessing differential protein expression. This allows for a more accurate data-dependent estimation of protein variance and inclusion of single peptide identifications without increasing false discoveries. The method was tested in several data sets including E. coli proteome spike-in data, using both label-free and TMT-labeled quantification. Compared with previous statistical methods used in quantitative proteomics, DEqMS showed consistently better accuracy in detecting altered protein levels compared with other statistical methods in both label-free and labeled quantitative proteomics data. DEqMS is available as an R package in Bioconductor.
PXD017039	32205440	Broad and thematic remodeling of the surfaceome and glycoproteome on isogenic cells transformed with driving proliferative oncogenes. 	Broad and thematic remodeling of the surface glycoproteome on isogenic cells tranformed with driving proliferative oncogenes	Glycoproteomics, MAPK signaling pathway, Oncogenes, Surfaceome	The cell surface proteome, the surfaceome, is the interface for engaging the extracellular space in normal and cancer cells. Here we apply quantitative proteomics of N-linked glycoproteins to reveal how a collection of some 700 surface proteins is dramatically remodeled in an isogenic breast epithelial cell line stably expressing any of six of the most prominent proliferative oncogenes, including the receptor tyrosine kinases, EGFR and HER2, and downstream signaling partners such as KRAS, BRAF, MEK, and AKT. We find that each oncogene has somewhat different surfaceomes, but the functions of these proteins are harmonized by common biological themes including up-regulation of nutrient transporters, down-regulation of adhesion molecules and tumor suppressing phosphatases, and alteration in immune modulators. Addition of a potent MEK inhibitor that blocks MAPK signaling brings each oncogene-induced surfaceome back to a common state reflecting the strong dependence of the oncogene on the MAPK pathway to propagate signaling. Cell surface protein capture is mediated by covalent tagging of surface glycans, yet current methods do not afford sequencing of intact glycopeptides. Thus, we complement the surfaceome data with whole cell glycoproteomics enabled by a recently developed technique called activated ion electron transfer dissociation (AI-ETD). We found massive oncogene-induced changes to the glycoproteome and differential increases in complex hybrid glycans, especially for KRAS and HER2 oncogenes. Overall, these studies provide a broad systems-level view of how specific driver oncogenes remodel the surfaceome and the glycoproteome in a cell autologous fashion, and suggest possible surface targets, and combinations thereof, for drug and biomarker discovery.
PXD015571	32207244	ECE2 regulates neurogenesis and neuronal migration during human cortical development. 	ECE2 regulates Neurogenesis and Neuronal Migration during Cortical Development.	CE2, cerebral organoids, embryonic development, periventricular heterotopia	During embryonic development, excitatory projection neurons migrate in the cerebral cortex giving rise to organised layers. Periventricular heterotopia (PH) is a group of aetiologically heterogeneous disorders in which a subpopulation of newborn projection neurons fails to initiate their radial migration to the cortex, ultimately resulting in bands or nodules of grey matter lining the lateral ventricles. Although a number of genes have been implicated in its cause, currently they only satisfactorily explain the pathogenesis of the condition for 50% of patients. Novel gene discovery is complicated by the extreme genetic heterogeneity recently described to underlie its cause. Here, we study the neurodevelopmental role of endothelin-converting enzyme-2 (ECE2) for which two biallelic variants have been identified in two separate patients with PH. Our results show that manipulation of ECE2 levels in human cerebral organoids and in the developing mouse cortex leads to ectopic localisation of neural progenitors and neurons. We uncover the role of ECE2 in neurogenesis, and mechanistically, we identify its involvement in the generation and secretion of extracellular matrix proteins in addition to cytoskeleton and adhesion.
PXD017214	32207952	S-Trap Eliminates Cell Culture Media Polymeric Surfactants for Effective Proteomic Analysis of Mammalian Cell Bioreactor Supernatants. 	S-Trap eliminates Pluronic F68 and cell culture media polymers for effective proteomic analysis of mammalian cell bioreactor supernatants	S-trap, SP3, alkylation, bioreactor samples, bottom-up proteomics, polymer contaminants, sample preparation	Proteomic analysis of bioreactor supernatants can inform on cellular metabolic status, viability, and productivity, as well as product quality, which can in turn help optimize bioreactor operation. Incubating mammalian cells in bioreactors requires the addition of polymeric surfactants such as Pluronic F68, which reduce the sheer stress caused by agitation. However, these surfactants are incompatible with mass spectrometry proteomics and must be eliminated during sample preparation. Here, we compared four different sample preparation methods to eliminate polymeric surfactants from filtered bioreactor supernatant samples: organic solvent precipitation; filter-assisted sample preparation (FASP); S-Trap; and single-pot, solid-phase, sample preparation (SP3). We found that SP3 and S-Trap substantially reduced or eliminated the polymer(s), but S-Trap provided the most robust cleanup and highest quality data. Additionally, we observed that SP3 sample preparation of our samples and in other published data sets was associated with partial alkylation of cysteines, which could impact the confidence and robustness of protein identification and quantification. Finally, we observed that several commercial mammalian cell culture media and media supplements also contained polymers with similar mass spectrometry profiles, and we suggest that proteomic analyses in these media will also benefit from the use of S-Trap sample preparation.
PXD011961	32209477	Shifts in Ribosome Engagement Impact Key Gene Sets in Neurodevelopment and Ubiquitination in Rett Syndrome. 	Shifts in Ribosome Engagement Impact Key Gene Sets in Neurodevelopment and Rett Syndrome Neurons	MS proteomics, RNAseq, Rett syndrome	Regulation of translation during human development is poorly understood, and its dysregulation is associated with Rett syndrome (RTT). To discover shifts in mRNA ribosomal engagement (RE) during human neurodevelopment, we use parallel translating ribosome affinity purification sequencing (TRAP-seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on control and RTT human induced pluripotent stem cells, neural progenitor cells, and cortical neurons. We find that 30% of transcribed genes are translationally regulated, including key gene sets (neurodevelopment, transcription and translation factors, and glycolysis). Approximately 35% of abundant intergenic long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are ribosome engaged. Neurons translate mRNAs more efficiently and have longer 3' UTRs, and RE correlates with elements for RNA-binding proteins. RTT neurons have reduced global translation and compromised mTOR signaling, and >2,100 genes are translationally dysregulated. NEDD4L E3-ubiquitin ligase is translationally impaired, ubiquitinated protein levels are reduced, and protein targets accumulate in RTT neurons. Overall, the dynamic translatome in neurodevelopment is disturbed in RTT and provides insight into altered ubiquitination that may have therapeutic implications.
PXD017582	32209682	Tailoring a Global Iron Regulon to a Uropathogen. 	Proteomic studies of Escherichia coli CFT073 and MG1655	CFT073, Fur, RyhB, Sigma S, UPEC, iron regulation, metabolic adaptation, ppGpp	Pathogenicity islands and plasmids bear genes for pathogenesis of various Escherichia coli pathotypes. Although there is a basic understanding of the contribution of these virulence factors to disease, less is known about variation in regulatory networks in determining disease phenotypes. Here, we dissected a regulatory network directed by the conserved iron homeostasis regulator, ferric uptake regulator (Fur), in uropathogenic E. coli (UPEC) strain CFT073. Comparing anaerobic genome-scale Fur DNA binding with Fur-dependent transcript expression and protein levels of the uropathogen to that of commensal E. coli K-12 strain MG1655 showed that the Fur regulon of the core genome is conserved but also includes genes within the pathogenicity/genetic islands. Unexpectedly, regulons indicative of amino acid limitation and the general stress response were also indirectly activated in the uropathogen fur mutant, suggesting that induction of the Fur regulon increases amino acid demand. Using RpoS levels as a proxy, addition of amino acids mitigated the stress. In addition, iron chelation increased RpoS to the same levels as in the fur mutant. The increased amino acid demand of the fur mutant or iron chelated cells was exacerbated by aerobic conditions, which could be partly explained by the O2-dependent synthesis of the siderophore aerobactin, encoded by an operon within a pathogenicity island. Taken together, these data suggest that in the iron-poor environment of the urinary tract, amino acid availability could play a role in the proliferation of this uropathogen, particularly if there is sufficient O2 to produce aerobactin.IMPORTANCE Host iron restriction is a common mechanism for limiting the growth of pathogens. We compared the regulatory network controlled by Fur in uropathogenic E. coli (UPEC) to that of nonpathogenic E. coli K-12 to uncover strategies that pathogenic bacteria use to overcome iron limitation. Although iron homeostasis functions were regulated by Fur in the uropathogen as expected, a surprising finding was the activation of the stringent and general stress responses in the uropathogen fur mutant, which was rescued by amino acid addition. This coordinated global response could be important in controlling growth and survival under nutrient-limiting conditions and during transitions from the nutrient-rich environment of the lower gastrointestinal (GI) tract to the more restrictive environment of the urinary tract. The coupling of the response of iron limitation to increased demand for amino acids could be a critical attribute that sets UPEC apart from other E. coli pathotypes.
PXD016140	32209718	Structural and Functional Changes in Prokaryotic Communities in Artificial Pit Mud during Chinese Baijiu Production. 	Structural and functional changes in prokaryotic communities in artificial pit mud during Chinese Baijiu production	Artificial pit mud, Metabolomics, Metaproteomics, Microorganism, Strong-avor baijiu	The Chinese alcoholic beverage strong-flavor baijiu (SFB) gets its characteristic flavor during fermentation in cellars lined with pit mud. Microbes in the pit mud produce key precursors of flavor esters. The maturation time of natural pit mud of over 20 years has promoted attempts to produce artificial pit mud (APM) with a shorter maturation time. However, knowledge about the molecular basis of APM microbial dynamics and associated functional variation during SFB brewing is limited, and the role of this variability in high-quality SFB production remains poorly understood. We studied APM maturation in new cellars until the fourth brewing batch using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, quantitative PCR, metaproteomics, and metabolomics techniques. A total of 36 prokaryotic classes and 195 genera were detected. Bacilli and Clostridia dominated consistently, and the relative abundance of Bacilli decreased along with the APM maturation. Even though both amplicon sequencing and quantitative PCR showed increased abundance of Clostridia, the levels of most of the Clostridium proteins were similar in both the first- and fourth-batch APM samples. Six genera correlated with eight or more major flavor compounds in SFB samples. Functional prediction suggested that the prokaryotic communities in the fourth-batch APM samples were actively engaged in organic acid metabolism, and the detected higher concentrations of proteins and metabolites in the corresponding metabolic pathways supported the prediction. This multi-omics approach captured changes in the abundances of specific microbial species, proteins, and metabolites during APM maturation, which are of great significance for the optimization of APM culture technique.IMPORTANCE Strong-flavor baijiu (SFB) accounts for more than 70% of all Chinese liquor production. In the Chinese baijiu brewing industry, artificial pit mud (APM) has been widely used since the 1960s to construct fermentation cellars for production of high-quality SFB. To gain insights at the systems level into the mechanisms driving APM prokaryotic taxonomic and functional dynamics and into how this variation is connected with high-quality SFB production, we performed the first combined metagenomic, metaproteomic, and metabolomic analyses of this brewing microecosystem. Together, the multi-omics approach enabled us to develop a more complete picture of the changing metabolic processes occurring in APM microbial communities during high-quality SFB production, which will be helpful for further optimization of APM culture technique and improvement of SFB quality.
PXD011279	32210230	Autophagy lipidation machinery regulates axonal microtubule dynamics but is dispensable for survival of mammalian neurons. 	Autophagy lipidation machinery regulates microtubule dynamics to maintain axonal homeostasis	LC3, autophagy, axonal homoeostasis, microtubule dynamics, neuron	Neurons maintain axonal homeostasis via employing a unique organization of the microtubule (MT) cytoskeleton, which supports axonal morphology and provides tracks for intracellular transport. Abnormal MT-based trafficking hallmarks the pathology of neurodegenerative diseases, but the exact mechanism regulating MT dynamics in axons remains enigmatic. Here we report on a regulation of MT dynamics by AuTophaGy(ATG)-related proteins, which previously have been linked to the autophagy pathway. We find that ATG proteins required for LC3 lipid conjugation are dispensable for survival of excitatory neurons and instead regulate MT stability via controlling the abundance of the MT-binding protein CLASP2. This function of ATGs is independent of their role in autophagy and requires the active zone protein ELKS1. Our results highlight a non-canonical role of ATG proteins in neurons and suggest that pharmacological activation of autophagy may not only promote the degradation of cytoplasmic material, but also impair axonal integrity via altering MT stability.
PXD013386	32210237	Metaproteomics characterizes human gut microbiome function in colorectal cancer. 	Metaproteomics characterizes human gut microbiota function in colorectal cancer	DIA, colorectal cancer, metaproteomics, microbiota	Pathogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC) is associated with alterations in gut microbiome. Previous studies have focused on the changes of taxonomic abundances by metagenomics. Variations of the function of intestinal bacteria in CRC patients compared to healthy crowds remain largely unknown. Here we collected fecal samples from CRC patients and healthy volunteers and characterized their microbiome using quantitative metaproteomic method. We have identified and quantified 91,902 peptides, 30,062 gut microbial protein groups, and 195 genera of microbes. Among the proteins, 341 were found significantly different in abundance between the CRC patients and the healthy volunteers. Microbial proteins related to iron intake/transport; oxidative stress; and DNA replication, recombination, and repair were significantly alternated in abundance as a result of high local concentration of iron and high oxidative stress in the large intestine of CRC patients. Our study shows that metaproteomics can provide functional information on intestinal microflora that is of great value for pathogenesis research, and can help guide clinical diagnosis in the future.
PXD017818	32210242	A Staphylococcus pro-apoptotic peptide induces acute exacerbation of pulmonary fibrosis. 	A Staphylococcus pro-apoptotic peptide induces acute exacerbation of pulmonary fibrosis	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Staphylococcus pro-apoptotic peptide	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic and fatal disease of unknown etiology; however, apoptosis of lung alveolar epithelial cells plays a role in disease progression. This intractable disease is associated with increased abundance of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus in the lungs, yet their roles in disease pathogenesis remain elusive. Here, we report that Staphylococcus nepalensis releases corisin, a peptide conserved in diverse staphylococci, to induce apoptosis of lung epithelial cells. The disease in mice exhibits acute exacerbation after intrapulmonary instillation of corisin or after lung infection with corisin-harboring S. nepalensis compared to untreated mice or mice infected with bacteria lacking corisin. Correspondingly, the lung corisin levels are significantly increased in human IPF patients with acute exacerbation compared to patients without disease exacerbation. Our results suggest that bacteria shedding corisin are involved in acute exacerbation of IPF, yielding insights to the molecular basis for the elevation of staphylococci in pulmonary fibrosis.
PXD017071	32210356	The novel cereblon modulator CC-885 inhibits mitophagy via selective degradation of BNIP3L. 	The novel cereblon modulator CC-885 inhibits mitophagy via selective degradation of BNIP3L	BNIP3L, CC-885, CRBN, Immunomodulatory Drugs (IMiDs), Mitophagy	Mitophagy is a degradative pathway that mediates the degradation of the entire mitochondria, and defects in this process are implicated in many diseases including cancer. In mammals, mitophagy is mediated by BNIP3L (also known as NIX) that is a dual regulator of mitochondrial turnover and programmed cell death pathways. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells with deficiency of BNIP3L are more sensitive to mitochondria-targeting drugs. But small molecular inhibitors for BNIP3L are currently not available. Some immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) have been proved by FDA for hematologic malignancies, however, the underlining molecular mechanisms are still elusive, which hindered the applications of BNIP3L inhibition for AML treatment. In this study we carried out MS-based quantitative proteomics analysis to identify the potential neosubstrates of a novel thalidomide derivative CC-885 in A549 cells. In total, we quantified 5029 proteins with 36 downregulated in CRBN(+/+) cell after CC-885 administration. Bioinformatic analysis showed that macromitophagy pathway was enriched in the negative pathway after CC-885 treatment. We further found that CC-885 caused both dose- and time-dependent degradation of BNIP3L in CRBN(+/+), but not CRBN(-/-) cell. Thus, our data uncover a novel role of CC-885 in the regulation of mitophagy by targeting BNIP3L for CRL4CRBN E3 ligase-dependent ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting that CC-885 could be used as a selective BNIP3L degradator for the further investigation. Furthermore, we demonstrated that CC-885 could enhance AML cell sensitivity to the mitochondria-targeting drug rotenone, suggesting that combining CC-885 and mitochondria-targeting drugs may be a therapeutic strategy for AML patients.
PXD014818	32210923	Loss of the Periplasmic Chaperone Skp and Mutations in the Efflux Pump AcrAB-TolC Play a Role in Acquired Resistance to Antimicrobial Peptides in Salmonella typhimurium. 	Salmonella Skp mutant proteomics	AcrB, S-trap, Salmonella typhimurium	Bacterial resistance to antibiotics is a major concern worldwide, leading to an extensive search for alternative drugs. Promising candidates are antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), innate immunity molecules, shown to be highly efficient against multidrug resistant bacteria. Therefore, it is essential to study bacterial resistance mechanisms against them. For that purpose, we used experimental evolution, and isolated a Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium-resistant line to the AMP 4DK5L7. This AMP displayed promising features including widespread activity against Gram-negative bacteria and protection from proteolytic degradation. However, the resistance that evolved in the isolated strain was particularly high. Whole genome sequencing revealed that five spontaneous mutations had evolved. Of these, three are novel in the context of acquired AMP resistance. Two mutations are related to the AcrAB-TolC multidrug efflux pump. One occurred in AcrB, the substrate-binding domain of the system, and the second in RamR, a transcriptional regulator of the system. Together, the mutations increased the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) by twofold toward this AMP. Moreover, the mutation in AcrB induced hypersusceptibility toward ampicillin and colistin. The last mutation occurred in Skp, a periplasmic chaperone that participates in the biogenesis of outer membrane proteins (OMPs). This mutation increased the MIC by twofold to 4DK5L7 and by fourfold to another AMP, seg5D. Proteomic analysis revealed that the mutation abolished Skp expression, reduced OMP abundance, and increased DegP levels. DegP, a protease that was reported to have an additional chaperone activity, escorts OMPs through the periplasm along with Skp, but is also associated with AMP resistance. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that both loss of Skp and manipulation of the AcrAB-TolC system are alternative strategies of AMP acquired resistance in Salmonella typhimurium and might represent a common mechanism in other Gram-negative bacteria.
PXD013041	32210939	Synonymous Mutations in rpsT Lead to Ribosomal Assembly Defects That Can Be Compensated by Mutations in fis and rpoA. 	Study of the Salmonella enterica strains using the TMT-based proteomics	LC-MS, Salmonella enterica, TMT, bacteria, tandem mass tag	We previously described how four deleterious synonymous mutations in the Salmonella enterica rpsT gene (encoding ribosomal protein S20) result in low S20 levels that can be compensated by mutations that restore [S20]. Here, we have further studied the cause for the deleterious effects of S20 deficiency and found that the S20 mutants were also deficient in four other 30S proteins (S1, S2, S12, and S21), which is likely due to an assembly defect of the S20 deficient 30S subunits. We examined the compensatory effect by six additional mutations affecting the global regulator Fis and the C-terminal domain of the alpha subunit of RNA polymerase (encoded by rpoA). The fis and rpoA mutations restored the S20 levels, concomitantly restoring the assembly defect and the levels of S1, S2, S12, and S21. These results illustrate the complexity of compensatory evolution and how the negative effects of deleterious mutations can be suppressed by a multitude of mechanisms. Additionally, we found that the mutations in fis and rpoA caused reduced expression of other ribosomal components. Notably, some of the fis mutations and the rpoA mutation corrected the fitness of the rpsT mutants to wild-type levels, although expression of other ribosomal components was reduced compared to wild-type. This finding raises new questions regarding the relation between translation capacity and growth rate.
PXD014752	32211455	In utero and lactational 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure exacerbates urinary dysfunction in hormone-treated C57BL/6J mice through a non-malignant mechanism involving proteomic changes in the prostate that differ from those elicited by testosterone and estradiol. 	In utero and lactational TCDD exacerbates the effects of hormone treatment in a model of lower urinary tract dysfunction	Prostate, TCDD, urinary tract	A recent study directed new focus on the fetal and neonatal environment as a risk factor for urinary dysfunction in aging males. Male mice were exposed in utero and via lactation (IUL) to the persistent environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and then administered slow-release, subcutaneous implants of testosterone and estradiol (T+E2) as adults to mimic the hormonal environment of aging men. IUL TCDD exposure worsened T+E2-induced voiding dysfunction. Mice in the previous study were genetically prone to prostatic neoplasia and it was therefore unclear whether TCDD exacerbates voiding dysfunction through a malignant or non-malignant mechanism. We demonstrate here that IUL TCDD exposure acts via a non-malignant mechanism to exacerbate T+E2-mediated male mouse voiding dysfunction characterized by a progressive increase in spontaneous void spotting. We deployed a proteomic approach to narrow the possible mechanisms. We specifically tested whether IUL TCDD exacerbates urinary dysfunction by acting through the same prostatic signaling pathways as T+E2. The prostatic protein signature of TCDD/T+E2-exposed mice differed from that of mice exposed to T+E2 alone, indicating that the mechanism of action of TCDD differs from that of T+E2. We identified 3641 prostatic proteins in total and determined that IUL TCDD exposure significantly changed the abundance of 102 proteins linked to diverse molecular and physiological processes. We shed new light on the mechanism of IUL TCDD-mediated voiding dysfunction by demonstrating that the mechanism is independent of tumorigenesis and involves molecular pathways distinct from those affected by T+E2.
PXD015582	32217665	The rRNA m(6)A methyltransferase METTL5 is involved in pluripotency and developmental programs. 	Methyltransferase METTL5 interactome	HeLa, RNA methyltranferase, interactome	Covalent chemical modifications of cellular RNAs directly impact all biological processes. However, our mechanistic understanding of the enzymes catalyzing these modifications, their substrates and biological functions, remains vague. Amongst RNA modifications N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is widespread and found in messenger (mRNA), ribosomal (rRNA), and noncoding RNAs. Here, we undertook a systematic screen to uncover new RNA methyltransferases. We demonstrate that the methyltransferase-like 5 (METTL5) protein catalyzes m(6)A in 18S rRNA at position A1832 We report that absence of Mettl5 in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) results in a decrease in global translation rate, spontaneous loss of pluripotency, and compromised differentiation potential. METTL5-deficient mice are born at non-Mendelian rates and develop morphological and behavioral abnormalities. Importantly, mice lacking METTL5 recapitulate symptoms of patients with DNA variants in METTL5, thereby providing a new mouse disease model. Overall, our biochemical, molecular, and in vivo characterization highlights the importance of m(6)A in rRNA in stemness, differentiation, development, and diseases.
PXD015924	32218997	CD4(+) Th immunogenicity of the Ascaris spp. secreted products. 	CD4+ Th immunogenicity of Ascaris spp.	CD4+ T cell epitope/ immunodominance/ Immunogenicity/ MHCII antigen presentation/ Ascaris spp./ Pathogen	Ascaris spp. is a major health problem of humans and animals alike, and understanding the immunogenicity of its antigens is required for developing urgently needed vaccines. The parasite-secreted products represent the most relevant, yet complex (>250 proteins) antigens of Ascaris spp. as defining the pathogen-host interplay. We applied an in vitro antigen processing system coupled to quantitative proteomics to identify potential CD4(+) Th cell epitopes in Ascaris-secreted products. This approach considerably restricts the theoretical list of epitopes using conventional CD4(+) Th cell epitope prediction tools. We demonstrate the specificity and utility of our approach on two sets of candidate lists, allowing us identifying hits excluded by either one or both computational methods. More importantly, one of the candidates identified experimentally, clearly demonstrates the presence of pathogen-reactive T cells in healthy human individuals against these antigens. Thus, our work pipeline identifies the first human T cell epitope against Ascaris spp. and represents an easily adaptable platform for characterization of complex antigens, in particular for those pathogens that are not easily amenable for in vivo experimental validation.
PXD015719	32219907	PKA-independent vasopressin signaling in renal collecting duct. 	PKA-Independent Vasopressin Signaling in Renal Collecting Duct	AMPK, PRM-MS, Phosphoproteomics, SILAC, mpkCCD	Vasopressin regulates renal water excretion by binding to a Galpha s-coupled receptor (V2R) in collecting duct cells, resulting in increased water permeability through regulation of the aquaporin-2 (AQP2) water channel. This action is widely accepted to be associated with cAMP-mediated activation of protein kinase A (PKA). Here, we use phosphoproteomics in collecting duct cells in which PKA has been deleted (CRISPR-Cas9) to identify PKA-independent responses to vasopressin. The results show that V2R-mediated vasopressin signaling is predominantly, but not entirely, PKA-dependent. Upregulated sites in PKA-null cells include Ser256 of AQP2, which is critical to regulation of AQP2 trafficking. In addition, phosphorylation changes in the protein kinases Stk39 (SPAK) and Prkci (an atypical PKC) are consistent with PKA-independent regulation of these protein kinases. Target motif analysis of the phosphopeptides increased in PKA-null cells indicates that vasopressin activates one or more members of the AMPK/SNF1-subfamily of basophilic protein kinases. In vitro phosphorylation assays using recombinant, purified SNF1-subfamily kinases confirmed postulated target specificities. Of interest, measured IBMX-dependent cAMP levels were an order of magnitude higher in PKA-null than in PKA-intact cells, indicative of a PKA-dependent feedback mechanism. Overall, the findings support the conclusion that V2-receptor mediated signaling in collecting duct cells is in part PKA-independent.
PXD017317	32220335	Polypharmacological Perturbation of the 14-3-3 Adaptor Protein Interactome Stimulates Neurite Outgrowth. 	Polypharmacological perturbation of the 14-3-3 adaptor protein interactome stimulates neurite outgrowth	14-3-3, Polypharmacology, Rap1, axon, regeneration	Targeting protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is a promising approach in the development of drugs for many indications. 14-3-3 proteins are a family of phosphoprotein-binding molecules with critical functions in dozens of cell signaling networks. 14-3-3s are abundant in the central nervous system, and the small molecule fusicoccin-A (FC-A), a tool compound that can be used to manipulate 14-3-3 PPIs, enhances neurite outgrowth in cultured neurons. New semisynthetic FC-A derivatives with improved binding affinity for 14-3-3 complexes have recently been developed. Here, we use a series of screens that identify these compounds as potent inducers of neurite outgrowth through a polypharmacological mechanism. Using proteomics and X-ray crystallography, we discover that these compounds extensively regulate the 14-3-3 interactome by stabilizing specific PPIs, while disrupting others. These results provide new insights into the development of drugs to target 14-3-3 PPIs, a potential therapeutic strategy for CNS diseases.
PXD016166	32223133	Interplay of Ubiquitin-Like Modifiers Following Arsenic Trioxide Treatment. 	Elevated Levels of Arsenic Trioxide Promote Divergent SUMOylation	Arsenic trioxide, Caspase, LC-MS, PARP1, Phosphoproteomics., Post-translational modifications, SUMOylation	Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is a therapeutic agent used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), a disease caused by a chromosomal translocation of the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha) gene that can occur reciprocally with the promyelocytic leukemia (PML) gene. The mechanisms through which ATO exerts its effects on cells are not fully characterized though they involve the SUMOylation, the ubiquitylation, and the degradation of the PML/RARalpha oncoprotein through the PML moiety. To better understand the mechanisms that underlie the cytotoxicity induced with increasing ATO levels, we profiled the changes in protein SUMOylation, phosphorylation, and ubiquitylation on HEK293 cells following exposure to low (1 muM) or elevated (10 muM) ATO for 4 h. Our analyses revealed that a low dose of ATO resulted in the differential modification of selected substrates including the SUMOylation (K380, K394, K490, and K497) and ubiquitylation (K337, K401) of PML. These experiments also highlighted a number of unexpected SUMOylated substrates involved in DNA damage response (e.g., PCNA, YY1, and poly[ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 (PARP1)) and messenger RNA (mRNA) splicing (e.g., ACIN1, USP39, and SART1) that were regulated at higher ATO concentrations. Interestingly, additional enzymatic assays revealed that SUMOylation of PARP1 impeded its proteolytic cleavage by caspase-3, suggesting that SUMOylation could have a protective role in delaying cell apoptosis.
PXD018208	32223173	Relative Retention Time Estimation Improves N-Glycopeptide Identifications by LC-MS/MS. 	Glycopeptide Relative Retention Time Prediction	Glycoproteomics	Glycopeptides identified by tandem mass spectrometry rely on the identification of the peptide backbone sequence and the attached glycan(s) by the incomplete fragmentation of both moieties. This may lead to ambiguous identifications where multiple structures could explain the same spectrum equally well due to missing information in the mass spectrum or incorrect precursor mass determination. To date, approaches to solving these problems have been limited, and few inroads have been made to address these issues. We present a technique to address some of these challenges and demonstrate it on previously published data sets. We use a linear modeling approach to learn the influence of the glycan composition on the retention time of a glycopeptide and use these models to validate glycopeptides within the same experiment, detecting over 400 incorrect cases during the MS/MS search and correcting 75 cases that could not be identified based on mass alone. We make this technique available as a command line executable program, written in Python and C, freely available at https://github.com/mobiusklein/glycresoft in source form, with precompiled binaries for Windows.
PXD018043	32223200	Enhancing Top-Down Proteomics Data Analysis by Combining Deconvolution Results through a Machine Learning Strategy. 	Enhancing Top-Down Proteomics Data Analysis by Combining Deconvolution Results through a Machine Learning Strategy	Top-down spectra deconvolution	Top-down mass spectrometry (MS) is a powerful tool for the identification and comprehensive characterization of proteoforms arising from alternative splicing, sequence variation, and post-translational modifications. However, the complex data set generated from top-down MS experiments requires multiple sequential data processing steps to successfully interpret the data for identifying and characterizing proteoforms. One critical step is the deconvolution of the complex isotopic distribution that arises from naturally occurring isotopes. Multiple algorithms are currently available to deconvolute top-down mass spectra, resulting in different deconvoluted peak lists with varied accuracy compared to true positive annotations. In this study, we have designed a machine learning strategy that can process and combine the peak lists from different deconvolution results. By optimizing clustering results, deconvolution results from THRASH, TopFD, MS-Deconv, and SNAP algorithms were combined into consensus peak lists at various thresholds using either a simple voting ensemble method or a random forest machine learning algorithm. For the random forest algorithm, which had better predictive performance, the consensus peak lists on average could achieve a recall value (true positive rate) of 0.60 and a precision value (positive predictive value) of 0.78. It outperforms the single best algorithm, which achieved a recall value of only 0.47 and a precision value of 0.58. This machine learning strategy enhanced the accuracy and confidence in protein identification during database searches by accelerating the detection of true positive peaks while filtering out false positive peaks. Thus, this method shows promise in enhancing proteoform identification and characterization for high-throughput data analysis in top-down proteomics.
PXD015647	32224433	Surface LSP-1 Is a Phenotypic Marker Distinguishing Human Classical versus Monocyte-Derived Dendritic Cells. 	VHH D4 target identification by Mass Spectrometry	Dendritic Cell	Human mononuclear phagocytes comprise several subsets of dendritic cells (DCs), monocytes, and macrophages. Distinguishing one population from another is challenging, especially in inflamed tissues, owing to the promiscuous expression of phenotypic markers. Using a synthetic library of humanized llama single domain antibodies, we identified a novel surface marker for human naturally occurring monocyte-derived DCs. Our antibody targets an extra-cellular domain of LSP-1, specifically on monocyte-derived DCs, but not on other leukocytes, in particular monocytes, macrophages, classical DCs, or the recently described blood DC3 population. Our findings will pave the way for a better characterization of human mononuclear phagocytes in pathological settings.
PXD015254	32225059	Exposure of Aspergillus fumigatus to Atorvastatin Leads to Altered Membrane Permeability and Induction of an Oxidative Stress Response. 	Analysis of the effect of atorvastatin on the growth of Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus fumigatus, atorvastatin, ergosterol, gliotoxin	Aspergillus fumigatus is a serious cause of disease in immune-deficient patients and in those with pulmonary malfunction (e.g., cystic fibrosis (CF), asthma). Atorvastatin is a member of the statin drug family, which are the main therapeutic agents used to decrease high serum cholesterol levels by inhibiting (HMG-CoA) reductase enzyme. The aim of the work presented here was to analyse the antifungal activity of atorvastatin and assess its effect on the virulence of A. fumigatus. Atorvastatin demonstrated strong antifungal activity and reduced the growth and viability of A. fumigatus. Exposure of A. fumigatus to atorvastatin led to a reduction in ergosterol content and increased membrane permeability, as evidenced by the release of protein, amino acids and gliotoxin. Proteomic analysis revealed an increased abundance of proteins associated with an oxidative stress response, such as the glutathione s-transferase family protein (+8.43-fold), heat shock protein Hsp30/Hsp42 (+2.02-fold) and 5-demethoxyubiquinone hydroxylase, mitochondrial (+1.73-fold), as well as secondary metabolites such as isocyanide synthase A icsA (+8.52-fold) and non-ribosomal peptide synthetase fmpE (+3.06-fold). The results presented here indicate that atorvastatin has strong antifungal properties and may have potential application in the treatment of A. fumigatus infections alone or in combination with existing antifungal agents.
PXD015959	32226849	Analysis of the Extracellular Proteome of Colistin-Resistant Korean Acinetobacter baumannii Strains. 	Secretome of Acinetobacter baumannii KAB strains	Acinetobacter baumannii, MRAB, secretome	We analyzed the extracellular proteome of colistin-resistant Korean Acinetobacter baumannii (KAB) strains to identify proteome profiles that can be used to characterize extensively drug-resistant KAB strains. Four colistin-resistant KAB strains with colistin resistance associated with point mutations in pmrB and pmrC genes were analyzed. Analysis of the extracellular proteome of these strains revealed the presence of 506 induced common proteins, which were hence considered as the core extracellular proteome. Class C ADC-30 and class D OXA-23 beta-lactamases were abundantly induced in these strains. Porins (CarO and CarO-like porin), outer membrane proteins (OmpH and BamABDE), transport protein (AdeK), receptor (TonB), and several proteins of unknown function were among the specifically induced proteins. Based on the sequence homology analysis of proteins from the core proteome and those of other A. baumannii strains and pathogenic bacterial species as well as further in silico screening, we propose that CarO-like porin is an A. baumannii-specific protein and that two tryptic peptides that originate from CarO-like porin detected by tandem mass spectrometry are peptide makers of this protein.
PXD015842	32227509	Grad-seq in a Gram-positive bacterium reveals exonucleolytic sRNA activation in competence control. 	A census of RNA/protein complexes in a model Gram-positive bacterium reveals exonuclease-mediated sRNA activation in competence regulation	Cbf1, Grad-seq, Streptococcus pneumoniae, csRNA	RNA-protein interactions are the crucial basis for many steps of bacterial gene expression, including post-transcriptional control by small regulatory RNAs (sRNAs). In stark contrast to recent progress in the analysis of Gram-negative bacteria, knowledge about RNA-protein complexes in Gram-positive species remains scarce. Here, we used the Grad-seq approach to draft a comprehensive landscape of such complexes in Streptococcus pneumoniae, in total determining the sedimentation profiles of ~ 88% of the transcripts and ~ 62% of the proteins of this important human pathogen. Analysis of in-gradient distributions and subsequent tag-based protein capture identified interactions of the exoribonuclease Cbf1/YhaM with sRNAs that control bacterial competence for DNA uptake. Unexpectedly, the nucleolytic activity of Cbf1 stabilizes these sRNAs, thereby promoting their function as repressors of competence. Overall, these results provide the first RNA/protein complexome resource of a Gram-positive species and illustrate how this can be utilized to identify new molecular factors with functions in RNA-based regulation of virulence-relevant pathways.
PXD017069	32227958	Optimization of Synovial Fluid Collection and Processing for NMR Metabolomics and LC-MS/MS Proteomics. 	Optimisation of Synovial Fluid Collection and Processing for NMR Metabolomics and LC-MS/MS Proteomics	Lys-C Endopeptidase, Metabolomics, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Synovial Fluid	Synovial fluid (SF) is of great interest for the investigation of orthopedic pathologies, as it is in close proximity to various tissues that are primarily altered during these disease processes and can be collected using minimally invasive protocols. Multi-"omic" approaches are commonplace, although little consideration is often given for multiple analysis techniques at sample collection. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolomics and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) proteomics are two complementary techniques particularly suited to the study of SF. However, currently there are no agreed upon standard protocols that are published for SF collection and processing for use with NMR metabolomic analysis. Furthermore, the large protein concentration dynamic range present within SF can mask the detection of lower abundance proteins in proteomics. While combinational ligand libraries (ProteoMiner columns) have been developed to reduce this dynamic range, their reproducibility when used in conjunction with SF, or on-bead protein digestion protocols, has yet to be investigated. Here we employ optimized protocols for the collection, processing, and storage of SF for NMR metabolite analysis and LC-MS/MS proteome analysis, including a Lys-C endopeptidase digestion step prior to tryptic digestion, which increased the number of protein identifications and improved reproducibility for on-bead ProteoMiner digestion.
PXD017149	32228647	Integrative -omics and HLA-ligandomics analysis to identify novel drug targets for ccRCC immunotherapy. 	Integrative -omics and HLA-ligandomics analysis to identify novel drug targets for ccRCC immunotherapy	HLA peptidomie, cancer vaccine, ccRCC, immunotherapy, kidney cancer, ligandomics, peptide vaccine, renal cell carcinoma	BACKGROUND: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the dominant subtype of renal cancer. With currently available therapies, cure of advanced and metastatic ccRCC is achieved only in rare cases. Here, we developed a workflow integrating different -omics technologies to identify ccRCC-specific HLA-presented peptides as potential drug targets for ccRCC immunotherapy. METHODS: We analyzed HLA-presented peptides by MS-based ligandomics of 55 ccRCC tumors (cohort 1), paired non-tumor renal tissues, and 158 benign tissues from other organs. Pathways enriched in ccRCC compared to its cell type of origin were identified by transcriptome and gene set enrichment analyses in 51 tumor tissues of the same cohort. To retrieve a list of candidate targets with involvement in ccRCC pathogenesis, ccRCC-specific pathway genes were intersected with the source genes of tumor-exclusive peptides. The candidates were validated in an independent cohort from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA KIRC, n = 452). DNA methylation (TCGA KIRC, n = 273), somatic mutations (TCGA KIRC, n = 392), and gene ontology (GO) and correlations with tumor metabolites (cohort 1, n = 30) and immune-oncological markers (cohort 1, n = 37) were analyzed to characterize regulatory and functional involvements. CD8(+) T cell priming assays were used to identify immunogenic peptides. The candidate gene EGLN3 was functionally investigated in cell culture. RESULTS: A total of 34,226 HLA class I- and 19,325 class II-presented peptides were identified in ccRCC tissue, of which 443 class I and 203 class II peptides were ccRCC-specific and presented in >= 3 tumors. One hundred eighty-five of the 499 corresponding source genes were involved in pathways activated by ccRCC tumors. After validation in the independent cohort from TCGA, 113 final candidate genes remained. Candidates were involved in extracellular matrix organization, hypoxic signaling, immune processes, and others. Nine of the 12 peptides assessed by immunogenicity analysis were able to activate naive CD8(+) T cells, including peptides derived from EGLN3. Functional analysis of EGLN3 revealed possible tumor-promoting functions. CONCLUSIONS: Integration of HLA ligandomics, transcriptomics, genetic, and epigenetic data leads to the identification of novel functionally relevant therapeutic targets for ccRCC immunotherapy. Validation of the identified targets is recommended to expand the treatment landscape of ccRCC.
PXD014051	32229226	Molecular profile of the rat peri-infarct region four days after stroke: Study with MANF. 	Molecular characterization of the brain peri-infarct region after post-stroke MANF administration	MANF, multiomics, stroke	The peri-infarct region after ischemic stroke is the anatomical location for many of the endogenous recovery processes; however, -the molecular events in the peri-infarct region remain poorly characterized. In this study, we examine the molecular profile of the peri-infarct region on post-stroke day four, a time when reparative processes are ongoing. We used a multiomics approach, involving RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics and metabolomics to characterize molecular changes in the peri-infarct region. We also took advantage of our previously developed method to express transgenes in the peri-infarct region where self-complementary adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors were injected into the brain parenchyma on post-stroke day 2. We have previously used this method to show that mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) enhances functional recovery from stroke and recruits phagocytic cells to the peri-infarct region. Here, we first analyzed the effects of stroke to the peri-infarct region on post-stroke day 4 in comparison to sham-operated animals, finding that strokeinduced changes in 3345 transcripts, 341 proteins, and 88 metabolites. We found that after stroke, genes related to inflammation, proliferation, apoptosis, and regeneration were upregulated, whereas genes encoding neuroactive ligand receptors and calcium-binding proteins were downregulated. In proteomics, we detected upregulation of proteins related to protein synthesis and downregulation of neuronal proteins. Metabolomic studies indicated that in after stroke tissue there is an increase in saccharides, sugar phosphates, ceramides and free fatty acids and a decrease of adenine, hypoxantine, adenosine and guanosine. We then compared the effects of post-stroke delivery of AAV1-MANF to AAV1-eGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein). MANF administration increased the expression of 77 genes, most of which were related to immune response. In proteomics, MANF administration reduced S100A8 and S100A9 protein levels. In metabolomics, no significant differences between MANF and eGFP treatment were detected, but relative to sham surgery group, most of the changes in lipids were significant in the AAV-eGFP group only. This work describes the molecular profile of the peri-infarct region during recovery from ischemic stroke, and establishes a resource for further stroke studies. These results provide further support for parenchymal MANF as a modulator of phagocytic function.
PXD015585	32229607	Chlamydomonas sp. UWO 241 Exhibits High Cyclic Electron Flow and Rewired Metabolism under High Salinity. 	The Antarctic Chlamydomonas sp. UWO241 exhibits constitutively high cyclic electron flow	cyclic electron flow, photosynthesis	The Antarctic green alga Chlamydomonas sp. UWO 241 (UWO 241) is adapted to permanent low temperatures, hypersalinity, and extreme shade. One of the most striking phenotypes of UWO 241 is an altered PSI organization and constitutive PSI cyclic electron flow (CEF). To date, little attention has been paid to CEF during long-term stress acclimation, and the consequences of sustained CEF in UWO 241 are not known. In this study, we combined photobiology, proteomics, and metabolomics to understand the underlying role of sustained CEF in high-salinity stress acclimation. High salt-grown UWO 241 exhibited increased thylakoid proton motive flux and an increased capacity for nonphotochemical quenching. Under high salt, a significant proportion of the up-regulated enzymes were associated with the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle, carbon storage metabolism, and protein translation. Two key enzymes of the shikimate pathway, 3-deoxy-d-arabinoheptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase and chorismate synthase, were also up-regulated, as well as indole-3-glycerol phosphate synthase, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of l-Trp and indole acetic acid. In addition, several compatible solutes (glycerol, Pro, and Suc) accumulated to high levels in high salt-grown UWO 241 cultures. We suggest that UWO 241 maintains constitutively high CEF through the associated PSI-cytochrome b 6 f supercomplex to support robust growth and strong photosynthetic capacity under a constant growth regime of low temperatures and high salinity.
PXD017583	32230932	Sugar Beet (Beta vulgaris) Guard Cells Responses to Salinity Stress: A Proteomic Analysis. 	Effect of salinity on the proteome profile of guard cells from the salt-tolerant plant species Beta vulgaris (sugar beet)	Guard Cells, Salinity stress, Stomata	Soil salinity is a major environmental constraint affecting crop growth and threatening global food security. Plants adapt to salinity by optimizing the performance of stomata. Stomata are formed by two guard cells (GCs) that are morphologically and functionally distinct from the other leaf cells. These microscopic sphincters inserted into the wax-covered epidermis of the shoot balance CO2 intake for photosynthetic carbon gain and concomitant water loss. In order to better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying stomatal function under saline conditions, we used proteomics approach to study isolated GCs from the salt-tolerant sugar beet species. Of the 2088 proteins identified in sugar beet GCs, 82 were differentially regulated by salt treatment. According to bioinformatics analysis (GO enrichment analysis and protein classification), these proteins were involved in lipid metabolism, cell wall modification, ATP biosynthesis, and signaling. Among the significant differentially abundant proteins, several proteins classified as "stress proteins" were upregulated, including non-specific lipid transfer protein, chaperone proteins, heat shock proteins, inorganic pyrophosphatase 2, responsible for energized vacuole membrane for ion transportation. Moreover, several antioxidant enzymes (peroxide, superoxidase dismutase) were highly upregulated. Furthermore, cell wall proteins detected in GCs provided some evidence that GC walls were more flexible in response to salt stress. Proteins such as L-ascorbate oxidase that were constitutively high under both control and high salinity conditions may contribute to the ability of sugar beet GCs to adapt to salinity by mitigating salinity-induced oxidative stress.
PXD017827	32231136	Proteome Analysis in a Mammalian Cell line Reveals that PLK2 is Involved in Avian Metapneumovirus Type C (aMPV/C)-Induced Apoptosis. 	Proteome Analysis of Avian Metapneumovirus C Type infected Vero cells by iTRAQ coupled with LC-MS	LC-MS, Vero cells, aMPV/C	Avian metapneumovirus subtype C (aMPV/C) causes an acute respiratory disease that has caused serious economic losses in the Chinese poultry industry. In the present study, we first explored the protein profile in aMPV/C-infected Vero cells using iTRAQ quantitative proteomics. A total of 921 of 7034 proteins were identified as significantly altered by aMPV/C infection. Three selected proteins were confirmed by Western blot analysis. Bioinformatics GO analysis revealed multiple signaling pathways involving cell cycle, endocytosis, and PI3K-Akt, mTOR, MAPK and p53 signaling pathways, which might participate in viral infection. In this analysis, we found that PLK2 expression was upregulated by aMPV/C infection and investigated whether it contributed to aMPV/C-mediated cellular dysfunction. Suppressing PLK2 attenuated aMPV/C-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and p53-dependent apoptosis and reduced virus release. These results in a mammalian cell line suggest that high PLK2 expression correlates with aMPV/C-induced apoptosis and viral replication, providing new insight into the potential avian host cellular response to aMPV/C infection and antiviral targets.
PXD014433	32231306	RNA helicase DDX21 mediates nucleotide stress responses in neural crest and melanoma cells. 	RNA helicase DDX21 mediates nucleotide stress responses	A375, DDX21, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), RNA	The availability of nucleotides has a direct impact on transcription. The inhibition of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) with leflunomide impacts nucleotide pools by reducing pyrimidine levels. Leflunomide abrogates the effective transcription elongation of genes required for neural crest development and melanoma growth in vivo(1). To define the mechanism of action, we undertook an in vivo chemical suppressor screen for restoration of neural crest after leflunomide treatment. Surprisingly, we found that alterations in progesterone and progesterone receptor (Pgr) signalling strongly suppressed leflunomide-mediated neural crest effects in zebrafish. In addition, progesterone bypasses the transcriptional elongation block resulting from Paf complex deficiency, rescuing neural crest defects in ctr9 morphant and paf1(aln(z24)) mutant embryos. Using proteomics, we found that Pgr binds the RNA helicase protein Ddx21. ddx21-deficient zebrafish show resistance to leflunomide-induced stress. At a molecular level, nucleotide depletion reduced the chromatin occupancy of DDX21 in human A375 melanoma cells. Nucleotide supplementation reversed the gene expression signature and DDX21 occupancy changes prompted by leflunomide. Together, our results show that DDX21 acts as a sensor and mediator of transcription during nucleotide stress.
PXD016803	32231562	Proteomics-Based Characterization of miR-574-5p Decoy to CUGBP1 Suggests Specificity for mPGES-1 Regulation in Human Lung Cancer Cells. 	Global characterization of miR-574-5p decoy to CUGBP1 in human lung cancer using a mass spectrometry proteomics approach	CUGBP1, lung cancer, mPGES-1, miR-574-5p	MicroRNAs (miRs) are one of the most important post-transcriptional repressors of gene expression. However, miR-574-5p has recently been shown to positively regulate the expression of microsomal prostaglandin E-synthase-1 (mPGES-1), a key enzyme in the prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) biosynthesis, by acting as decoy to the RNA-binding protein CUG-RNA binding protein 1 (CUGBP1) in human lung cancer. miR-574-5p exhibits oncogenic properties and promotes lung tumor growth in vivo via induction of mPGES-1-derived PGE2 synthesis. In a mass spectrometry-based proteomics study, we now attempted to characterize this decoy mechanism in A549 lung cancer cells at a cellular level. Besides the identification of novel CUGBP1 targets, we identified that the interaction between miR-574-5p and CUGBP1 specifically regulates mPGES-1 expression. This is supported by the fact that CUGBP1 and miR-574-5p are located in the nucleus, where CUGBP1 regulates alternative splicing. Further, in a bioinformatical approach we showed that the decoy-dependent mPGES-1 splicing pattern is unique. The specificity of miR-574-5p/CUGBP1 regulation on mPGES-1 expression supports the therapeutic strategy of pharmacological inhibition of PGE2 formation, which may provide significant therapeutic value for NSCLC patients with high miR-574-5p levels.
PXD014894	32231660	Natural-Killer-Derived Extracellular Vesicles: Immune Sensors and Interactors. 	Proteomic analysis of NK cell-derived extracellular vesicles.	proteomics natural killer cells exosomes microvesicles	Natural killer (NK) cells contribute to immunosurveillance and first-line defense in the control of tumor growth and metastasis diffusion. NK-cell-derived extracellular vesicles (NKEVs) are constitutively secreted and biologically active. They reflect the protein and genetic repertoire of originating cells, and exert antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo. Cancer can compromise NK cell functions, a status potentially reflected by their extracellular vesicles. Hence, NKEVs could, on the one hand, contribute to improve cancer therapy by interacting with tumor and/or immune cells and on the other hand, sense the actual NK cell status in cancer patients. Here, we investigated the composition of healthy donors' NKEVs, including NK microvesicles and exosomes, and their interaction with uncompromised cells of the immune system. To sense the systemic NK cell status in cancer patients, we developed an immune enzymatic test (NKExoELISA) that measures plasma NK-cell-derived exosomes, captured as tsg101(+)CD56(+) nanovesicles. NKEV mass spectrometry and cytokine analysis showed the expression of NK cell markers, i.e., NKG2D and CD94, perforin, granzymes, CD40L, and other molecules involved in cytotoxicity, homing, cell adhesion, and immune activation, together with EV markers tsg101, CD81, CD63, and CD9 in both NK-derived exosomes and microvesicles. Data are available via Proteome Xchange with identifier PXD014894. Immunomodulation studies revealed that NKEVs displayed main stimulatory functions in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), inducing the expression of human leukocyte antigen DR isotype (HLA-DR) and costimulatory molecules on monocytes and CD25 expression on T cells, which was maintained in the presence of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interleukin (IL)-10/transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta), respectively. Furthermore, NKEVs increased the CD56(+) NK cell fraction, suggesting that effects mediated by NKEVs might be potentially exploited in support of cancer therapy. The measurement of circulating NK exosomes in the plasma of melanoma patients and healthy donors evidenced lower levels of tsg101(+)CD56(+) exosomes in patients with respect to donors. Likewise, we detected lower frequencies of NK cells in PBMCs of these patients. These data highlight the potential of NKExoELISA to sense alterations of the NK cell immune status.
PXD018165	32233093	Ethynylation of Cysteine Residues: From Peptides to Proteins in Vitro and in Living Cells. 	Ethynylation of Cysteines from Peptides to Proteins in Living Cells	HeLa, QExactive HF-X, cysteine ethynylation	Current approaches to introduce terminal alkynes for bioorthogonal reactions into biomolecules still present limitations in terms of either reactivity, selectivity, or adduct stability. We present a method for the ethynylation of cysteine residues based on the use of ethynylbenziodoxolone (EBX) reagents. The acetylene group is directly introduced onto the thiol group of cysteine and can be used for copper-catalyzed alkyne-azide cycloaddition (CuAAC) without further processing. Labeling proceeded with reaction rates comparable to or higher than the most often used iodoacetamide on peptides or maleimide on the antibody trastuzumab, and high cysteine selectivity was observed. The reagents were also used in living cells for cysteine proteomic profiling and displayed improved coverage of the cysteinome compared to previously reported iodoacetamide or hypervalent iodine reagents. Fine-tuning of the EBX reagents allows optimization of their reactivity and physical properties.
PXD017884	32234390	MitoPlex: A targeted multiple reaction monitoring assay for quantification of a curated set of mitochondrial proteins. 	MitoPlex: A Targeted Multiple Reaction Monitoring Assay for Quantification of a Curated Set of Mitochondrial Proteins	MRM, Mitoplex, metabolomics, mitochondrial function, statin myopathy, striated muscle	Mitochondria are the major source of cellular energy (ATP), as well as critical mediators of widespread functions such as cellular redox balance, apoptosis, and metabolic flux. The organelles play an especially important role in the maintenance of cardiac homeostasis; their inability to generate ATP following impairment due to ischemic damage has been directly linked to organ failure. Methods to quantify mitochondrial content are limited to low throughput immunoassays, measurement of mitochondrial DNA, or relative quantification by untargeted mass spectrometry. Here, we present a high throughput, reproducible and quantitative mass spectrometry multiple reaction monitoring based assay of 37 proteins critical to central carbon chain metabolism and overall mitochondrial function termed 'MitoPlex'. We coupled this protein multiplex with a parallel analysis of the central carbon chain metabolites (219 metabolite assay) extracted in tandem from the same sample, be it cells or tissue. In tests of its biological applicability in cells and tissues, "MitoPlex plus metabolites" indicated profound effects of HMG-CoA Reductase inhibition (e.g., statin treatment) on mitochondria of i) differentiating C2C12 skeletal myoblasts, as well as a clear opposite trend of statins to promote mitochondrial protein expression and metabolism in heart and liver, while suppressing mitochondrial protein and ii) aspects of metabolism in the skeletal muscle obtained from C57Bl6 mice. Our results not only reveal new insights into the metabolic effect of statins in skeletal muscle, but present a new high throughput, reliable MS-based tool to study mitochondrial dynamics in both cell culture and in vivo models.
PXD014742	32234471	Structure and Function of an Elongation Factor P Subfamily in Actinobacteria. 	Proteome analysis of Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 efp	Actinobacteria, Corynebacterium glutamicum, EF-P, Elongation factor P	Translation of consecutive proline motifs causes ribosome stalling and requires rescue via the action of a specific translation elongation factor, EF-P in bacteria and archaeal/eukaryotic a/eIF5A. In Eukarya, Archaea, and all bacteria investigated so far, the functionality of this translation elongation factor depends on specific and rather unusual post-translational modifications. The phylum Actinobacteria, which includes the genera Corynebacterium, Mycobacterium, and Streptomyces, is of both medical and economic significance. Here, we report that EF-P is required in these bacteria in particular for the translation of proteins involved in amino acid and secondary metabolite production. Notably, EF-P of Actinobacteria species does not need any post-translational modification for activation. While the function and overall 3D structure of this EF-P type is conserved, the loop containing the conserved lysine is flanked by two essential prolines that rigidify it. Actinobacteria's EF-P represents a unique subfamily that works without any modification.
PXD017224	32234474	SFTSV Infection Induces BAK/BAX-Dependent Mitochondrial DNA Release to Trigger NLRP3 Inflammasome Activation. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of SFTSV infected THP-1 cells	SFTSV, THP-1 cells, quantitative proteomics	Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) virus (SFTSV) is an emerging tick-borne virus that carries a high fatality rate of 12%-50%. In-depth understanding of the SFTSV-induced pathogenesis mechanism is critical for developing effective anti-SFTS therapeutics. Here, we report transcriptomic analysis of blood samples from SFTS patients. We observe a strong correlation between inflammatory responses and disease progression and fatal outcome. Quantitative proteomic analysis of SFTSV infection confirms the induction of inflammation and further reveals virus-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Mechanistically, SFTSV infection triggers BCL2 antagonist/killer 1 (BAK) upregulation and BAK/BCL2-associated X (BAX) activation, leading to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) oxidization and subsequent cytosolic release. The cytosolic mtDNA binds and triggers NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Notably, the BAK expression level correlates with SFTS disease progression and fatal outcome. These findings provide insights into the clinical features and molecular underpinnings of severe SFTS, which may aid in patient care and therapeutic design, and may also be conserved during infection by other highly pathogenic viruses.
PXD017882	32234761	Structure and allosteric activity of a single-disulfide conopeptide from Conus zonatus at human alpha3beta4 and alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. 	Identification and characterization of novel peptide components in the venom of Indian marine cone snails	Conopeptides, Conotoxins, Electrophysiology, NMR spectroscopy	Conopeptides are neurotoxic peptides in the venom of marine cone snails and have broad therapeutic potential for managing pain and other conditions. Here, we identified the single-disulfide peptides Czon1107 and Cca1669 from the venoms of Conus zonatus and Conus caracteristicus, respectively. We observed that Czon1107 strongly inhibits the human alpha3beta4 (IC50 15.7 +/- 3.0 mum) and alpha7 (IC50 77.1 +/- 0.05 mum) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes, but the activity of Cca1669 remains to be identified. Czon1107 acted at a site distinct from the orthosteric receptor site. Solution NMR experiments revealed that Czon1107 exists in equilibrium between conformational states that are the result of a key Ser(4)-Pro(5)cis-trans isomerization. Moreover, we found that the X-Pro amide bonds in the inter-cysteine loop are rigidly constrained to cis conformations. Structure-activity experiments of Czon1107 and its variants at positions P5 and P7 revealed that the conformation around the X-Pro bonds (cis-trans) plays an important role in receptor subtype selectivity. The cis conformation at the Cys(6)-Pro(7) peptide bond was essential for alpha3beta4 nAChR subtype allosteric selectivity. In summary, we have identified a unique single-disulfide conopeptide with a noncompetitive, potentially allosteric inhibitory mechanism at the nAChRs. The small size and rigidity of the Czon1107 peptide could provide a scaffold for rational drug design strategies for allosteric nAChR modulation. This new paradigm in the "conotoxinomic" structure-function space provides an impetus to screen venom from other Conus species for similar, short bioactive peptides that allosterically modulate ligand-gated receptor function.
PXD016605	32234966	Immediate Adaptation Analysis Implicates BCL6 as an EGFR-TKI Combination Therapy Target in NSCLC. 	Immediate adaption - Quantitative Proteomics of BCL6 silencing and EGFR TK inhibition	A431 cells, BCL6 siRNA, EGFR inhibition, LC-MS, TMT proteomics, gefitinib, time course	Drug resistance is a major obstacle to curative cancer therapies, and increased understanding of the molecular events contributing to resistance would enable better prediction of therapy response, as well as contribute to new targets for combination therapy. Here we have analyzed the early molecular response to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibition using RNA sequencing data covering 13,486 genes and mass spectrometry data covering 10,138 proteins. This analysis revealed a massive response to EGFR inhibition already within the first 24 h, including significant regulation of hundreds of genes known to control downstream signaling, such as transcription factors, kinases, phosphatases and ubiquitin E3-ligases. Importantly, this response included upregulation of key genes in multiple oncogenic signaling pathways that promote proliferation and survival, such as ERBB3, FGFR2, JAK3, and BCL6, indicating an early adaptive response to EGFR inhibition. Using a library of more than 500 approved and experimental compounds in a combination therapy screen, we could show that several kinase inhibitors with targets including JAK3 and FGFR2 increased the response to EGFR inhibitors. Further, we investigated the functional impact of BCL6 upregulation in response to EGFR inhibition using siRNA-based silencing of BCL6. Proteomics profiling revealed that BCL6 inhibited transcription of multiple target genes including p53, resulting in reduced apoptosis which implicates BCL6 upregulation as a new EGFR inhibitor treatment escape mechanism. Finally, we demonstrate that combined treatment targeting both EGFR and BCL6 act synergistically in killing lung cancer cells. In conclusion, or data indicates that multiple different adaptive mechanisms may act in concert to blunt the cellular impact of EGFR inhibition, and we suggest BCL6 as a potential target for EGFR inhibitor-based combination therapy.
PXD017867	32235494	Proteomic Analysis of Renal Biomarkers of Kidney Allograft Fibrosis-A Study in Renal Transplant Patients. 	Proteomic analysis of renal biomarkers of kidney allograft fibrosis - a study in renal transplant patients	kidney fibrosis, nano-lc-msms, transplant	Renal transplantation is the preferred treatment of end stage renal disease, but allograft survival is limited by the development of interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy in response to various stimuli. Much effort has been put into identifying new protein markers of fibrosis to support the diagnosis. In the present work, we performed an in-depth quantitative proteomics analysis of allograft biopsies from 31 prevalent renal transplant patients and correlated the quantified proteins with the volume fraction of fibrosis as determined by a morphometric method. Linear regression analysis identified four proteins that were highly associated with the degree of interstitial fibrosis, namely Coagulation Factor XIII A chain (estimate 18.7, adjusted p < 0.03), Uridine Phosphorylase 1 (estimate 19.4, adjusted p < 0.001), Actin-related protein 2/3 subunit 2 (estimate 34.2, adjusted p < 0.05) and Cytochrome C Oxidase Assembly Factor 6 homolog (estimate -44.9, adjusted p < 0.002), even after multiple testing. Proteins that were negatively associated with fibrosis (p < 0.005) were primarily related to normal metabolic processes and respiration, whereas proteins that were positively associated with fibrosis (p < 0.005) were involved in catabolic processes, cytoskeleton organization and the immune response. The identified proteins may be candidates for further validation with regards to renal fibrosis. The results support the notion that cytoskeleton organization and immune responses are prevalent processes in renal allograft fibrosis.
PXD017202	32236513	Cyclin B1-Cdk1 facilitates MAD1 release from the nuclear pore to ensure a robust spindle checkpoint. 	Cyclin B1-Cdk1 binds MAD1 and facilitates its release from the nuclear pore complex to ensure a robust Spindle Assembly Checkpoint	MS3, TMT	How the cell rapidly and completely reorganizes its architecture when it divides is a problem that has fascinated researchers for almost 150 yr. We now know that the core regulatory machinery is highly conserved in eukaryotes, but how these multiple protein kinases, protein phosphatases, and ubiquitin ligases are coordinated in space and time to remodel the cell in a matter of minutes remains a major question. Cyclin B1-Cdk is the primary kinase that drives mitotic remodeling; here we show that it is targeted to the nuclear pore complex (NPC) by binding an acidic face of the kinetochore checkpoint protein, MAD1, where it coordinates NPC disassembly with kinetochore assembly. Localized cyclin B1-Cdk1 is needed for the proper release of MAD1 from the embrace of TPR at the nuclear pore so that it can be recruited to kinetochores before nuclear envelope breakdown to maintain genomic stability.
PXD015636	32240305	Identification of client iron-sulfur proteins of the chloroplastic NFU2 transfer protein in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Getting further into NFU2 function in Fe-S clusters transfer, a proteomic approach, interactome	GFP immunoprecipitation, chloroplaste, interactome	Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) proteins have critical functions in plastids, notably participating in photosynthetic electron transfer, sulfur and nitrogen assimilation, chlorophyll metabolism, and vitamin or amino acid biosynthesis. Their maturation relies on the so-called SUF (sulfur mobilization) assembly machinery. Fe-S clusters are synthesized de novo on a scaffold protein complex and then delivered to client proteins via several transfer proteins. However, the maturation pathways of most client proteins and their specificities for transfer proteins are mostly unknown. In order to decipher the proteins interacting with the Fe-S cluster transfer protein NFU2, one of the three plastidial representatives found in Arabidopsis thaliana, we performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of shoots, roots, and seedlings of nfu2 plants, combined with NFU2 co-immunoprecipitation and binary yeast two-hybrid experiments. We identified 14 new targets, among which nine were validated in planta using a binary bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay. These analyses also revealed a possible role for NFU2 in the plant response to desiccation. Altogether, this study better delineates the maturation pathways of many chloroplast Fe-S proteins, considerably extending the number of NFU2 clients. It also helps to clarify the respective roles of the three NFU paralogs NFU1, NFU2, and NFU3.
PXD015173	32240602	Cdk1 Controls Global Epigenetic Landscape in Embryonic Stem Cells. 	Cdk1 controls global epigenetic landscape  in embryonic stem cells	CDK1, analogue sensivtive, kinase	The cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1) drives cell division. To uncover additional functions of Cdk1, we generated knockin mice expressing an analog-sensitive version of Cdk1 in place of wild-type Cdk1. In our study, we focused on embryonic stem cells (ESCs), because this cell type displays particularly high Cdk1 activity. We found that in ESCs, a large fraction of Cdk1 substrates is localized on chromatin. Cdk1 phosphorylates many proteins involved in epigenetic regulation, including writers and erasers of all major histone marks. Consistent with these findings, inhibition of Cdk1 altered histone-modification status of ESCs. High levels of Cdk1 in ESCs phosphorylate and partially inactivate Dot1l, the H3K79 methyltransferase responsible for placing activating marks on gene bodies. Decrease of Cdk1 activity during ESC differentiation de-represses Dot1l, thereby allowing coordinated expression of differentiation genes. These analyses indicate that Cdk1 functions to maintain the epigenetic identity of ESCs.
PXD017357	32240951	Ubiquitin Linkage Specificity of Deubiquitinases Determines Cyclophilin Nuclear Localization and Degradation. 	Substrates identification of yeast Ubp2 through DILUS	DUB, SDS-PAGE, SILAC, StageTip, TCL, UbC, Ubp2, offline-LC	Ubiquitin chain specificity has been described for some deubiquitinases (DUBs) but lacks a comprehensive profiling in vivo. We used quantitative proteomics to compare the seven lysine-linked ubiquitin chains between wild-type yeast and its 20 DUB-deletion strains, which may reflect the linkage specificity of DUBs in vivo. Utilizing the specificity and ubiquitination heterogeneity, we developed a method termed DUB-mediated identification of linkage-specific ubiquitinated substrates (DILUS) to screen the ubiquitinated lysine residues on substrates modified with certain chains and regulated by specific DUB. Then we were able to identify 166 Ubp2-regulating substrates with 244 sites potentially modified with K63-linked chains. Among these substrates, we further demonstrated that cyclophilin A (Cpr1) modified with K63-linked chain on K151 site was regulated by Ubp2 and mediated the nuclear translocation of zinc finger protein Zpr1. The K48-linked chains at non-K151 sites of Cpr1 were mainly regulated by Ubp3 and served as canonical signals for proteasome-mediated degradation.
PXD014603	32240968	A comprehensive analysis of the lysine acetylome reveals diverse functions of acetylated proteins during de-etiolation in Zea mays. 	A Comprehensive Analysis of the Lysine Acetylome Reveals Diverse Functions of Acetylated Proteins During De-etiolation in Zea mays	De-etiolation, Lysine-acetylation, Maize seedling, Photosynthesis establishment	Lysine acetylation is one of the most important post-translational modifications and is involved in multiple cellular processes in plants. There is evidence that acetylation may play an important role in light-induced de-etiolation, a key developmental switch from skotomorphogenesis to photomorphogenesis. During this transition, establishment of photosynthesis is of great significance. However, studies on acetylome dynamics during de-etiolation are limited. Here, we performed the first global lysine acetylome analysis for Zea mays seedlings undergoing de-etiolation, using nano liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry, and identified 814 lysine-acetylated sites on 462 proteins. Bioinformatics analysis of this acetylome showed that most of the lysine-acetylated proteins are predicted to be located in the cytoplasm, nucleus, chloroplast, and mitochondria. In addition, we detected ten lysine acetylation motifs and found that the accumulation of 482 lysine-acetylated peptides corresponding to 289 proteins changed significantly during de-etiolation. These proteins include transcription factors, histones, and proteins involved in chlorophyll synthesis, photosynthesis light reaction, carbon assimilation, glycolysis, the TCA cycle, amino acid metabolism, lipid metabolism, and nucleotide metabolism. Our study provides an in-depth dataset that extends our knowledge of in vivo acetylome dynamics during de-etiolation in monocots. This dataset promotes our understanding of the functional consequences of lysine acetylation in diverse cellular metabolic regulatory processes, and will be a useful toolkit for further investigations of the lysine acetylome and de-etiolation in plants.
PXD015845	32241914	Phosphoproteomic characterization of the signaling network resulting from activation of the chemokine receptor CCR2. 	Phosphoproteomic Characterization of Signaling Networks Resulting from Activation of Chemokine Receptor CCR2	CCR2, DIA, Phosphoproteomics, Signalling	Leukocyte recruitment is a universal feature of tissue inflammation and regulated by the interactions of chemokines with their G protein-coupled receptors. Activation of CC chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) by its cognate chemokine ligands, including CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), plays a central role in recruitment of monocytes in several inflammatory diseases. In this study, we used phosphoproteomics to conduct an unbiased characterization of the signaling network resulting from CCL2 activation of CCR2. Using data-independent acquisition MS analysis, we quantified both the proteome and phosphoproteome in FlpIn-HEK293T cells stably expressing CCR2 at six time points after activation with CCL2. Differential expression analysis identified 699 significantly regulated phosphorylation sites on 441 proteins. As expected, many of these proteins are known to participate in canonical signal transduction pathways and in the regulation of actin cytoskeleton dynamics, including numerous guanine nucleotide exchange factors and GTPase-activating proteins. Moreover, we identified regulated phosphorylation sites in numerous proteins that function in the nucleus, including several constituents of the nuclear pore complex. The results of this study provide an unprecedented level of detail of CCR2 signaling and identify potential targets for regulation of CCR2 function.
PXD017724	32241916	Thyrocyte cell survival and adaptation to chronic endoplasmic reticulum stress due to misfolded thyroglobulin. 	Cell survival and adaptation to chronic endoplasmic reticulum stress in thyrocytes	ER stress, glycoprotein, misfolding, secretory pathway, thyroglobulin, thyroid	The large secretory glycoprotein thyroglobulin is the primary translation product of thyroid follicular cells. This difficult-to-fold protein is susceptible to structural alterations that disable export of the misfolded thyroglobulin from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which is a known cause of congenital hypothyroidism characterized by severe chronic thyrocyte ER stress. Nevertheless, individuals with this disease commonly grow a goiter, indicating thyroid cell survival and adaptation. To model these processes, here we continuously exposed rat PCCL3 thyrocytes to tunicamycin, which causes a significant degree of ER stress that is specifically attributable to thyroglobulin misfolding. We found that, in response, PCCL3 cells down-regulate expression of the "tunicamycin transporter" (major facilitator superfamily domain containing-2A, Mfsd2a). Following CRISPR/Cas9-mediated Mfsd2a deletion, PCCL3 cells could no longer escape the chronic effects of high-dose tunicamycin, as demonstrated by persistent accumulation of unglycosylated thyroglobulin; nevertheless, these thyrocytes survived and grew. A proteomic analysis of these cells adapted to chronic ER protein misfolding revealed many hundreds of up-regulated proteins, indicating stimulation of ER chaperones, oxidoreductases, stress responses, and lipid biosynthesis pathways. Further, we noted increased phospho-AMP-kinase, suggesting up-regulated AMP-kinase activity, and decreased phospho-S6-kinase and protein translation, suggesting decreased mTOR activity. These changes are consistent with conserved cell survival/adaptation pathways. We also observed a less-differentiated thyrocyte phenotype with decreased PAX8, FOXE1, and TPO protein levels, along with decreased thyroglobulin mRNA levels. In summary, we have developed a model of thyrocyte survival and growth during chronic continuous ER stress that recapitulates features of congenital hypothyroid goiter caused by mutant thyroglobulin.
PXD014897	32242014	A salvage pathway maintains highly functional respiratory complex I. 	Salvage pathway maintains functional respiratory complex I	ClpXP protease, Mitochondrial respiratory complex I, Proteolytic control, Respiratory deficiency, Salvage pathway	Regulation of the turnover of complex I (CI), the largest mitochondrial respiratory chain complex, remains enigmatic despite huge advancement in understanding its structure and the assembly. Here, we report that the NADH-oxidizing N-module of CI is turned over at a higher rate and largely independently of the rest of the complex by mitochondrial matrix protease ClpXP, which selectively removes and degrades damaged subunits. The observed mechanism seems to be a safeguard against the accumulation of dysfunctional CI arising from the inactivation of the N-module subunits due to attrition caused by its constant activity under physiological conditions. This CI salvage pathway maintains highly functional CI through a favorable mechanism that demands much lower energetic cost than de novo synthesis and reassembly of the entire CI. Our results also identify ClpXP activity as an unforeseen target for therapeutic interventions in the large group of mitochondrial diseases characterized by the CI instability.
PXD017078	32242015	Antibacterial effects of nanopillar surfaces are mediated by cell impedance, penetration and induction of oxidative stress. 	Nanopillar surface mediates antibacterial effects via cell impedance, penetration and induction of oxidative stress	Escherichia coli, Nanopillars, Staphylococcus aureus	Some insects, such as dragonflies, have evolved nanoprotrusions on their wings that rupture bacteria on contact. This has inspired the design of antibacterial implant surfaces with insect-wing mimetic nanopillars made of synthetic materials. Here, we characterise the physiological and morphological effects of mimetic titanium nanopillars on bacteria. The nanopillars induce deformation and penetration of the Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial cell envelope, but do not rupture or lyse bacteria. They can also inhibit bacterial cell division, and trigger production of reactive oxygen species and increased abundance of oxidative stress proteins. Our results indicate that nanopillars' antibacterial activities may be mediated by oxidative stress, and do not necessarily require bacterial lysis.
PXD017346	32243163	Selection of Heating Temperatures Improves the Sensitivity of the Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration Assay. 	Selection of Heating Temperatures Improves the Sensitivity of Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (PISA) Assay	Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (PISA) Assay, human cell line lysate	The thermal shift assay is a robust method of discovering protein-ligand interactions by measuring the alterations in protein thermal stability under various conditions. Several thermal shift assays have been developed and their throughput has been advanced greatly by the rapid progress in tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics. A recent paper by Gaetani et al. ( J. Proteome Res. 2019, 18 (11), 4027-4037) introduced the proteome integral solubility alteration (PISA) assay, further increasing throughput and simplifying the data analysis. Both DeltaSm (a proxy of the difference between areas under the melting curves) and fold changes (ratios between integral samples) are readouts of the PISA assay and positively related to DeltaTm (shift in melting temperatures). Here, we show that the magnitudes of these readouts are inherently small in PISA assay, which is a challenge for quantitation. Both simulation and experimental results show that the selection of a subset of heating temperatures ameliorates the small difference problem and improves the sensitivity of the PISA assay.
PXD016470	32243168	A Bayesian Null Interval Hypothesis Test Controls False Discovery Rates and Improves Sensitivity in Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics. 	Fractionated Human/E. coli Benchmark Data Set	Benchmark, E. coli	Statistical significance tests are a common feature in quantitative proteomics workflows. The Student's t-test is widely used to compute the statistical significance of a protein's change between two groups of samples. However, the t-test's null hypothesis asserts that the difference in means between two groups is exactly zero, often marking small but uninteresting fold-changes as statistically significant. Compensations to address this issue are widely used in quantitative proteomics, but we suggest that a replacement of the t-test with a Bayesian approach offers a better path forward. In this article, we describe a Bayesian hypothesis test in which the null hypothesis is an interval rather than a single point at zero; the width of the interval is estimated from population statistics. The improved sensitivity of the method substantially increases the number of truly changing proteins detected in two benchmark data sets (ProteomeXchange identifiers PXD005590 and PXD016470). The method has been implemented within FlashLFQ, an open-source software program that quantifies bottom-up proteomics search results obtained from any search tool. FlashLFQ is rapid, sensitive, and accurate and is available both as an easy-to-use graphical user interface (Windows) and as a command-line tool (Windows/Linux/OSX).
PXD012615	32243721	Cell-type-resolved proteomic analysis of the human liver. 	Human liver cells proteome    .	Human liver, endothelial cells, hepatocytes, kupfer cells, stellate cells	BACKGROUND & AIMS: The human liver functions through a complex interplay between parenchymal and non-parenchymal cells. Mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of intact tissue has provided an in-depth view of the human liver proteome. However, the predominance of parenchymal cells (hepatocytes) means that the total tissue proteome mainly reflects hepatocyte expression. Here we therefore set out to analyse the proteomes of the major parenchymal and non-parenchymal cell types in the human liver. METHODS: We applied quantitative label-free proteomic analysis on the major cell types of the human liver: hepatocytes, liver endothelial cells, Kupffer cells and hepatic stellate cells. RESULTS: We identified 9791 proteins, revealing distinct protein expression profiles across cell types, whose in vivo relevance was shown by the presence of cell-type-specific proteins. Analysis of proteins related to the immune system indicated that mechanisms of immune-mediated liver injury include the involvement of several cell types. Furthermore, in-depth investigation of proteins related to the absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and toxicity (ADMET) of xenobiotics showed that ADMET-related tasks are not exclusively confined to hepatocytes, and that non-parenchymal cells may contribute to drug transport and metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the data we provide constitute a unique resource for exploring the proteomes of the major types of human liver cells, which will facilitate an improved understanding of the human liver in health and disease.
PXD015461	32243783	Peroxisome Elevation Induces Stem Cell Differentiation and Intestinal Epithelial Repair. 	Peroxisome elevation induces stem cell differentiation and intestinal epithelial repair	stem cell differentiation	Epithelial-repair-dependent mucosal healing (MH) is associated with a more favorable prognosis for patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). MH is accomplished via repair and regeneration of the intestinal epithelium. However, the mechanism underlying MH is ill defined. We found a striking upregulation of peroxisomes in the injured crypts of IBD patients. By increasing peroxisome levels in Drosophila midguts, we found that peroxisome elevation enhanced RAB7-dependent late endosome maturation, which then promoted stem and/or progenitor-cell differentiation via modulation of Janus Kinase (JAK) and Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (STAT)-SOX21A signaling. This in turn enhanced ISC-mediated regeneration. Importantly, RAB7 and SOX21 were upregulated in the crypts of IBD patients. Moreover, administration of drugs that increased peroxisome levels reversed the symptoms of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in mice. This study demonstrates a peroxisome-mediated epithelial repair mechanism, which opens a therapeutic avenue for the enhancement of MH in IBD patients.
PXD016748	32244364	SUMOylation Protects FASN Against Proteasomal Degradation in Breast Cancer Cells Treated with Grape Leaf Extract. 	grape leaves polyphenols inhibit breast cancer malignancy	breast cancer, polyphenols	Existing therapeutic strategies for breast cancer are limited by tumor recurrence and drug-resistance. Antioxidant plant-derived compounds such as flavonoids reduce adverse outcomes and have been identified as a potential source of antineoplastic agent with less undesirable side effects. Here, we describe the novel regulation of fatty-acid synthase (FASN), the key enzyme in de novo fatty-acid synthesis, whereby Vitis vinifera L. cv Vermentino leaf hydroalcoholic extract lowers its protein stability that is regulated by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO)ylation. The phenolic compounds characterization was performed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), whereas mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), Western blotting/co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and RT-PCR, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), clonogenicity assays, and FACS analysis were used to measure the expression of targets and tumorigenicity. Vermentino extract exhibits antitumorigenic effects, and we went on to determine that FASN and ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme 9 (UBC9), the sole E2 enzyme required for SUMOylation, were significantly reduced. Moreover, FASN was found SUMOylated in human breast cancer tissues and cell lines, and lack of SUMOylation caused by SUMO2 silencing reduced FASN protein stability. These results suggest that SUMOylation protects FASN against proteasomal degradation and may exert oncogenic activity through alteration of lipid metabolism, whereas Vermentino extract inhibits these effects which supports the additional validation of the therapeutic value of this compound in breast cancer.
PXD017056	32244435	Vesiculation of Red Blood Cells in the Blood Bank: A Multi-Omics Approach towards Identification of Causes and Consequences. 	VESICULATION OF RED BLOOD CELLS IN THE BLOOD BANK: A MULTI-OMICS APPROACH TOWARDS IDENTIFICATION OF CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES	Blood, Lipidomics, Metabolomics, RBC	Microvesicle generation is an integral part of the aging process of red blood cells in vivo and in vitro. Extensive vesiculation impairs function and survival of red blood cells after transfusion, and microvesicles contribute to transfusion reactions. The triggers and mechanisms of microvesicle generation are largely unknown. In this study, we combined morphological, immunochemical, proteomic, lipidomic, and metabolomic analyses to obtain an integrated understanding of the mechanisms underlying microvesicle generation during the storage of red blood cell concentrates. Our data indicate that changes in membrane organization, triggered by altered protein conformation, constitute the main mechanism of vesiculation, and precede changes in lipid organization. The resulting selective accumulation of membrane components in microvesicles is accompanied by the recruitment of plasma proteins involved in inflammation and coagulation. Our data may serve as a basis for further dissection of the fundamental mechanisms of red blood cell aging and vesiculation, for identifying the cause-effect relationship between blood bank storage and transfusion complications, and for assessing the role of microvesicles in pathologies affecting red blood cells.
PXD014789	32245408	PGRMC1 phosphorylation affects cell shape, motility, glycolysis, mitochondrial form and function, and tumor growth. 	Compare total proteomics profile of PaCa-2 cells using 1D and 2D IDA LC and SWATH analysis	SWATH, cancer	BACKGROUND: Progesterone Receptor Membrane Component 1 (PGRMC1) is expressed in many cancer cells, where it is associated with detrimental patient outcomes. It contains phosphorylated tyrosines which evolutionarily preceded deuterostome gastrulation and tissue differentiation mechanisms. RESULTS: We demonstrate that manipulating PGRMC1 phosphorylation status in MIA PaCa-2 (MP) cells imposes broad pleiotropic effects. Relative to parental cells over-expressing hemagglutinin-tagged wild-type (WT) PGRMC1-HA, cells expressing a PGRMC1-HA-S57A/S181A double mutant (DM) exhibited reduced levels of proteins involved in energy metabolism and mitochondrial function, and altered glucose metabolism suggesting modulation of the Warburg effect. This was associated with increased PI3K/AKT activity, altered cell shape, actin cytoskeleton, motility, and mitochondrial properties. An S57A/Y180F/S181A triple mutant (TM) indicated the involvement of Y180 in PI3K/AKT activation. Mutation of Y180F strongly attenuated subcutaneous xenograft tumor growth in NOD-SCID gamma mice. Elsewhere we demonstrate altered metabolism, mutation incidence, and epigenetic status in these cells. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, these results indicate that mutational manipulation of PGRMC1 phosphorylation status exerts broad pleiotropic effects relevant to cancer and other cell biology.
PXD016267	32245947	An oncopeptide regulates m(6)A recognition by the m(6)A reader IGF2BP1 and tumorigenesis. 	Identification of exogenously expressed RBRP-GFP peptide	exogenous RBRP peptide	N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is the most prevalent modification in eukaryotic RNAs. The biological importance of m(6)A relies on m(6)A readers, which control mRNA fate and function. However, it remains unexplored whether additional regulatory subunits of m(6)A readers are involved in the m(6)A recognition on RNAs. Here we discover that the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) LINC00266-1 encodes a 71-amino acid peptide. The peptide mainly interacts with the RNA-binding proteins, including the m(6)A reader IGF2BP1, and is thus named "RNA-binding regulatory peptide" (RBRP). RBRP binds to IGF2BP1 and strengthens m(6)A recognition by IGF2BP1 on RNAs, such as c-Myc mRNA, to increase the mRNA stability and expression of c-Myc, thereby promoting tumorigenesis. Cancer patients with RBRP(high) have a poor prognosis. Thus, the oncopeptide RBRP encoded by LINC00266-1 is a regulatory subunit of m(6)A readers and strengthens m(6)A recognition on the target RNAs by the m(6)A reader to exert its oncogenic functions.
PXD014560	32245955	Mild proteasomal stress improves photosynthetic performance in Arabidopsis chloroplasts. 	Proteomic data of MG132 treated A. thaliana WT and ppi2	plastid protein import, ubiquitin proteasome system	The proteasome is an essential protein-degradation machinery in eukaryotic cells that controls protein turnover and thereby the biogenesis and function of cell organelles. Chloroplasts import thousands of nuclear-encoded precursor proteins from the cytosol, suggesting that the bulk of plastid proteins is transiently exposed to the cytosolic proteasome complex. Therefore, there is a cytosolic equilibrium between chloroplast precursor protein import and proteasomal degradation. We show here that a shift in this equilibrium, induced by mild genetic proteasome impairment, results in elevated precursor protein abundance in the cytosol and significantly increased accumulation of functional photosynthetic complexes in protein import-deficient chloroplasts. Importantly, a proteasome lid mutant shows improved photosynthetic performance, even in the absence of an import defect, signifying that functional precursors are continuously degraded. Hence, turnover of plastid precursors in the cytosol represents a mechanism to constrain thylakoid membrane assembly and photosynthetic electron transport.
PXD014743	32247179	Characterization of the protein and peptide of excipient zein by the multi-enzyme digestion coupled with nano-LC-MS/MS. 	Identification of zein proteome by multi-enzyme digestion	Excipient zein, In silicon digestion, Multi enzyme digestion, Peptidomics	Zein, a class of prolamine proteins extracted from maize, is extensively used in the food and pharmaceutical industries. Characterization of its components is essential for quality control and safety evaluation. We performed in silico digestion of zein proteins using tandem combinations of different proteinases, to improve protein sequence coverage and subsequent identification by nano-LC-MS/MS analysis. Trypsin/chymotrypsin yielded the highest protein sequence coverage of up to 79.5% and increased the number of proteins from 11 to 35 compared to trypsin/Lys-C. Besides, SDS-PAGE analysis revealed 37 proteins in the zein extract, as well as the possibility of protein polymers. Also, 420 peptides originating from 71 proteins were identified, of which 116 were predicted as bioactive by in silico approach. In conclusion, in silico prediction coupled with multi-enzyme digestion can significantly improve the coverage of complex zein protein proteome, and the potential function of zein proteins and peptides need be further investigated.
PXD017983	32249768	FBXO22 degrades nuclear PTEN to promote tumorigenesis. 	Immunoprecipitation of PTEN coupled Nano-LCESI-MS/MS	293T, Nano-LCESI-MS/MS, PTEN, immunoprecipitation	Nuclear localization of PTEN is essential for its tumor suppressive role, and loss of nuclear PTEN is more prominent than cytoplasmic PTEN in many kinds of cancers. However, nuclear PTEN-specific regulatory mechanisms were rarely reported. Based on the finding that nuclear PTEN is more unstable than cytoplasmic PTEN, here we identify that F-box only protein 22 (FBXO22) induces ubiquitylation of nuclear but not cytoplasmic PTEN at lysine 221, which is responsible for the degradation of nuclear PTEN. FBXO22 plays a tumor-promoting role by ubiquitylating and degrading nuclear PTEN. In accordance, FBXO22 is overexpressed in various cancer types, and contributes to nuclear PTEN downregulation in colorectal cancer tissues. Cumulatively, our study reports the mechanism to specifically regulate the stability of nuclear PTEN, which would provide the opportunity for developing therapeutic strategies aiming to achieve complete reactivation of PTEN as a tumor suppressor.
PXD016963	32250121	Fast and Highly Efficient Affinity Enrichment of Azide-A-DSBSO Cross-Linked Peptides. 	Fast and highly efficient affinity enrichment of Azide-A-DSBSO cross-linked peptides.	Cross-linking, DBCO, DSBSO, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, affinity enrichment, click reaction	Cross-linking mass spectrometry is an increasingly used, powerful technique to study protein-protein interactions or to provide structural information. Due to substochiometric reaction efficiencies, cross-linked peptides are usually low abundance. This results in challenging data evaluation and the need for an effective enrichment. Here we describe an improved, easy to implement, one-step method to enrich azide-tagged, acid-cleavable disuccinimidyl bis-sulfoxide (DSBSO) cross-linked peptides using dibenzocyclooctyne (DBCO) coupled Sepharose beads. We probed this method using recombinant Cas9 and E. coli ribosome. For Cas9, the number of detectable cross-links was increased from ~100 before enrichment to 580 cross-links after enrichment. To mimic a cellular lysate, E. coli ribosome was spiked into a tryptic HEK background at a ratio of 1:2-1:100. The number of detectable unique cross-links was maintained high at ~100. The estimated enrichment efficiency was improved by a factor of 4-5 (based on XL numbers) compared to enrichment via biotin and streptavidin. We were still able to detect cross-links from 0.25 mug cross-linked E. coli ribosomes in a background of 100 mug tryptic HEK peptides, indicating a high enrichment sensitivity. In contrast to conventional enrichment techniques, like SEC, the time needed for preparation and MS measurement is significantly reduced. This robust, fast, and selective enrichment method for azide-tagged linkers will contribute to mapping protein-protein interactions, investigating protein architectures in more depth, and helping to understand complex biological processes.
PXD016968	32252346	Nucleolin-Sle A Glycoforms as E-Selectin Ligands and Potentially Targetable Biomarkers at the Cell Surface of Gastric Cancer Cells. 	O-linked glicoproteomics of gastric cancer cell lines OCUM-1, N87 and KATO-III	Cell lines, Gastric Cancer, Glycoproteomics, Sialyl-Lewis A	BACKGROUND: Gastric cancer (GC) is a major health burden worldwide, with half of patients developing metastases within 5 years after treatment, urging novel biomarkers for diagnosis and efficient therapeutic targeting. Sialyl-Lewis A (SLeA), a terminal glycoepitope of glycoproteins and glycolipids, offers tremendous potential towards this objective. It is rarely expressed in healthy tissues and blood cells, while it is present in highly metastatic cell lines and metastases. SLeA is also involved in E-selectin mediated metastasis, making it an ideal target to control disease dissemination. METHODS AND RESULTS: To improve cancer specificity, we have explored the SLeA-glycoproteome of six GC cell models, with emphasis on glycoproteins showing affinity for E-selectin. A novel bioinformatics-assisted algorithm identified nucleolin (NCL), a nuclear protein, as a potential targetable biomarker potentially involved in metastasis. Several immunoassays, including Western blot and in situ proximity ligation reinforced the existence of cell surface NCL-SLeA glycoforms in GC. The NCL-SLeA glycophenotype was associated with decreased survival and was not reflected in relevant healthy tissues. CONCLUSIONS: NCL-SLeA is a biomarker of poor prognosis in GC holding potential for precise cancer targeting. This is the first report describing SLeA in preferentially nuclear protein, setting a new paradigm for cancer biomarkers discovery and targeted therapies.
PXD017916	32252825	Diversity in Abeta deposit morphology and secondary proteome insolubility across models of Alzheimer-type amyloidosis. 	Compare the SDS-insoluble proteins among 7 Amyloidosis mouse models	Alzheimers disease, amyloid, detergent-insoluble proteins, protein homoestasis, transgenic mice	A hallmark pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the formation of amyloid beta (Abeta) deposits that exhibit diverse localization and morphologies, ranging from diffuse to cored-neuritic deposits in brain parenchyma, with cerebral vascular deposition in leptomeningeal and parenchymal compartments. Most AD brains exhibit the full spectrum of pathologic Abeta morphologies. In the course of studies to model AD amyloidosis, we have generated multiple transgenic mouse models that vary in the nature of the transgene constructs that are expressed; including the species origin of Abeta peptides, the levels and length of Abeta that is deposited, and whether mutant presenilin 1 (PS1) is co-expressed. These models recapitulate features of human AD amyloidosis, but interestingly some models can produce pathology in which one type of Abeta morphology dominates. In prior studies of mice that primarily develop cored-neuritic deposits, we determined that Abeta deposition is associated with changes in cytosolic protein solubility in which a subset of proteins become detergent-insoluble, indicative of secondary proteome instability. Here, we survey changes in cytosolic protein solubility across seven different transgenic mouse models that exhibit a range of Abeta deposit morphologies. We find a surprisingly diverse range of changes in proteome solubility across these models. Mice that deposit human Abeta40 and Abeta42 in cored-neuritic plaques had the most robust changes in proteome solubility. Insoluble cytosolic proteins were also detected in the brains of mice that develop diffuse Abeta42 deposits but to a lesser extent. Notably, mice with cored deposits containing only Abeta42 had relatively few proteins that became detergent-insoluble. Our data provide new insight into the diversity of biological effects that can be attributed to different types of Abeta pathology and support the view that fibrillar cored-neuritic plaque pathology is the more disruptive Abeta pathology in the Alzheimer's cascade.
PXD018247	32255623	NanoTPOT: Enhanced Sample Preparation for Quantitative Nanoproteomic Analysis. 	NanoTPOT: Enhanced Sample Preparation for Quantitative Na-noproteomic Analysis (revision work)	Hela, TMT	With the ever-growing need for protein-level understanding in pathological research, proteomics researchers thrive to examine detailed proteome dynamics using crucial, yet often limited, primary and clinical samples. Aside from mass spectrometer instrumentation advancement, a single-tube-based high-throughput sample processing workflow is imperative to ensure sensitive, quantitative, and reproducible protein analysis for these increasingly sophisticated studies. Leveraging the benefits of an acid-cleavable detergent, RapiGest SF Surfactant (Waters Corporation), we developed and optimized a nanoproteomic workflow that we termed Nanogram TMT Processing in One Tube (NanoTPOT). Through the assessment of proteolytic digestion, tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling, online and offline fractionation strategies, our optimized workflow effectively eliminated the need for sample desalting and enabled compatible sample processing for mass spectrometry analysis. We further applied the NanoTPOT workflow to examine cellular response to stress caused by dithiothreitol in HeLa cells, where we identified and quantified 6935 and 5474 proteins in TMT 10-plex experiments with one microgram of lysate protein and 2000 sorted HeLa cells (roughly half microgram lysate protein) in each channel, respectively. Our workflow has been proven to be an effective alternative for current nanoproteomic sample processing to minimize sample loss in biological and clinical applications.
PXD014924	32256382	Differential Proteomic Analysis of Chinese Giant Salamander Liver in Response to Fasting. 	Chinese giant salamander liver LC-MS/MS	Chinese giant salamander, fasting, liver	Chinese giant salamander Andrias davidianus has strong tolerance to starvation. Fasting triggers a complex array of adaptive metabolic responses, a process in which the liver plays a central role. Here, a high-throughput proteomic analysis was carried out on liver samples obtained from adult A. davidianus after 3, 7, and 11 months of fasting. As a result, the expression levels of 364 proteins were significantly changed in the fasted liver. Functional analysis demonstrated that the expression levels of key proteins involved in fatty acid oxidation, tricarboxylic acid cycle, gluconeogenesis, ketogenesis, amino acid oxidation, urea cycle, and antioxidant systems were increased in the fasted liver, especially at 7 and 11 months after fasting. In contrast, the expression levels of vital proteins involved in pentose phosphate pathway and protein synthesis were decreased after fasting. We also found that fasting not only activated fatty acid oxidation and ketogenesis-related transcription factors PPARA and PPARGC1A, but also activated gluconeogenesis-related transcription factors FOXO1, HNF4A, and KLF15. This study confirms the central role of lipid and acetyl-CoA metabolism in A. davidianus liver in response to fasting at the protein level and provides insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the metabolic response of A. davidianus liver to fasting.
PXD013465	32256857	Comparative Proteomic Investigation of Plasma Reveals Novel Potential Biomarker Groups for Acute Aortic Dissection. 	Comparative proteomic investigation of plasma reveals novel potential biomarker groups for acute aortic dissection	acute aortic dissection, beta-2-glycoprotein 1, biomarker, carboxypeptidase N catalytic chain, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)	Acute aortic dissection (AAD) is a catastrophic cardiovascular disease with high disability and mortality due to multiple fatal complications. However, the molecular changes of the serum proteome after AAD are not very clear. Here, we performed isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation- (iTRAQ-) based comparative proteomic analysis to investigate the proteome profile changes after AAD by collecting plasma samples from 20 AAD patients and 20 controls. Out of the 345 identified proteins, 266 were considered as high-quality quantified proteins (95%confident peptides >= 2), of which 25 proteins were accumulated and 12 were reduced in AAD samples. Gene ontology enrichment analysis showed that the 25 AAD-accumulated proteins were enriched in high-density lipoprotein particles for the cellular component category and protein homodimerization acidity for the molecular function category. Protein-protein interaction network analysis showed that serum amyloid A proteins (SAAs), complement component proteins, and carboxypeptidase N catalytic chain proteins (CPNs) possessed the key nodes of the network. The expression levels of six selected AAD-accumulated proteins, B2-GP1, CPN1, F9, LBP, SAA1, and SAA2, were validated by ELISA. Moreover, ROC analysis showed that the AUCs of B2-GP1 and CPN1 were 0.808 and 0.702, respectively. Our data provide insights into molecular change profiles in proteome levels after AAD and indicate that B2-GP1 and CPN1 are potential biomarkers for AAD.
PXD009256	32259199	Mitochondrial translation and dynamics synergistically extend lifespan in C. elegans through HLH-30. 	Total Proteome Analysis in RNAi treated C. elegans (mrps5, fzo1, drp1, eat3)	Caenorhabditis elegans, RNAi, SWATH, drp1, eat3, fzo1, mrps-5	Mitochondrial form and function are closely interlinked in homeostasis and aging. Inhibiting mitochondrial translation is known to increase lifespan in C. elegans, and is accompanied by a fragmented mitochondrial network. However, whether this link between mitochondrial translation and morphology is causal in longevity remains uncharacterized. Here, we show in C. elegans that disrupting mitochondrial network homeostasis by blocking fission or fusion synergizes with reduced mitochondrial translation to prolong lifespan and stimulate stress response such as the mitochondrial unfolded protein response, UPRMT. Conversely, immobilizing the mitochondrial network through a simultaneous disruption of fission and fusion abrogates the lifespan increase induced by mitochondrial translation inhibition. Furthermore, we find that the synergistic effect of inhibiting both mitochondrial translation and dynamics on lifespan, despite stimulating UPRMT, does not require it. Instead, this lifespan-extending synergy is exclusively dependent on the lysosome biogenesis and autophagy transcription factor HLH-30/TFEB. Altogether, our study reveals the mechanistic crosstalk between mitochondrial translation, mitochondrial dynamics, and lysosomal signaling in regulating longevity.
PXD014450	32264835	Identification of surface proteins in a clinical Staphylococcus haemolyticus isolate by bacterial surface shaving. 	Proteomic study of Staphylococcus haemolyticus after the host-microbe co-colonisation	Q Exactive HF, Staphylococcus haemolyticus, TMT, Tandem mass tag, surface shaving	BACKGROUND: The skin commensal Staphylococcus haemolyticus is an emerging nosocomial pathogen. Despite its clinical relevance, published information about S. haemolyticus virulence factors is scarce. In this study, the adhesive and biofilm forming properties of ten clinical and ten commensal S. haemolyticus strains were examined using standard adhesion and biofilm assays. One of the clinical strains was used to identify expressed surface proteins using bacterial surface shaving. Protein abundance was examined by a comparative analysis between bacterial protein expression after human keratinocyte (HaCaT) colonization and growth in cell culture media supplemented with serum. Relative protein quantification was performed by labeling peptides with tandem mass tags (TMT) prior to Mass Spectrometry analysis. Surface proteins can be used as novel targets for antimicrobial treatment and in diagnostics. RESULTS: Adherence to fibronectin, collagen and plastic was low in all tested strains, but with significantly higher adhesion to fibronectin (p = 0.041) and collagen (p = 0.001) in the commensal strains. There was a trend towards higher degree of biofilm formation in the clinical strains (p = 0.059). By using surface shaving, 325 proteins were detected, of which 65 were classified as surface proteins. Analyses showed that the abundance of nineteen (5.8%) proteins were significantly changed following HaCaT colonization. The bacterial Toll/interleukin-1 like (TIRs) domain containing protein (p = 0.04), the transglycosylase SceD (p = 0.01), and the bifunctional autolysin Atl (p = 0.04) showed a 1.4, 1.6- and 1.5-fold increased abundance. The staphylococcal secretory antigen (SsaA) (p = 0.04) was significantly downregulated (- 1.5 fold change) following HaCaT colonization. Among the 65 surface proteins the elastin binding protein (Ebps), LPXAG and LPXSG domain containing proteins and five LPXTG domain containing proteins were identified; three Sdr-like proteins, the extracellular matrix binding protein Embp and a SasH-like protein. CONCLUSIONS: This study has provided novel knowledge about expression of S. haemolyticus surface proteins after direct contact with eukaryotic cells and in media supplemented with serum. We have identified surface proteins and immune evasive proteins previously only functionally described in other staphylococcal species. The identification of expressed proteins after host-microbe interaction offers a tool for the discovery and design of novel targets for antimicrobial treatment.
PXD008293	32264925	HDACi mediate UNG2 depletion, dysregulated genomic uracil and altered expression of oncoproteins and tumor suppressors in B- and T-cell lines. 	Histone deacetylase inhibitors mediate selective degradation of nuclear uracil-DNA glycosylase 2 and increased genomic uracil	AA, AID, activation induced deaminase, amino acid	BACKGROUND: HDAC inhibitors (HDACi) belong to a new group of chemotherapeutics that are increasingly used in the treatment of lymphocyte-derived malignancies, but their mechanisms of action remain poorly understood. Here we aimed to identify novel protein targets of HDACi in B- and T-lymphoma cell lines and to verify selected candidates across several mammalian cell lines. METHODS: Jurkat T- and SUDHL5 B-lymphocytes were treated with the HDACi SAHA (vorinostat) prior to SILAC-based quantitative proteome analysis. Selected differentially expressed proteins were verified by targeted mass spectrometry, RT-PCR and western analysis in multiple mammalian cell lines. Genomic uracil was quantified by LC-MS/MS, cell cycle distribution analyzed by flow cytometry and class switch recombination monitored by FACS in murine CH12F3 cells. RESULTS: SAHA treatment resulted in differential expression of 125 and 89 proteins in Jurkat and SUDHL5, respectively, of which 19 were commonly affected. Among these were several oncoproteins and tumor suppressors previously not reported to be affected by HDACi. Several key enzymes determining the cellular dUTP/dTTP ratio were downregulated and in both cell lines we found robust depletion of UNG2, the major glycosylase in genomic uracil sanitation. UNG2 depletion was accompanied by hyperacetylation and mediated by increased proteasomal degradation independent of cell cycle stage. UNG2 degradation appeared to be ubiquitous and was observed across several mammalian cell lines of different origin and with several HDACis. Loss of UNG2 was accompanied by 30-40% increase in genomic uracil in freely cycling HEK cells and reduced immunoglobulin class-switch recombination in murine CH12F3 cells. CONCLUSION: We describe several oncoproteins and tumor suppressors previously not reported to be affected by HDACi in previous transcriptome analyses, underscoring the importance of proteome analysis to identify cellular effectors of HDACi treatment. The apparently ubiquitous depletion of UNG2 and PCLAF establishes DNA base excision repair and translesion synthesis as novel pathways affected by HDACi treatment. Dysregulated genomic uracil homeostasis may aid interpretation of HDACi effects in cancer cells and further advance studies on this class of inhibitors in the treatment of APOBEC-expressing tumors, autoimmune disease and HIV-1.
PXD018832	32265273	Primary myeloid cell proteomics and transcriptomics: importance of beta-tubulin isotypes for osteoclast function. 	Primary myeloid cell proteomics and transcriptomics: importance of beta-tubulin isotypes for osteoclast function	Myeloid cell, Osteoclast, RNAseq, SILAC, Tubb6, Tubulin, Tubulin beta class V	Among hematopoietic cells, osteoclasts (OCs) and immature dendritic cells (DCs) are closely related myeloid cells with distinct functions: OCs participate skeleton maintenance while DCs sample the environment for foreign antigens. Such specificities rely on profound modifications of gene and protein expression during OC and DC differentiation. We provide global proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of primary mouse OCs and DCs, based on original stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and RNAseq data. We established specific signatures for OCs and DCs, including genes and proteins of unknown functions. In particular, we showed that OCs and DCs have the same alpha- and beta-tubulin isotype repertoire but that OCs express much more of the beta tubulin isotype Tubb6 (also known as TBB6). In both mouse and human OCs, we demonstrate that elevated expression of Tubb6 in OCs is necessary for correct podosomes organization and thus for the structure of the sealing zone, which sustains the bone resorption apparatus. Hence, lowering Tubb6 expression hinders OC resorption activity. Overall, we highlight here potential new regulators of OC and DC biology, and illustrate the functional importance of the tubulin isotype repertoire in the biology of differentiated cells.
PXD016392	32265294	Characterization of Signaling Pathways Associated with Pancreatic beta-cell Adaptive Flexibility in Compensation of Obesity-linked Diabetes in db/db Mice. 	Characterization of signaling pathways associated with pancreatic beta-cell adaptive flexibility in compensation of obesity-linked diabetes in db/db mice	PRM, db/db, islet	The onset of obesity-linked type 2 diabetes (T2D) is marked by an eventual failure in pancreatic beta-cell function and mass that is no longer able to compensate for the inherent insulin resistance and increased metabolic load intrinsic to obesity. However, in a commonly used model of T2D, the db/db mouse, beta-cells have an inbuilt adaptive flexibility enabling them to effectively adjust insulin production rates relative to the metabolic demand. Pancreatic beta-cells from these animals have markedly reduced intracellular insulin stores, yet high rates of (pro)insulin secretion, together with a substantial increase in proinsulin biosynthesis highlighted by expanded rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. However, when the metabolic overload and/or hyperglycemia is normalized, beta-cells from db/db mice quickly restore their insulin stores and normalize secretory function. This demonstrates the beta-cell's adaptive flexibility and indicates that therapeutic approaches applied to encourage beta-cell rest are capable of restoring endogenous beta-cell function. However, mechanisms that regulate beta-cell adaptive flexibility are essentially unknown. To gain deeper mechanistic insight into the molecular events underlying beta-cell adaptive flexibility in db/db beta-cells, we conducted a combined proteomic and post-translational modification specific proteomic (PTMomics) approach on islets from db/db mice and wild-type controls (WT) with or without prior exposure to normal glucose levels. We identified differential modifications of proteins involved in redox homeostasis, protein refolding, K48-linked deubiquitination, mRNA/protein export, focal adhesion, ERK1/2 signaling, and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone signaling, as well as sialyltransferase activity, associated with beta-cell adaptive flexibility. These proteins are all related to proinsulin biosynthesis and processing, maturation of insulin secretory granules, and vesicular trafficking-core pathways involved in the adaptation of insulin production to meet metabolic demand. Collectively, this study outlines a novel and comprehensive global PTMome signaling map that highlights important molecular mechanisms related to the adaptive flexibility of beta-cell function, providing improved insight into disease pathogenesis of T2D.
PXD013990	32265334	Adaptive Evolution of Geobacter sulfurreducens in Coculture with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Geobacter sulfurreducens and Pseudomonas aeruginosa adapted cocultures SWATH-MS	Geobacter, Pseudomonas, SWATH-MS, coculture evolution	Interactions between microorganisms in mixed communities are highly complex, being either syntrophic, neutral, predatory, or competitive. Evolutionary changes can occur in the interaction dynamics between community members as they adapt to coexistence. Here, we report that the syntrophic interaction between Geobacter sulfurreducens and Pseudomonas aeruginosa coculture change in their dynamics over evolutionary time. Specifically, Geobacter sp. dominance increases with adaptation within the cocultures, as determined through quantitative PCR and fluorescence in situ hybridization. This suggests a transition from syntrophy to competition and demonstrates the rapid adaptive capacity of Geobacter spp. to dominate in cocultures with P. aeruginosa Early in coculture establishment, two single-nucleotide variants in the G. sulfurreducensfabI and tetR genes emerged that were strongly selected for throughout coculture evolution with P. aeruginosa phenazine wild-type and phenazine-deficient mutants. Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra-mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) proteomics revealed that the tetR variant cooccurred with the upregulation of an adenylate cyclase transporter, CyaE, and a resistance-nodulation-division (RND) efflux pump notably known for antibiotic efflux. To determine whether antibiotic production was driving the increased expression of the multidrug efflux pump, we tested Pseudomonas-derived phenazine-1-carboxylic acid (PHZ-1-CA) for its potential to inhibit Geobacter growth and drive selection of the tetR and fabI genetic variants. Despite its inhibitory properties, PHZ-1-CA did not drive variant selection, indicating that other antibiotics may drive overexpression of the efflux pump and CyaE or that a novel role exists for these proteins in the context of this interaction.IMPORTANCEGeobacter and Pseudomonas spp. cohabit many of the same environments, where Geobacter spp. often dominate. Both bacteria are capable of extracellular electron transfer (EET) and play important roles in biogeochemical cycling. Although they recently in 2017 were demonstrated to undergo direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) with one another, the genetic evolution of this syntrophic interaction has not been examined. Here, we use whole-genome sequencing of the cocultures before and after adaptive evolution to determine whether genetic selection is occurring. We also probe their interaction on a temporal level and determine whether their interaction dynamics change over the course of adaptive evolution. This study brings to light the multifaceted nature of interactions between just two microorganisms within a controlled environment and will aid in improving metabolic models of microbial communities comprising these two bacteria.
PXD014414	32265444	Quantitative proteomic landscape of metaplastic breast carcinoma pathological subtypes and their relationship to triple-negative tumors. 	Quantitative proteomic landscape of metaplastic breast carcinoma pathological subtypes and their relationship to triple-negative tumors	CCN6, LC-MS/MS shotgun proteomics, WISP3, metaplastic breast carcinoma, precision therapy, tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling, triple-negative breast cancer	Metaplastic breast carcinoma (MBC) is a highly aggressive form of triple-negative cancer (TNBC), defined by the presence of metaplastic components of spindle, squamous, or sarcomatoid histology. The protein profiles underpinning the pathological subtypes and metastatic behavior of MBC are unknown. Using multiplex quantitative tandem mass tag-based proteomics we quantify 5798 proteins in MBC, TNBC, and normal breast from 27 patients. Comparing MBC and TNBC protein profiles we show MBC-specific increases related to epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and extracellular matrix, and reduced metabolic pathways. MBC subtypes exhibit distinct upregulated profiles, including translation and ribosomal events in spindle, inflammation- and apical junction-related proteins in squamous, and extracellular matrix proteins in sarcomatoid subtypes. Comparison of the proteomes of human spindle MBC with mouse spindle (CCN6 knockout) MBC tumors reveals a shared spindle-specific signature of 17 upregulated proteins involved in translation and 19 downregulated proteins with roles in cell metabolism. These data identify potential subtype specific MBC biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
PXD012422	32265614	A comprehensive analysis of sialolith proteins and the clinical implications. 	A comprehensive protein profile analysis from clinical Sialoliths and its practical implications	disease, human sialoliths, protein fraction, salivary duct	BACKGROUND: Sialolithiasis or salivary gland stones are associated with high clinical morbidity. The advances in the treatment of sialolithiasis has been limited, however, by our understanding of their composition. More specifically, there is little information regarding the formation and composition of the protein matrix, the role of mineralogical deposition, or the contributions of cell epithelium and secretions from the salivary glands. A better understanding of these stone characteristics could pave the way for future non-invasive treatment strategies. METHODS: Twenty-nine high-quality ductal stone samples were analyzed. The preparation included successive washings to avoid contamination from saliva and blood. The sialoliths were macerated in liquid nitrogen and the maceration was subjected to a sequential, four-step, protein extraction. The four fractions were pooled together, and a standardized aliquot was subjected to tandem liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LCMS). The data output was subjected to a basic descriptive statistical analysis for parametric confirmation and a subsequent G.O.-KEGG data base functional analysis and classification for biological interpretation. RESULTS: The LC-MS output detected 6934 proteins, 824 of which were unique for individual stones. An example of our sialolith protein data is available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD012422. More important, the sialoliths averaged 53% homology with bone-forming proteins that served as a standard comparison, which favorably compared with 62% homology identified among all sialolith sample proteins. The non-homologous protein fraction had a highly variable protein identity. The G.O.-KEGG functional analysis indicated that extracellular exosomes are a primary cellular component in sialolithiasis. Light and electron microscopy also confirmed the presence of exosomal-like features and the presence of intracellular microcrystals. CONCLUSION: Sialolith formation presents similarities with the hyperoxaluria that forms kidney stones, which suggests the possibility of a common origin. Further verification of a common origin could fundamentally change the way in which lithiasis is studied and treated.
PXD017306	32265830	Exercise Training in Obese Rats Does Not Induce Browning at Thermoneutrality and Induces a Muscle-Like Signature in Brown Adipose Tissue. 	Analysis of the proteome in physiologically humanised' adipose tissue	Adipose, DIA, SWATH, adipocyte, cold, exercise, rat, thermoneutrality	Aim: Exercise training elicits diverse effects on brown (BAT) and white adipose tissue (WAT) physiology in rodents housed below their thermoneutral zone (i.e., 28-32degreesC). In these conditions, BAT is chronically hyperactive and, unlike human residence, closer to thermoneutrality. Therefore, we set out to determine the effects of exercise training in obese animals at 28degreesC (i.e., thermoneutrality) on BAT and WAT in its basal (i.e., inactive) state. Methods: Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 12) were housed at thermoneutrality from 3 weeks of age and fed a high-fat diet. At 12 weeks of age half these animals were randomized to 4-weeks of swim-training (1 h/day, 5 days per week). Following a metabolic assessment interscapular and perivascular BAT and inguinal (I)WAT were taken for analysis of thermogenic genes and the proteome. Results: Exercise attenuated weight gain but did not affect total fat mass or thermogenic gene expression. Proteomics revealed an impact of exercise training on 2-oxoglutarate metabolic process, mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV, carbon metabolism, and oxidative phosphorylation. This was accompanied by an upregulation of multiple proteins involved in skeletal muscle physiology in BAT and an upregulation of muscle specific markers (i.e., Myod1, CkM, Mb, and MyoG). UCP1 mRNA was undetectable in IWAT with proteomics highlighting changes to DNA binding, the positive regulation of apoptosis, HIF-1 signaling and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. Conclusion: Exercise training reduced weight gain in obese animals at thermoneutrality and is accompanied by an oxidative signature in BAT which is accompanied by a muscle-like signature rather than induction of thermogenic genes. This may represent a new, UCP1-independent pathway through which BAT physiology is regulated by exercise training.
PXD017485	32265862	A GMC Oxidoreductase GmcA Is Required for Symbiotic Nitrogen Fixation in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae. 	A GMC Oxidoreductase GmcA is required for symbiotic nitrogen fixation in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. Viciae	Rhizobium leguminosarum, antioxidant and symbiotic gene expression, quantitative proteomics, symbiotic nitrogen fixation, the glucose-methanol-choline oxidoreductase GmcA	GmcA is a FAD-containing enzyme belonging to the GMC (glucose-methanol-choline oxidase) family of oxidoreductases. A mutation in the Rhizobium leguminosarum gmcA gene was generated by homologous recombination. The mutation in gmcA did not affect the growth of R. leguminosarum, but it displayed decreased antioxidative capacity at H2O2 conditions higher than 5 mM. The gmcA mutant strain displayed no difference of glutathione reductase activity, but significantly lower level of the glutathione peroxidase activity than the wild type. Although the gmcA mutant was able to induce the formation of nodules, the symbiotic ability was severely impaired, which led to an abnormal nodulation phenotype coupled to a 30% reduction in the nitrogen fixation capacity. The observation on ultrastructure of 4-week pea nodules showed that the mutant bacteroids tended to start senescence earlier and accumulate poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) granules. In addition, the gmcA mutant was severely impaired in rhizosphere colonization. Real-time quantitative PCR showed that the gmcA gene expression was significantly up-regulated in all the detected stages of nodule development, and statistically significant decreases in the expression of the redoxin genes katG, katE, and ohrB were found in gmcA mutant bacteroids. LC-MS/MS analysis quantitative proteomics techniques were employed to compare differential gmcA mutant root bacteroids in response to the wild type infection. Sixty differentially expressed proteins were identified including 33 up-regulated and 27 down-regulated proteins. By sorting the identified proteins according to metabolic function, 15 proteins were transporter protein, 12 proteins were related to stress response and virulence, and 9 proteins were related to transcription factor activity. Moreover, nine proteins related to amino acid metabolism were over-expressed.
PXD016933	32265951	Response of Midgut Trypsin- and Chymotrypsin-Like Proteases of Helicoverpa armigera Larvae Upon Feeding With Peanut BBI: Biochemical and Biophysical Characterization of PnBBI. 	MALDI MS-MS analysis of Arachis hypogaea seed proteinase inhibitor	Arachis hypogaea, MALDI TOF-TOF, Peanut Bowman-Birk inhibitor (PnBBI), Two-dimensional electrophoresis	Proteinase/Protease inhibitors (PIs) from higher plants play an important role in defense and confer resistance against various insect pests and pathogens. In the present study, Bowman-Birk Inhibitor (BBI) was purified from mature seeds of an interspecific advanced hybrid peanut variety (4368-1) using chromatographic techniques. The biochemical and biophysical characteristics such as low molecular mass, presence of several isoinhibitors and higher-ordered dimer/tetramer, predominance of antiparallel beta-sheets and random coils in secondary structure, reactive sites against trypsin and chymotrypsin, broad spectrum of stability toward extreme pH and temperature along with MALDI TOF-TOF analysis (ProteomeXchange identifier PXD016933) ascertained the purified biomolecule from peanut as BBI (PnBBI). Surface plasmon resonance competitive binding analysis revealed the bifunctional PnBBI is a trypsin specific inhibitor with 1:2 stoichiometry as compared to chymotrypsin. A concentration-dependent self-association tendency of PnBBI was further confirmed by 'red shift' in the far-UV CD spectra. Furthermore, the insecticidal potential of PnBBI against Helicoverpa armigera was assessed by in vitro assays and in vivo feeding experiments. A significant reduction in larval body weight was observed with concomitant attenuation in the activity of midgut trypsin-like proteases of H. armigera (HaTPs) fed on PnBBI supplemented diet. The one and two-dimensional zymography studies revealed the disappearance of several isoforms of HaTP upon feeding with PnBBI. qRT-PCR analysis further suggests the role of PnBBI in not only inhibiting the activity of midgut trypsin and chymotrypsin-like proteases but also in modulating their expression. Taken together, the results provide a biochemical and molecular basis for introgressed resistance in peanut interspecific advanced hybrid variety against H. armigera.
PXD016012	32265962	Primary Metabolism Is Distinctly Modulated by Plant Resistance Inducers in Coffea arabica Leaves Infected by Hemileia vastatrix. 	Primary metabolism is distinctly modulated by plant resistance inducers in Coffea arabica leaves infected by Hemileia vastatrix	Acibenzolar-S-methyl (ASM), Coffea arabica (coffee), Coffee Leaf Rust (CLR), Greenforce CuCa, Physiological parameters, enzymatic activities, plant disease management	Epidemics of coffee leaf rust (CLR) leads to great yield losses and huge depreciation of coffee marketing values, if no control measures are applied. Societal expectations of a more sustainable coffee production are increasingly imposing the replacement of fungicide treatments by alternative solutions. A protection strategy is to take advantage of the plant immune system by eliciting constitutive defenses. Based on such concept, plant resistance inducers (PRIs) have been developed. The Greenforce CuCa formulation, similarly to acibenzolar-S-methyl (ASM), shows promising results in the control of CLR (Hemileia vastatrix) in Coffea arabica cv. Mundo Novo. The molecular mechanisms of PRIs action are poorly understood. In order to contribute to its elucidation a proteomic, physiological (leaf gas-exchange) and biochemical (enzymatic) analyses were performed. Coffee leaves treated with Greenforce CuCa and ASM and inoculation with H. vastatrix were considered. Proteomics revealed that both PRIs lead to metabolic adjustments but, inducing distinct proteins. These proteins were related with photosynthesis, protein metabolism and stress responses. Greenforce CuCa increased photosynthesis and stomatal conductance, while ASM caused a decrease in these parameters. It was further observed that Greenforce CuCa reinforces the redox homeostasis of the leaf, while ASM seems to affect preferentially the secondary metabolism and the stress-related proteins. So, the PRIs prepare the plant to resist CLR but, inducing different defense mechanisms upon pathogen infection. The existence of a link between the primary metabolism and defense responses was evidenced. The identification of components of the plant primary metabolism, essential for plant growth and development that, simultaneously, participate in the plant defense responses can open new perspectives for plant breeding programs.
PXD017429	32266237	Regulating Protein Corona Formation and Dynamic Protein Exchange by Controlling Nanoparticle Hydrophobicity. 	Regulating Protein Corona Formation and Dynamic Protein Exchange by Controlling Nanoparticle Hydrophobicity	hydrophobicity, nano-bio interactions, nanoparticles, protein corona, surface chemistry	Physiochemical properties of engineered nanoparticles (NPs) play a vital role in nano-bio interactions, which are critical for nanotoxicity and nanomedicine research. To understand the effects of NP hydrophobicity on the formation of the protein corona, we synthesized four gold NPs with a continuous change in hydrophobicity ranging from -2.6 to 2.4. Hydrophobic NPs adsorbed 2.1-fold proteins compared to hydrophilic ones. Proteins with small molecular weights (<50 kDa) and negatively charge (PI < 7) constituted the majority of the protein corona, especially for hydrophobic NPs. Moreover, proteins preferred binding to hydrophilic NPs (vitronectin and antithrombin III), hydrophobic NPs (serum albumin and hemoglobin fetal subunit beta), and medium hydrophobic NPs (talin 1 and prothrombin) were identified. Besides, proteins such as apolipoprotein bound to all NPs, did not show surface preference. We also found that there was a dynamic exchange between hard protein corona and solution proteins. Because of such dynamic exchanges, protein-bound NPs could expose their surface in biological systems. Hydrophilic NPs exhibited higher protein exchange rate than hydrophobic NPs. Above understandings have improved our capabilities to modulate protein corona formation by controlling surface chemistry of NPs. These will also help modulate nanotoxicity and develop better nanomedcines.
PXD018321	32267065	New Approaches for Absolute Quantification of Stable-Isotope-Labeled Peptide Standards for Targeted Proteomics Based on a UV Active Tag. 	Quantification of H3K27 methylation using heavy peptides as standards	HEK cells, Histones modifications	Targeted proteomics depends on the availability of stable isotope labeled (SIL) peptide standards, which for absolute protein quantification need to be absolutely quantified. In the present study, three new approaches for absolute quantification of SIL peptides are developed. All approaches rely on a quantification tag (Qtag) with a specific UV absorption. The Qtag is attached to the peptide during synthesis and is removed by tryptic digestion under standard proteomics workflow conditions. While one quantification method (method A) is designed to allow the fast and economic production of absolutely quantified SIL peptides, two other methods (methods B and C) are developed to enable the straightforward re-quantification of SIL peptides after reconstitution to control and monitor known problems related to peptide solubility, precipitation, and adhesion to vials. All methods yield consistent results when compared to each other and when compared to quantification by amino acid analysis. The precise quantitation methods are used to characterize the in vivo specificity of the H3 specific histone methyltransferase EZH2.
PXD011141	32267142	iNrich, Rapid and Robust Method to Enrich N-Terminal Proteome in a Highly Multiplexed Platform. 	N-terminome Method Development (Discovery)	N-terminome	The field of terminal proteomics is limited in that it is optimized for large-scale analysis via multistep processes involving liquid chromatography. Here, we present an integrated N-terminal peptide enrichment method (iNrich) that can handle as little as 25 mug of cell lysate via a single-stage encapsulated solid-phase extraction column. iNrich enables simple, rapid, and reproducible sample processing, treatment of a wide range of protein amounts (25 mug ~ 1 mg), multiplexed parallel sample preparation, and in-stage sample prefractionation using a mixed-anion-exchange filter. We identified ~5000 N-terminal peptides (Nt-peptides) from only 100 mug of human cell lysate including Nt-formyl peptides. Multiplexed sample preparation facilitated quantitative and robust enrichment of N-terminome with dozens of samples simultaneously. We further developed the method to incorporate isobaric tags such as a tandem mass tag (TMT) and used it to discover novel peptides during ER stress analysis. The iNrich facilitated high-throughput N-terminomics and degradomics at a low cost using commercially available reagents and apparatus, without requiring arduous procedures.
PXD013532	32267851	Proteomic analysis of the processes leading to Madurella mycetomatis grain formation in Galleria mellonella larvae. 	Proteomic analysis of the processes leading to Madurella mycetomatis grain formation in Galleria mellonella larvae	Galleria, Grain, Immunity, Infection, Madurella, Mini-model, in vivo screening	Mycetoma is a neglected chronic and granulomatous infection primarily associated with the fungal pathogen Madurella mycetomatis. Characteristic of this infection is the formation of grains. However, the processes leading to grain formation are not known. In this study, we employed a proteomic approach to characterise M. mycetomatis grain formation in Galleria mellonella larvae and map the processes leading to grain formation over time. For this, at 1 day, 3 days and 7 days post-inoculation, proteins from grains and hemolymph were extracted and analysed by label-free mass spectrometry. A total of 87, 51 and 48 M. mycetomatis proteins and 713, 997, 18 G. mellonella proteins were found in grains on day 1, 3 and 7 post-inoculation respectively. M. mycetomatis proteins were mainly involved in cellular metabolic processes and numerous enzymes were encountered. G. mellonella proteins were primarily involved in the nodulation process. The proteins identified were linked to nodulation and grain formation and four steps of grain formation were identified. The results of this proteomic approach could in the future be used to design novel strategies to interfere with mycetoma grain formation and to combat this difficult to treat infection.
PXD016678	32268117	Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Maps Endothelial Metabolic Plasticity in Pathological Angiogenesis. 	Endothelial metabolic transcriptome plasticity in pathological angiogenesis	Angiogenesis, Endothelial cells, choroidal neovascularization, scRNA-seq, transcriptional regulation, tumor angiogenesis	Endothelial cell (EC) metabolism is an emerging target for anti-angiogenic therapy in tumor angiogenesis and choroidal neovascularization (CNV), but little is known about individual EC metabolic transcriptomes. By single-cell RNA sequencing 28,337 murine choroidal ECs (CECs) and sprouting CNV-ECs, we constructed a taxonomy to characterize their heterogeneity. Comparison with murine lung tumor ECs (TECs) revealed congruent marker gene expression by distinct EC phenotypes across tissues and diseases, suggesting similar angiogenic mechanisms. Trajectory inference predicted that differentiation of venous to angiogenic ECs was accompanied by metabolic transcriptome plasticity. ECs displayed metabolic transcriptome heterogeneity during cell-cycle progression and in quiescence. Hypothesizing that conserved genes are important, we used an integrated analysis, based on congruent transcriptome analysis, CEC-tailored genome-scale metabolic modeling, and gene expression meta-analysis in cross-species datasets, followed by in vitro and in vivo validation, to identify SQLE and ALDH18A1 as previously unknown metabolic angiogenic targets.
PXD017524	32268273	TRAF4 acts as a fate checkpoint to regulate the adipogenic differentiation of MSCs by activating PKM2. 	Human BMSCs protein analysis that interact with TRAF4 during adipogenic differentiation	Adipogenic, MSCs, TRAF4	BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) selectively differentiate into adipocytes or osteoblasts, and several molecules control the fate determination of MSCs. Understanding these key checkpoints greatly contributes to the ability to induce specific MSC differentiation for clinical applications. In this study, we aimed to explore whether TNF receptor-associated factor 4 (TRAF4) affects MSC adipogenic differentiation, which we previously reported that could positively regulated the osteogenic differentiation. METHODS: Western blotting and Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction were used to detected the expression pattern of TRAF4 during adipogenic differentiation. Lentivirus was constructed to regulate TRAF4 expression, and oil red O staining and Western blotting were used to assess its role in adipogenesis, which was confirmed in vivo by implanting an MSC-matrigel mixture into nude mice. Western blotting was used to detect the activated signaling pathways, and a specific inhibitor and agonist were used to clear the roles of the key signaling pathways. Additionaly, Co-Immunoprecipitation was conducted to find that Pyruvate kinase isozyme type M2 (PKM2) interacts with TRAF4, and to further explore their binding and functional domains. Finally, an RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation assay and Western blotting were used to detect whether N6-methyladenosine mediates the decreased TRAF4 expression during adipogenic differentiation. FINDINGS: The results demonstrated that TRAF4 negatively regulates MSC adipogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we revealed that TRAF4 binds to PKM2 to activate the kinase activity of PKM2, which subsequently activates beta-catenin signaling and then inhibits adipogenesis. Furthermore, TRAF4 downregulation during adipogenesis is regulated by ALKBH5-mediated N6-methyladenosine RNA demethylation. INTERPRETATION: TRAF4 negatively regulates the adipogenesis of MSCs by activating PKM2 kinase activity, which may act as a checkpoint to fine-tune the balance of adipo-osteogenic differentiation, and suggests that TRAF4 may be a novel target of MSCs in clinical use and may also illuminate the underlying mechanisms of bone metabolic diseases. FUNDING: This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81871750 and 81971518) and the Science and Technology Project of Guangdong Province (2019B02023600 and 2017A020215070).
PXD051258	32268502	iTRAQ-Based Proteomic Analysis of Watermelon Fruits in Response to Cucumber green mottle mosaic virus Infection. 	iTRAQ-based proteome analysis of watermelon fruits in response to Cucumber mottle mosaic virus infection	Cucumber mottle mosaic virus, iTARQ, watermelon fruits	Cucumber green mottle mosaic virus (CGMMV) is an important viral pathogen on cucurbit plants worldwide, which can cause severe fruit decay symptoms on infected watermelon (usually called "watermelon blood flesh"). However, the molecular mechanism of this disease has not been well understood. In this study, we employed the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) technique to analyze the proteomic profiles of watermelon fruits in response to CGMMV infection. A total of 595 differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) were identified, of which 404 were upregulated and 191 were downregulated. Functional annotation analysis showed that these DAPs were mainly involved in photosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, secondary metabolite biosynthesis, plant-pathogen interaction, and protein synthesis and turnover. The accumulation levels of several proteins related to chlorophyll metabolism, pyruvate metabolism, TCA cycle, heat shock proteins, thioredoxins, ribosomal proteins, translation initiation factors, and elongation factors were strongly affected by CGMMV infection. Furthermore, a correlation analysis was performed between CGMMV-responsive proteome and transcriptome data of watermelon fruits obtained in our previous study, which could contribute to comprehensively elucidating the molecular mechanism of "watermelon blood flesh". To confirm the iTRAQ-based proteome data, the corresponding transcripts of ten DAPs were validated by determining their abundance via quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). These results could provide a scientific basis for in-depth understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms underlying CGMMV-induced "watermelon blood flesh", and lay the foundation for further functional exploration and verification of related genes and proteins.
PXD014097	32269263	Autophosphorylation at serine 166 regulates RIP kinase 1-mediated cell death and inflammation. 	Auto-phosphorylation at serine 166 regulates RIP kinase 1 mediated cell death and inflammation	Cell death, Phosphorylation, inflammation	Receptor interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1) regulates cell death and inflammatory responses downstream of TNFR1 and other receptors, and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory and degenerative diseases. RIPK1 kinase activity induces apoptosis and necroptosis, however the mechanisms and phosphorylation events regulating RIPK1-dependent cell death signaling remain poorly understood. Here we show that RIPK1 autophosphorylation at serine 166 plays a critical role for the activation of RIPK1 kinase-dependent apoptosis and necroptosis. Moreover, we show that S166 phosphorylation is required for RIPK1 kinase-dependent pathogenesis of inflammatory pathologies in vivo in four relevant mouse models. Mechanistically, we provide evidence that trans autophosphorylation at S166 modulates RIPK1 kinase activation but is not by itself sufficient to induce cell death. These results show that S166 autophosphorylation licenses RIPK1 kinase activity to induce downstream cell death signaling and inflammation, suggesting that S166 phosphorylation can serve as a reliable biomarker for RIPK1 kinase-dependent pathologies.
PXD014342	32269345	The dental proteome of Homo antecessor. 	A Pleistocene hominin enamel proteome from Homo antecessor	Palaeoproteomics, enamel, hominins, phosphorylation	The phylogenetic relationships between hominins of the Early Pleistocene epoch in Eurasia, such as Homo antecessor, and hominins that appear later in the fossil record during the Middle Pleistocene epoch, such as Homo sapiens, are highly debated(1-5). For the oldest remains, the molecular study of these relationships is hindered by the degradation of ancient DNA. However, recent research has demonstrated that the analysis of ancient proteins can address this challenge(6-8). Here we present the dental enamel proteomes of H. antecessor from Atapuerca (Spain)(9,10) and Homo erectus from Dmanisi (Georgia)(1), two key fossil assemblages that have a central role in models of Pleistocene hominin morphology, dispersal and divergence. We provide evidence that H. antecessor is a close sister lineage to subsequent Middle and Late Pleistocene hominins, including modern humans, Neanderthals and Denisovans. This placement implies that the modern-like face of H. antecessor-that is, similar to that of modern humans-may have a considerably deep ancestry in the genus Homo, and that the cranial morphology of Neanderthals represents a derived form. By recovering AMELY-specific peptide sequences, we also conclude that the H. antecessor molar fragment from Atapuerca that we analysed belonged to a male individual. Finally, these H. antecessor and H. erectus fossils preserve evidence of enamel proteome phosphorylation and proteolytic digestion that occurred in vivo during tooth formation. Our results provide important insights into the evolutionary relationships between H. antecessor and other hominin groups, and pave the way for future studies using enamel proteomes to investigate hominin biology across the existence of the genus Homo.
PXD016151	32271005	Identifying Sialylation Linkages at the Glycopeptide Level by Glycosyltransferase Labeling Assisted Mass Spectrometry (GLAMS). 	Identifying Sialylation Linkages at the Glycopeptide Level by Glycosyltransferase Labeling Assisted Mass Spectrometry	glycopeptides, glycosyltransferase labeling, human serum, site-specific sialylation	Precise assignment of sialylation linkages at the glycopeptide level is of importance in bottom-up glycoproteomics and an indispensable step to understand the function of glycoproteins in pathogen-host interactions and cancer progression. Even though some efforts have been dedicated to the discrimination of alpha2,3/alpha2,6-sialylated isomers, unambiguous identification of sialoglycopeptide isomers is still needed. Herein, we developed an innovative glycosyltransferase labeling assisted mass spectrometry (GLAMS) strategy. After specific enzymatic labeling, oxonium ions from higher-energy C-trap dissociation (HCD) fragmentation of alpha2,3-sailoglycopeptides then generate unique reporters to distinctly differentiate those of alpha2,6-sailoglycopeptide isomers. With this strategy, a total of 1236 linkage-specific sialoglycopeptides were successfully identified from 161 glycoproteins in human serum.
PXD017898	32272809	ARID1A Regulates Transcription and the Epigenetic Landscape via POLE and DMAP1 while ARID1A Deficiency or Pharmacological Inhibition Sensitizes Germ Cell Tumor Cells to ATR Inhibition. 	ARID1A regulates transcription and the epigenetic landscape via POLE and DMAP1 while ARID1A deficiency or pharmacological inhibition sensitizes germ cell tumor cells to ATR inhibition	ARID1A, ATR inhibitors, CRISPR/Cas9, HDAC inhibitors, SWI/SNF-complex, germ cell tumors, molecular therapy	Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are the most common solid malignancies found in young men. Although they generally have high cure rates, metastases, resistance to cisplatin-based therapy, and late toxicities still represent a lethal threat, arguing for the need of new therapeutic options. In a previous study, we identified downregulation of the chromatin-remodeling SWI/SNF complex member ARID1A as a key event in the mode of action of the histone deacetylase inhibitor romidepsin. Additionally, the loss-of-function mutations re-sensitize different tumor types to various drugs, like EZH2-, PARP-, HDAC-, HSP90- or ATR-inhibitors. Thus, ARID1A presents as a promising target for synthetic lethality and combination therapy. In this study, we deciphered the molecular function of ARID1A and screened for the potential of two pharmacological ARID1A inhibitors as a new therapeutic strategy to treat GCTs. By CRISPR/Cas9, we generated ARID1A-deficient GCT cells and demonstrate by mass spectrometry that ARID1A is putatively involved in regulating transcription, DNA repair and the epigenetic landscape via DNA Polymerase POLE and the DNA methyltransferase 1-associated protein DMAP1. Additionally, ARID1A/ARID1A deficiency or pharmacological inhibition increased the efficacy of romidepsin and considerably sensitized GCT cells, including cisplatin-resistant subclones, towards ATR inhibition. Thus, targeting ARID1A in combination with romidepsin and ATR inhibitors presents as a new putative option to treat GCTs.
PXD017187	32275888	OsNSUN2-Mediated 5-Methylcytosine mRNA Modification Enhances Rice Adaptation to High Temperature. 	OsNSUN2-mediated 5-methylcytidine mRNA modification enhances rice adaptation to high-temperature	NSUN, Oryza Sativa, RNA modification, ROS, heat stress, m5C methylation, methyltransferase, photosynthesis, rice	Extreme weather events can cause heat stress that decreases crop production. Recent studies have demonstrated that protein degradation and rRNA homeostasis as well as transcription factors are involved in the thermoresponse in plants. However, how RNA modifications contribute to temperature stress response in plant remains largely unknown. Herein, we identified OsNSUN2 as an RNA 5-methylcytosine (m(5)C) methyltransferase in rice. osnsun2 mutant displayed severe temperature- and light-dependent lesion-mimic phenotypes and heat-stress hypersensitivity. Heat stress enhanced the OsNSUN2-dependent m(5)C modification of mRNAs involved in photosynthesis and detoxification systems, such as beta-OsLCY, OsHO2, OsPAL1, and OsGLYI4, which increased protein synthesis. Furthermore, the photosystem of osnsun2 mutant was vulnerable to high ambient temperature and failed to undergo repair under tolerable heat stress. Thus, OsNSUN2 mutation reduced photosynthesis efficiency and accumulated excessive reactive oxygen species upon heat treatment. Our findings demonstrate an important mechanism of mRNA m(5)C-dependent heat acclimation in rice.
PXD017243	32275959	Impact of Staphylococcus aureus infection on the late lactation goat milk proteome: New perspectives for monitoring and understanding mastitis in dairy goats. 	Impact of Staphylococcus aureus infection on the late lactation goat milk proteome: new perspectives for monitoring and understanding mastitis in dairy goats	Biological dataset, Capra hircus, Label-free proteomics, mastitis, milk	The milk somatic cell count (SCC) is a standard parameter for monitoring intramammary infections (IMI) in dairy ruminants. In goats, however, the physiological increase in SCC occurring in late lactation heavily compromises its reliability. To identify and understand milk protein changes specifically related to IMI, we carried out a shotgun proteomics study comparing high SCC late lactation milk from goats with subclinical Staphylococcus aureus IMI and from healthy goats to low SCC mid-lactation milk from healthy goats. As a result, we detected 52 and 19 differential proteins (DPs) in S. aureus-infected and uninfected late lactation milk, respectively. Unexpectedly, one of the proteins higher in uninfected milk was serum amyloid A. On the other hand, 38 DPs were increased only in S. aureus-infected milk and included haptoglobin and numerous cytoskeletal proteins. Based on STRING analysis, the DPs unique to S. aureus infected milk were mainly involved in defense response, cytoskeleton organization, cell-to-cell, and cell-to-matrix interactions. Being tightly and specifically related to infectious/inflammatory processes, these proteins may hold promise as more reliable markers of IMI than SCC in late lactation goats. SIGNIFICANCE: The biological relevance of our results lies in the increased understanding of the changes specifically related to bacterial infection of the goat udder in late lactation. The DPs present only in S. aureus infected milk may find application as markers for improving the specificity of subclinical mastitis monitoring and detection in dairy goats in late lactation, when other widespread tools such as the SCC lose diagnostic value.
PXD017671	32277923	Functional changes of the liver in the absence of growth hormone (GH) action - Proteomic and metabolomic insights from a GH receptor deficient pig model. 	Proteomic changes of the liver in the absence of growth hormone (GH) actions	Growth hormone, Laron syndrome, Liver, Pig model	OBJECTIVE: The liver is a central target organ of growth hormone (GH), which stimulates the synthesis of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) and affects multiple biochemical pathways. A systematic multi-omics analysis of GH effects in the liver has not been performed. GH receptor (GHR) deficiency is a unique model for studying the consequences of lacking GH action. In this study, we used molecular profiling techniques to capture a broad spectrum of these effects in the liver of a clinically relevant large animal model for Laron syndrome. METHODS: We performed holistic proteome and targeted metabolome analyses of liver samples from 6-month-old GHR-deficient (GHR-KO) pigs and GHR-expressing controls (four males, four females per group). RESULTS: GHR deficiency resulted in an increased abundance of enzymes involved in amino acid degradation, in the urea cycle, and in the tricarboxylic acid cycle. A decreased ratio of long-chain acylcarnitines to free carnitine suggested reduced activity of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A and thus reduced mitochondrial import of fatty acids for beta-oxidation. Increased levels of short-chain acylcarnitines in the liver and in the circulation of GHR-KO pigs may result from impaired beta-oxidation of short-chain fatty acids or from increased degradation of specific amino acids. The concentration of mono-unsaturated glycerophosphocholines was significantly increased in the liver of GHR-KO pigs without morphological signs of steatosis, although the abundances of several proteins functionally linked to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (fetuin B, retinol binding protein 4, several mitochondrial proteins) were increased. Moreover, GHR-deficient liver samples revealed distinct changes in the methionine and glutathione metabolic pathways, in particular, a significantly increased level of glycine N-methyltransferase and increased levels of total and free glutathione. Several proteins revealed a sex-related abundance difference in the control group but not in the GHR-KO group. CONCLUSIONS: Our integrated proteomics/targeted metabolomics study of GHR-deficient and control liver samples from a clinically relevant large animal model identified a spectrum of biological pathways that are significantly altered in the absence of GH action. Moreover, new insights into the role of GH in the sex-related specification of liver functions were provided.
PXD015811	32278992	Effect of granular activated carbon pore-size distribution on biological activated carbon filter performance. 	proteins identified in biological activated carbon (BAC) filter	BAC filter, proteins	Proper granular activated carbon (GAC) selection could improve the performance of biological activated carbon (BAC) filters through a combination of adsorption and biodegradation, while the GACs used in BAC filters are now mainly selected according to adsorption function, ignoring biodegradation. In this study, sand filter effluent obtained from a drinking water treatment plant was fed into continuous-flow bench-scale BAC columns operated in parallel over 245 days to examine the effects of GAC pore-size distribution on BAC filter performance, in terms of the dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and disinfection byproduct (DBP) precursors. A metagenomic analysis indicated that bacterial community structure played an important role in BAC filter performance. A significant correlation was found between metabolism-related proteins and the volume of micro-level macropores based on metaproteomic analysis. It is suggested that the adsorption saturation was dynamic and that adsorption played a role in the performance of the BAC filters throughout the 245-day operating period. Renewed adsorption capacity, or bioregeneration, was driven by bacterial metabolic activity. Such activity largely depended on the organic matter adsorbed by the GAC, in which micro-level macropores, especially those with diameters of 0.2-10 mum, played an important but previously unrecognized role. The results suggest that more attention should be paid to well-developed pores and pore-size distribution in the production and selection of GAC used for full-scale drinking water biofilters.
PXD018661	32282108	Olaparib-Based Photoaffinity Probes for PARP-1 Detection in Living Cells. 	Olaparib based photo-affinity probes for PARP-1 detection in living cells	Olaparib, PARP-1, bioorthogonal chemistry, chemical proteomics, photoaffinity probes	The poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) is a protein from the family of ADP-ribosyltransferases that catalyzes polyadenosine diphosphate ribose (ADPR) formation in order to attract the DNA repair machinery to sites of DNA damage. The inhibition of PARP activity by olaparib can cause cell death, which is of clinical relevance in some tumor types. This demonstrates that quantification of PARP activity in the context of living cells is of great importance. In this work, we present the design, synthesis and biological evaluation of photo-activatable affinity probes inspired by the olaparib molecule that are equipped with a diazirine for covalent attachment upon activation by UV light and a ligation handle for the addition of a reporter group of choice. SDS-PAGE, western blotting and label-free LC-MS/MS quantification analysis show that the probes target the PARP-1 protein and are selectively outcompeted by olaparib; this suggests that they bind in the same enzymatic pocket. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018661.
PXD009384	32282884	Comprehensive proteomic analysis of murine terminal erythroid differentiation. 	Deep proteomic analysis of murine erythroid differentiation	Label free quantification, erythroblast, erythroid differentiation, erythropoiesis, murine	Murine-based cellular models have provided and continue to provide many useful insights into the fundamental mechanisms of erythropoiesis, as well as insights into the pathophysiology of inherited and acquired red cell disorders. Although detailed information on many aspects of these cell models is available, comprehensive proteomic data are lacking. This is a critical knowledge gap, as proteins are effectors of most biologic processes. To address this critical unmet need, proteomes of the murine cell lines Friend erythroleukemia (MEL), GATA1 erythroid (G1ER), and embryonic stem cell-derived erythroid progenitor (MEDEP) and proteomes of cultured murine marrow-derived erythroblasts at different stages of terminal erythroid differentiation were analyzed. The proteomes of MEDEP cells and primary murine erythroid cells were most similar, whereas those of MEL and G1ER cells were more distantly related. We demonstrated that the overall cellular content of histones does not decrease during terminal differentiation, despite strong chromatin condensation. Comparison of murine and human proteomes throughout terminal erythroid differentiation revealed that many noted transcriptomic changes were significantly dampened at the proteome level, especially at the end of the terminal differentiation process. Analysis of the early events associated with induction of terminal differentiation in MEDEP cells revealed divergent alterations in associated transcriptomes and proteomes. These proteomic data are powerful and valuable tools for the study of fundamental mechanisms of normal and disordered erythropoiesis and will be of broad interest to a wide range of investigators for making the appropriate choice of various cell lines to study inherited and acquired diseases of the erythrocyte.
PXD015190	32283030	Improved Integrated Whole Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiles of Severe Acute Pancreatitis. 	Proteome and phosphoproteome profile of acute pancreatitis	DDA, DIA, acute pancreatitis, phosphoproteome	Severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) is caused by complicated biological factors, and revealing its complex pathogenesis by single-target analysis is difficult. Systematic studies have developed slowly because extraction of degradable pancreatic proteins exposed to multiple proteases is challenging. We present integrated whole proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiles of SAP rats based on a modified protein extraction strategy with less protein degradation. Data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and data-independent acquisition (DIA) strategies were applied to select an appropriate method. Total 275 differentially expressed proteins and 757 differentially expressed phosphorylated proteins were identified by DIA-based quantitative proteomics. Several signal transduction pathways, including the AMPK, MAPK, and PI3K-Akt pathways, were enriched in SAP. Up-regulation of phosphorylated proteins involved in the process of TNFA signaling and inflammatory response was also detected in SAP. Our results improve the understanding of SAP development and progression.
PXD017536	32283126	The secretome of skin cancer cells activates the mTOR/MYC pathway in healthy keratinocytes and induces tumorigenic properties. 	The secretome of skin cancer cells HaCat and A431	keratinocytes, mTOR, secretome, squamous cell carcinoma	Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is the most prominent tumor of non-melanoma skin cancers and the most aggressive tumor among keratinocyte carcinoma of the skin, showing a high potential for local invasion and metastasis. The cSCC incidences increased dramatically in recent years and the disease occurs more commonly than any other malignancy. The secretome of cancer cells is currently the focus of many studies in order to identify new marker proteins for different types of cancer and to investigate its influence on the tumor microenvironment. In our study we evaluated whether the secretome of cSCC cells has an impact on keratinocytes, the surrounding tissue cells of cSCC. Therefore, we analyzed and compared the secretome of human A431 cancer cells and of HaCaT keratinocytes by mass spectrometry. In a second experiment, keratinocytes were exposed to the secretome of A431 cells and vice versa and the transcriptome was analyzed by next-generation sequencing. HaCaT cells incubated with A431 conditioned medium revealed a significantly activated mammalian target of rapamycin pathway with a concomitant increase in proliferation and migration. In conclusion, our data demonstrate the impact of the secretome of cancer cells on the transcription machinery of the cells surrounding the tumor, leading to a tumorigenic cell fate.
PXD015833	32284562	An exported kinase family mediates species-specific erythrocyte remodelling and virulence in human malaria. 	An Exported Kinase Family Mediates Species-Specific Erythrocyte Remodelling and Virulence in Human Malaria	FIKK kinases, Malaria, Phosphorylation, Plasmodium, Red blood cell	The most severe form of human malaria is caused by Plasmodium falciparum. Its virulence is closely linked to the increase in rigidity of infected erythrocytes and their adhesion to endothelial receptors, obstructing blood flow to vital organs. Unlike other human-infecting Plasmodium species, P. falciparum exports a family of 18 FIKK serine/threonine kinases into the host cell, suggesting that phosphorylation may modulate erythrocyte modifications. We reveal substantial species-specific phosphorylation of erythrocyte proteins by P. falciparum but not by Plasmodium knowlesi, which does not export FIKK kinases. By conditionally deleting all FIKK kinases combined with large-scale quantitative phosphoproteomics we identified unique phosphorylation fingerprints for each kinase, including phosphosites on parasite virulence factors and host erythrocyte proteins. Despite their non-overlapping target sites, a network analysis revealed that some FIKKs may act in the same pathways. Only the deletion of the non-exported kinase FIKK8 resulted in reduced parasite growth, suggesting the exported FIKKs may instead support functions important for survival in the host. We show that one kinase, FIKK4.1, mediates both rigidification of the erythrocyte cytoskeleton and trafficking of the adhesin and key virulence factor PfEMP1 to the host cell surface. This establishes the FIKK family as important drivers of parasite evolution and malaria pathology.
PXD011929	32284610	Meltome atlas-thermal proteome stability across the tree of life. 	Meltome Atlas - thermal proteome stability across the tree of life	Meltome Atlas, Thermal Proteome Profiling, melting point, protein stability, thermostability	We have used a mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach to compile an atlas of the thermal stability of 48,000 proteins across 13 species ranging from archaea to humans and covering melting temperatures of 30-90 degreesC. Protein sequence, composition and size affect thermal stability in prokaryotes and eukaryotic proteins show a nonlinear relationship between the degree of disordered protein structure and thermal stability. The data indicate that evolutionary conservation of protein complexes is reflected by similar thermal stability of their proteins, and we show examples in which genomic alterations can affect thermal stability. Proteins of the respiratory chain were found to be very stable in many organisms, and human mitochondria showed close to normal respiration at 46 degreesC. We also noted cell-type-specific effects that can affect protein stability or the efficacy of drugs. This meltome atlas broadly defines the proteome amenable to thermal profiling in biology and drug discovery and can be explored online at http://meltomeatlas.proteomics.wzw.tum.de:5003/ and http://www.proteomicsdb.org.
PXD012954	32284990	Targeting the scaffolding role of LSD1 (KDM1A) poises acute myeloid leukemia cells for retinoic acid-induced differentiation. 	Targeting the scaffolding role of LSD1 (KDM1A) poises acute myeloid leukemia cells for Retinoic Acid induced differentiation	Acute Myeloid Leukemia, LSD1, LSD1 inhibitors, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, protein-protein interaction	The histone demethylase LSD1 is deregulated in several tumors, including leukemias, providing the rationale for the clinical use of LSD1 inhibitors. In acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), pharmacological doses of retinoic acid (RA) induce differentiation of APL cells, triggering degradation of the PML-RAR oncogene. APL cells are resistant to LSD1 inhibition or knockout, but targeting LSD1 sensitizes them to physiological doses of RA without altering of PML-RAR levels, and extends survival of leukemic mice upon RA treatment. The combination of RA with LSD1 inhibition (or knockout) is also effective in other non-APL, acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells. Nonenzymatic activities of LSD1 are essential to block differentiation, while RA with targeting of LSD1 releases a differentiation gene expression program, not strictly dependent on changes in histone H3K4 methylation. Integration of proteomic/epigenomic/mutational studies showed that LSD1 inhibitors alter the recruitment of LSD1-containing complexes to chromatin, inhibiting the interaction between LSD1 and the transcription factor GFI1.
PXD015315	32286271	Single-cell transcriptomics identifies an effectorness gradient shaping the response of CD4(+) T cells to cytokines. 	Single-cell transcriptomics identifies an effectorness gradient shaping the response of CD4+ T cells to cytokines	MS/MS, TMT	Naive CD4(+) T cells coordinate the immune response by acquiring an effector phenotype in response to cytokines. However, the cytokine responses in memory T cells remain largely understudied. Here we use quantitative proteomics, bulk RNA-seq, and single-cell RNA-seq of over 40,000 human naive and memory CD4(+) T cells to show that responses to cytokines differ substantially between these cell types. Memory T cells are unable to differentiate into the Th2 phenotype, and acquire a Th17-like phenotype in response to iTreg polarization. Single-cell analyses show that T cells constitute a transcriptional continuum that progresses from naive to central and effector memory T cells, forming an effectorness gradient accompanied by an increase in the expression of chemokines and cytokines. Finally, we show that T cell activation and cytokine responses are influenced by the effectorness gradient. Our results illustrate the heterogeneity of T cell responses, furthering our understanding of inflammation.
PXD018028	32286293	CdbA is a DNA-binding protein and c-di-GMP receptor important for nucleoid organization and segregation in Myxococcus xanthus. 	c-di-GMP-induced conformational dynamics of the c-di-GMP-binding protein A (CdbA) from Myxococcus xanthus	DynamX, HDX-MS, PLGS, c-di-GMP	Cyclic di-GMP (c-di-GMP) is a second messenger that modulates multiple responses to environmental and cellular signals in bacteria. Here we identify CdbA, a DNA-binding protein of the ribbon-helix-helix family that binds c-di-GMP in Myxococcus xanthus. CdbA is essential for viability, and its depletion causes defects in chromosome organization and segregation leading to a block in cell division. The protein binds to the M. xanthus genome at multiple sites, with moderate sequence specificity; however, its depletion causes only modest changes in transcription. The interactions of CdbA with c-di-GMP and DNA appear to be mutually exclusive and residue substitutions in CdbA regions important for c-di-GMP binding abolish binding to both c-di-GMP and DNA, rendering these protein variants non-functional in vivo. We propose that CdbA acts as a nucleoid-associated protein that contributes to chromosome organization and is modulated by c-di-GMP, thus revealing a link between c-di-GMP signaling and chromosome biology.
PXD009335	32289446	Characterisation of the biochemical and cellular roles of native and pathogenic amelogenesis imperfecta mutants of FAM83H. 	The FAM83 family of proteins are anchors for Casein Kinase 1 isoforms through the DUF1669 domain	FAM83 Proteomics	The majority of mutations identified in patients with amelogenesis imperfecta have been mapped to FAM83H. As FAM83H expression is not limited to the enamel, how FAM83H contributes to amelogenesis is still largely unknown. We previously reported that members of the FAM83 family of proteins interact with and regulate the subcellular distribution of the promiscuous serine-threonine protein kinase CK1 family, through their shared N-terminal DUF1669 domains. FAM83H co-localises with CK1 isoforms to speckle-like structures in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. In this report, we show FAM83H, unlike other FAM83 proteins, interacts and colocalises with NCK1/2 tyrosine kinase adaptor proteins. This interaction is mediated by proline-rich motifs within the C-terminus of FAM83H, specifically interacting with the second and third SH3 domains of NCK1/2. Moreover, FAM83H pathogenic AI mutant proteins, which trigger C-terminal truncations of FAM83H, retain their interactions with CK1 isoforms but lose interaction with NCK1/2. These AI mutant FAM83H proteins acquire a nuclear localisation, and recruit CK1 isoforms to the nucleus where CK1 retains its kinase activity. As understanding the constituents of the FAM83H-localised speckles may hold the key to unravelling potential substrates of FAM83H-associated CK1 substrates, we employed a TurboID-based proximity labelling approach and uncovered several proteins including Iporin and BAG3 as potential constituents of the speckles.
PXD005994	32291301	Human Neutrophils Produce Antifungal Extracellular Vesicles against Aspergillus fumigatus. 	Aspergillus fumigatus melanin manipulates the cargo and kinetics of neutrophil-derived extracellular vesicles	Aspergillus fumigatus, antifungal extracellular vesicles, melanin, neutrophils	Polymorphonuclear granulocytes (PMNs) are indispensable for controlling life-threatening fungal infections. In addition to various effector mechanisms, PMNs also produce extracellular vesicles (EVs). Their contribution to antifungal defense has remained unexplored. We reveal that the clinically important human-pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus triggers PMNs to release a distinct set of antifungal EVs (afEVs). Proteome analyses indicated that afEVs are enriched in antimicrobial proteins. The cargo and the release kinetics of EVs are modulated by the fungal strain confronted. Tracking of afEVs indicated that they associated with fungal cells and even entered fungal hyphae, resulting in alterations in the morphology of the fungal cell wall and dose-dependent antifungal effects. To assess as a proof of concept whether the antimicrobial proteins found in afEVs might contribute to growth inhibition of hyphae when present in the fungal cytoplasm, two human proteins enriched in afEVs, cathepsin G and azurocidin, were heterologously expressed in fungal hyphae. This led to reduced fungal growth relative to that of a control strain producing the human retinol binding protein 7. In conclusion, extracellular vesicles produced by neutrophils in response to A. fumigatus infection are able to associate with the fungus, limit growth, and elicit cell damage by delivering antifungal cargo. This finding offers an intriguing, previously overlooked mechanism of antifungal defense against A. fumigatusIMPORTANCE Invasive fungal infections caused by the mold Aspergillus fumigatus are a growing concern in the clinic due to the increasing use of immunosuppressive therapies and increasing antifungal drug resistance. These infections result in high rates of mortality, as treatment and diagnostic options remain limited. In healthy individuals, neutrophilic granulocytes are critical for elimination of A. fumigatus from the host; however, the exact extracellular mechanism of neutrophil-mediated antifungal activity remains unresolved. Here, we present a mode of antifungal defense employed by human neutrophils against A. fumigatus not previously described. We found that extracellular vesicles produced by neutrophils in response to A. fumigatus infection are able to associate with the fungus, limit growth, and elicit cell damage by delivering antifungal cargo. In the end, antifungal extracellular vesicle biology provides a significant step forward in our understanding of A. fumigatus host pathogenesis and opens up novel diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities.
PXD015538	32291305	The WblC/WhiB7 Transcription Factor Controls Intrinsic Resistance to Translation-Targeting Antibiotics by Altering Ribosome Composition. 	WblC- and tetracycline-dependent shifts in the composition of Streptomyces coelicolor ribosomal proteome	Streptomyces coelicolor, WblC, WhiB7, antibiotic stress, ribosome	Bacteria that encounter antibiotics can efficiently change their physiology to develop resistance. This intrinsic antibiotic resistance is mediated by multiple pathways, including a regulatory system(s) that activates specific genes. In some Streptomyces and Mycobacterium spp., the WblC/WhiB7 transcription factor is required for intrinsic resistance to translation-targeting antibiotics. Wide conservation of WblC/WhiB7 within Actinobacteria indicates a critical role of WblC/WhiB7 in developing resistance to such antibiotics. Here, we identified 312 WblC target genes in Streptomyces coelicolor, a model antibiotic-producing bacterium, using a combined analysis of RNA sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing. Interestingly, WblC controls many genes involved in translation, in addition to previously identified antibiotic resistance genes. Moreover, WblC promotes translation rate during antibiotic stress by altering the ribosome-associated protein composition. Our genome-wide analyses highlight a previously unappreciated antibiotic resistance mechanism that modifies ribosome composition and maintains the translation rate in the presence of sub-MIC levels of antibiotics.IMPORTANCE The emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria is one of the top threats in human health. Therefore, we need to understand how bacteria acquire resistance to antibiotics and continue growth even in the presence of antibiotics. Streptomyces coelicolor, an antibiotic-producing soil bacterium, intrinsically develops resistance to translation-targeting antibiotics. Intrinsic resistance is controlled by the WblC/WhiB7 transcription factor that is highly conserved within Actinobacteria, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis Here, identification of the WblC/WhiB7 regulon revealed that WblC/WhiB7 controls ribosome maintenance genes and promotes translation in the presence of antibiotics by altering the composition of ribosome-associated proteins. Also, the WblC-mediated ribosomal alteration is indeed required for resistance to translation-targeting antibiotics. This suggests that inactivation of the WblC/WhiB7 regulon could be a potential target to treat antibiotic-resistant mycobacteria.
PXD018245	32291306	Intercellular Transmission of a Synthetic Bacterial Cytotoxic Prion-Like Protein in Mammalian Cells. 	Intercellular Transmission of a Synthetic Bacterial Cytotoxic Prion-Like Protein in Mammalian Cells.	RepA-WH1, bacterial amyloidosis, intercellular transmission, prion-like, proteotoxic cross-aggregation	RepA is a bacterial protein that builds intracellular amyloid oligomers acting as inhibitory complexes of plasmid DNA replication. When carrying a mutation enhancing its amyloidogenesis (A31V), the N-terminal domain (WH1) generates cytosolic amyloid particles that are inheritable within a bacterial lineage. Such amyloids trigger in bacteria a lethal cascade reminiscent of mitochondrial impairment in human cells affected by neurodegeneration. To fulfill all the criteria to qualify as a prion-like protein, horizontal (intercellular) transmissibility remains to be demonstrated for RepA-WH1. Since this is experimentally intractable in bacteria, here we transiently expressed in a murine neuroblastoma cell line the soluble, barely cytotoxic RepA-WH1 wild type [RepA-WH1(WT)] and assayed its response to exposure to in vitro-assembled RepA-WH1(A31V) amyloid fibers. In parallel, murine cells releasing RepA-WH1(A31V) aggregates were cocultured with human neuroblastoma cells expressing RepA-WH1(WT). Both the assembled fibers and donor-derived RepA-WH1(A31V) aggregates induced, in the cytosol of recipient cells, the formation of cytotoxic amyloid particles. Mass spectrometry analyses of the proteomes of both types of injured cells pointed to alterations in mitochondria, protein quality triage, signaling, and intracellular traffic. Thus, a synthetic prion-like protein can be propagated to, and become cytotoxic to, cells of organisms placed at such distant branches of the tree of life as bacteria and mammalia, suggesting that mechanisms of protein aggregate spreading and toxicity follow default pathways.IMPORTANCE Proteotoxic amyloid seeds can be transmitted between mammalian cells, arguing that the intercellular exchange of prion-like protein aggregates can be a common phenomenon. RepA-WH1 is derived from a bacterial intracellular functional amyloid protein, engineered to become cytotoxic in Escherichia coli Here, we have studied if such bacterial aggregates can also be transmitted to, and become cytotoxic to, mammalian cells. We demonstrate that RepA-WH1 is capable of entering naive cells, thereby inducing the cytotoxic aggregation of a soluble RepA-WH1 variant expressed in the cytosol, following the same trend that had been described in bacteria. These findings highlight the universality of one of the central principles underlying prion biology: No matter the biological origin of a given prion-like protein, it can be transmitted to a phylogenetically unrelated recipient cell, provided that the latter expresses a soluble protein onto which the incoming protein can readily template its amyloid conformation.
PXD010091	32291905	miR-181a regulates p62/SQSTM1, parkin, and protein DJ-1 promoting mitochondrial dynamics in skeletal muscle aging. 	miR-181a Restores Mitochondrial Dynamics in Skeletal Muscle Ageing	Skeletal muscle, miR-181a, mitophagy	One of the key mechanisms underlying skeletal muscle functional deterioration during aging is disrupted mitochondrial dynamics. Regulation of mitochondrial dynamics is essential to maintain a healthy mitochondrial population and prevent the accumulation of damaged mitochondria; however, the regulatory mechanisms are poorly understood. We demonstrated loss of mitochondrial content and disrupted mitochondrial dynamics in muscle during aging concomitant with dysregulation of miR-181a target interactions. Using functional approaches and mito-QC assay, we have established that miR-181a is an endogenous regulator of mitochondrial dynamics through concerted regulation of Park2, p62/SQSTM1, and DJ-1 in vitro. Downregulation of miR-181a with age was associated with an accumulation of autophagy-related proteins and abnormal mitochondria. Restoring miR-181a levels in old mice prevented accumulation of p62, DJ-1, and PARK2, and improved mitochondrial quality and muscle function. These results provide physiological evidence for the potential of microRNA-based interventions for age-related muscle atrophy and of wider significance for diseases with disrupted mitochondrial dynamics.
PXD018271	32292164	Antagonism of PP2A is an independent and conserved function of HIV-1 Vif and causes cell cycle arrest. 	Antagonism of PP2A is an independent and conserved function of HIV-1 Vif and causes cell cycle arrest	HIV, PP2A, VIF	The seminal description of the cellular restriction factor APOBEC3G and its antagonism by HIV-1 Vif has underpinned two decades of research on the host-virus interaction. We recently reported that HIV-1 Vif is also able to degrade the PPP2R5 family of regulatory subunits of key cellular phosphatase PP2A (PPP2R5A-E; Greenwood et al., 2016; Naamati et al., 2019). We now identify amino acid polymorphisms at positions 31 and 128 of HIV-1 Vif which selectively regulate the degradation of PPP2R5 family proteins. These residues covary across HIV-1 viruses in vivo, favouring depletion of PPP2R5A-E. Through analysis of point mutants and naturally occurring Vif variants, we further show that degradation of PPP2R5 family subunits is both necessary and sufficient for Vif-dependent G2/M cell cycle arrest. Antagonism of PP2A by HIV-1 Vif is therefore independent of APOBEC3 family proteins, and regulates cell cycle progression in HIV-infected cells.
PXD017819	32292350	Esculetin Inhibits Cancer Cell Glycolysis by Binding Tumor PGK2, GPD2, and GPI. 	Esculetin inhibits cancer cell glycolysis by binding tumor PGK2, GPD2, and GPI	GPD2/GPI., Keywords: glycolysis, esculetin, microscale thermophoresis, protein inhibitor, transcriptome	Glycolysis can improve the tolerance of tissue cells to hypoxia, and its intermediates provide raw materials for the synthesis and metabolism of the tumor cells. If it can inhibit the activity of glycolysis-related enzymes and control the energy metabolism of tumor, it can be targeted for the treatment of malignant tumor. The target proteins phosphoglycerate kinase 2 (PGK2), glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD2), and glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI) were screened by combining transcriptome, proteomics, and reverse docking. We detected the binding constant of the active compound using microscale thermophoresis (MST). It was found that esculetin bound well with three potential target proteins. Esculetin significantly inhibited the rate of glycolysis, manifested by differences of cellular lactate production and glucose consumption in HepG2 cells with or without esculetin. It was found that GPD2 bound strongly to GPI, revealing the direct interaction between the two glycolysis-related proteins. Animal tests have further demonstrated that esculetin may have anticancer effects by affecting the activity of PGK2, GPD2, and GPI. The results of this study demonstrated that esculetin can affect the glucose metabolism by binding to glycolytic proteins, thus playing an anti-tumor role, and these proteins which have direct interactions are potential novel targets for tumor treatment by esculetin.
PXD015885	32292502	The molecular landscape and microenvironment of salivary duct carcinoma reveal new therapeutic opportunities. 	salivary duct carcinoma genomics	salivary gland	Purpose: Salivary duct carcinoma (SDC) is a rare and aggressive salivary gland cancer subtype with poor prognosis. The mutational landscape of SDC has already been the object of several studies, however little is known regarding the functional genomics and the tumor microenvironment despite their importance in oncology. Our investigation aimed at describing both the functional genomics of SDC and the SDC microenvironment, along with their clinical relevance. Methods: RNA-sequencing (24 tumors), proteomics (17 tumors), immunohistochemistry (22 tumors), and multiplexed immunofluorescence (3 tumors) data were obtained from three different patient cohorts and analyzed by digital imaging and bioinformatics. Adjacent non-tumoral tissue from patients in two cohorts were used in transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. Results: Transcriptomic and proteomic data revealed the importance of Notch, TGF-beta, and interferon-gamma signaling for all SDCs. We confirmed an overall strong desmoplastic reaction by measuring alpha-SMA abundance, the level of which was associated with recurrence-free survival (RFS). Two distinct immune phenotypes were observed: immune-poor SDCs (36%) and immune-infiltrated SDCs (64%). Advanced bioinformatics analysis of the transcriptomic data suggested 72 ligand-receptor interactions occurred in the microenvironment and correlated with the immune phenotype. Among these interactions, three immune checkpoints were validated by immunofluorescence, including CTLA-4/DC86 and TIM-3/galectin-9 interactions, previously unidentified in SDC. Immunofluorescence analysis also confirmed an important immunosuppressive role of macrophages and NK cells, also supported by the transcriptomic data. Conclusions: Together our data significantly increase the understanding of SDC biology and open new perspectives for SDC tumor treatment. Before applying immunotherapy, patient stratification according to the immune infiltrate should be taken into account. Immune-infiltrated SDC could benefit from immune checkpoint-targeting therapy, with novel options such as anti-CTLA-4. Macrophages or NK cells could also be targeted. The dense stroma, i.e., fibroblasts or hyaluronic acid, may also be the focus for immune-poor SDC therapies, e.g. in combination with Notch or TGF-beta inhibitors, or molecules targeting SDC mutations.
PXD017755	32293536	High-throughput proteomics fiber typing (ProFiT) for comprehensive characterization of single skeletal muscle fibers. 	High-throughput Proteomics fiber typing (ProFiT) for comprehensive characterization of single skeletal muscle fibers	Muscle fiber proteomics, MyHC profiling, phosphoproteomics, protein turnover	BACKGROUND: Skeletal muscles are composed of a heterogeneous collection of fiber types with different physiological adaption in response to a stimulus and disease-related conditions. Each fiber has a specific molecular expression of myosin heavy chain molecules (MyHC). So far, MyHCs are currently the best marker proteins for characterization of individual fiber types, and several proteome profiling studies have helped to dissect the molecular signature of whole muscles and individual fibers. METHODS: Herein, we describe a mass spectrometric workflow to measure skeletal muscle fiber type-specific proteomes. To bypass the limited quantities of protein in single fibers, we developed a Proteomics high-throughput fiber typing (ProFiT) approach enabling profiling of MyHC in single fibers. Aliquots of protein extracts from separated muscle fibers were subjected to capillary LC-MS gradients to profile MyHC isoforms in a 96-well format. Muscle fibers with the same MyHC protein expression were pooled and subjected to proteomic, pulsed-SILAC, and phosphoproteomic analysis. RESULTS: Our fiber type-specific quantitative proteome analysis confirmed the distribution of fiber types in the soleus muscle, substantiates metabolic adaptions in oxidative and glycolytic fibers, and highlighted significant differences between the proteomes of type IIb fibers from different muscle groups, including a differential expression of desmin and actinin-3. A detailed map of the Lys-6 incorporation rates in muscle fibers showed an increased turnover of slow fibers compared to fast fibers. In addition, labeling of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes revealed a broad range of Lys-6 incorporation rates, depending on the localization of the subunits within distinct complexes. CONCLUSION: Overall, the ProFiT approach provides a versatile tool to rapidly characterize muscle fibers and obtain fiber-specific proteomes for different muscle groups.
PXD014980	32294438	Molecular Analysis of Clinically Defined Subsets of High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer. 	Molecular analysis of clinically defined subsets of high-grade serous ovarian cancer	Ovarian Cancer, Tissue	The diversity and heterogeneity within high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC), which is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy, is not well understood. Here, we perform comprehensive multi-platform omics analyses, including integrated analysis, and immune monitoring on primary and metastatic sites from highly clinically annotated HGSC samples based on a laparoscopic triage algorithm from patients who underwent complete gross resection (R0) or received neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) with excellent or poor response. We identify significant distinct molecular abnormalities and cellular changes and immune cell repertoire alterations between the groups, including a higher rate of NF1 copy number loss, and reduced chromothripsis-like patterns, higher levels of strong-binding neoantigens, and a higher number of infiltrated T cells in the R0 versus the NACT groups.
PXD013150	32294655	Preoperative Radiotherapy Leads to Significant Differences in the Plasma Protein Profile of Rectal Cancer Patients. 	Label-free proteomics reveal that plasma protein expression differs between colorectal cancer patients according to tumor stage, location, patient survival, preoperative radiotherapy status, or gender.	Human colorectal cancer, Label-free quantitation, UDMSE	INTRODUCTION: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer worldwide, accounting for 10% of the global cancer burden. Rectal cancer accounts for around 30% of CRC cases, and patients with resectable rectal cancer are often given preoperative radiotherapy (PRT) to reduce the rate of local recurrence. The human plasma proteome is an exceptionally complex proteome and ideal to study due to its ability to reflect the presence of diseases such as cancer and the ease of obtaining blood samples. Previous proteomic studies involving rectal cancer patients have mostly focused on the identification of proteins involved in resistance to radiotherapy. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the overall effects of PRT on plasma protein expression in rectal cancer patients, as there is a lack of such studies. METHODS: Here, we have used mass spectrometry and subsequent statistical analyses to analyze the plasma samples of 30 rectal cancer patients according to PRT status (positive or negative) and tumor stage (II or III). RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We discovered 42 proteins whose levels differed significantly between stage II and III rectal cancer patients who did or did not receive PRT. This study shows that PRT, although localized to the pelvis, leads to measurable, tumor stage-specific changes in plasma protein expression. Future studies of plasma proteins should, when relevant, take this into account and be aware of the widespread effects that PRT has on the plasma proteome.
PXD018331	32295845	Control of assembly of extra-axonemal structures: the paraflagellar rod of trypanosomes. 	Control of assembly of extra-axonemal structures: the paraflagellar rod of trypanosomes	extra axonemal structure, flagellum, trypanosomes	Eukaryotic flagella are complex microtubule-based organelles that, in many organisms, contain extra-axonemal structures, such as the outer dense fibres of mammalian sperm and the paraflagellar rod (PFR) of trypanosomes. Flagellum assembly is a complex process occurring across three main compartments, the cytoplasm, the transition zone and the flagellum itself. The process begins with the translation of protein components followed by their sorting and trafficking into the flagellum, transport to the assembly site and incorporation. Flagella are formed from over 500 proteins and the principles governing assembly of the axonemal components are relatively clear. However, the coordination and location of assembly of extra-axonemal structures are less clear. We have discovered two cytoplasmic proteins in Trypanosoma brucei that are required for PFR formation, PFR assembly factors 1 and 2 (PFR-AF1 and PFR-AF2, respectively). Deletion of either PFR-AF1 or PFR-AF2 dramatically disrupted PFR formation and caused a reduction in the amount of major PFR proteins. The existence of cytoplasmic factors required for PFR formation aligns with the concept that processes facilitating axoneme assembly occur across multiple compartments, and this is likely a common theme for extra-axonemal structure assembly.
PXD012667	32296090	Serum albumin cysteine trioxidation is a potential oxidative stress biomarker of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 	Oxidative Stress Biomarker of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus	Human Plasma	Metabolic disorders in T2DM generate multiple sources of free radicals and oxidative stress that accelerate nonenzymatic degenerative protein modifications (DPMs) such as protein oxidation, disrupt redox signaling and physiological function, and remain a major risk factor for clinical diabetic vascular complications. In order to identify potential oxidative biomarkers in the blood plasma of patients with T2DM, we used LC-MS/MS-based proteomics to profile plasma samples from patients with T2DM and healthy controls. The results showed that human serum albumin (HSA) is damaged by irreversible cysteine trioxidation, which can be a potential oxidative stress biomarker for the early diagnosis of T2DM. The quantitative detection of site-specific thiol trioxidation is technically challenging; thus, we developed a sensitive and selective LC-MS/MS workflow that has been used to discover and quantify three unique thiol-trioxidized HSA peptides, ALVLIAFAQYLQQC(SO3H)PFEDHVK (m/z 1241.13), YIC(SO3H)ENQDSISSK (m/z 717.80) and RPC(SO3H)FSALEVDETYVPK (m/z 951.45), in 16 individual samples of healthy controls (n = 8) and individuals with diabetes (n = 8). Targeted quantitative analysis using multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry revealed impairment of the peptides with m/z 1241.13, m/z 717.80 and m/z 951.45, with significance (P < 0.02, P < 0.002 and P < 0.03), in individuals with diabetes. The results demonstrated that a set of three HSA thiol-trioxidized peptides, which are irreversibly oxidatively damaged in HSA in the plasma of patients with T2DM, can be important indicators and potential biomarkers of oxidative stress in T2DM.
PXD016832	32296180	Germline Elongator mutations in Sonic Hedgehog medulloblastoma. 	Elongator complex deficiency in sonic hedgehog medulloblastoma	ELP1, Elongator complex, Meduloblastoma, SHH	Cancer genomics has revealed many genes and core molecular processes that contribute to human malignancies, but the genetic and molecular bases of many rare cancers remains unclear. Genetic predisposition accounts for 5 to 10% of cancer diagnoses in children(1,2), and genetic events that cooperate with known somatic driver events are poorly understood. Pathogenic germline variants in established cancer predisposition genes have been recently identified in 5% of patients with the malignant brain tumour medulloblastoma(3). Here, by analysing all protein-coding genes, we identify and replicate rare germline loss-of-function variants across ELP1 in 14% of paediatric patients with the medulloblastoma subgroup Sonic Hedgehog (MBSHH). ELP1 was the most common medulloblastoma predisposition gene and increased the prevalence of genetic predisposition to 40% among paediatric patients with MBSHH. Parent-offspring and pedigree analyses identified two families with a history of paediatric medulloblastoma. ELP1-associated medulloblastomas were restricted to the molecular SHHalpha subtype(4) and characterized by universal biallelic inactivation of ELP1 owing to somatic loss of chromosome arm 9q. Most ELP1-associated medulloblastomas also exhibited somatic alterations in PTCH1, which suggests that germline ELP1 loss-of-function variants predispose individuals to tumour development in combination with constitutive activation of SHH signalling. ELP1 is the largest subunit of the evolutionarily conserved Elongator complex, which catalyses translational elongation through tRNA modifications at the wobble (U34) position(5,6). Tumours from patients with ELP1-associated MBSHH were characterized by a destabilized Elongator complex, loss of Elongator-dependent tRNA modifications, codon-dependent translational reprogramming, and induction of the unfolded protein response, consistent with loss of protein homeostasis due to Elongator deficiency in model systems(7-9). Thus, genetic predisposition to proteome instability may be a determinant in the pathogenesis of paediatric brain cancers. These results support investigation of the role of protein homeostasis in other cancer types and potential for therapeutic interference.
PXD012321	32296183	A reference map of the human binary protein interactome. 	Proteomics of extracellular vesicle after SDCBP knockout	SDCBP, extracellular vesicle	Global insights into cellular organization and genome function require comprehensive understanding of the interactome networks that mediate genotype-phenotype relationships(1,2). Here we present a human 'all-by-all' reference interactome map of human binary protein interactions, or 'HuRI'. With approximately 53,000 protein-protein interactions, HuRI has approximately four times as many such interactions as there are high-quality curated interactions from small-scale studies. The integration of HuRI with genome(3), transcriptome(4) and proteome(5) data enables cellular function to be studied within most physiological or pathological cellular contexts. We demonstrate the utility of HuRI in identifying the specific subcellular roles of protein-protein interactions. Inferred tissue-specific networks reveal general principles for the formation of cellular context-specific functions and elucidate potential molecular mechanisms that might underlie tissue-specific phenotypes of Mendelian diseases. HuRI is a systematic proteome-wide reference that links genomic variation to phenotypic outcomes.
PXD014923	32298754	TMT-based proteomics analysis reveals the protective effects of Xuefu Zhuyu decoction in a rat model of traumatic brain injury. 	Proteomic of XFZYD Treat Rat Traumatic brain injury with Tandem Mass Tags,We applied TMTs to detect DEPs,and finally screened 105 overlapping DEPs,among them, there were 17 reversal proteins.According to the bio-function analysis	Rat, TBI, TMT, XFZYD	ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Xuefu Zhuyu decoction (XFZYD) is a traditional Chinese herbal prescription. It is effective in treating traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to reveal the possible mechanisms of XFZYD in treating acute TBI through proteomics clues. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Controlled Cortical Impact (CCI) rats were given gavage administration of XFZYD (9 g/kg/d) or distilled water (equal volume) for three days. The Modified Neurological Severity Score (mNSS), brain water content, HE staining, Nissl staining and immunohistochemistry were performed to assess the effects of XFZYD for TBI treatment. Additionally, tandem mass tag-based (TMT) quantitative proteomics technology was applied to detect proteins of brain cortex. Bioinformatics analysis including Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways and Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were used to analyze differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Bioinformatics Analysis Tool for Molecular mechanism of TCM (BATMAN-TCM) was conducted to anchor diseases and pathways. Besides, western blotting and immunofluorescence were exerted to verify related proteins. RESULTS: XFZYD improved neurologic functions, reduced encephaledema and ameliorated cell morphology around the injured area in CCI rats. A total of 6099 proteins were identified with false discovery rate (FDR) < 1%. Overlapping DEPs (105 DEPs) were identified (295 DEPs and 804 DEPs in CCI/Sham or XFZYD/CCI group, respectively). Of these DEPs, 17 were regulated by XFZYD. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the 17 DEPs were predominantly related to platelet activation and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. Next, PLG and CD34 were verified with molecular biotechnology. CONCLUSIONS: XFZYD exerts therapeutic effects through multi-pathways regulation in the treatment of TBI. This work may provide proteomics clues for the continuation of research on TBI treatment with XFZYD.
PXD015243	32299840	Proteaphagy in Mammalian Cells Can Function Independent of ATG5/ATG7. 	Proteome Composition of Lysosomes and Autophagosomes after Proteasome Inhibition	Lysosome, Proteaphagy, Proteasome	The degradation of intra- and extracellular proteins is essential in all cell types and mediated by two systems, the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and the autophagy-lysosome pathway. This study investigates the changes in autophagosomal and lysosomal proteomes upon inhibition of proteasomes by bortezomib (BTZ) or MG132. We find an increased abundance of more than 50 proteins in lysosomes of cells in which the proteasome is inhibited. Among those are dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), beta-Catenin and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzym-A (HMGCoA)-reductase. Because these proteins are known to be degraded by the proteasome they seem to be compensatorily delivered to the autophagosomal pathway when the proteasome is inactivated. Surprisingly, most of the proteins which show increased amounts in the lysosomes of BTZ or MG132 treated cells are proteasomal subunits. Thus an inactivated, non-functional proteasome is delivered to the autophagic pathway. Native gel electrophoresis shows that the proteasome reaches the lysosome intact and not disassembled. Adaptor proteins, which target proteasomes to autophagy, have been described in Arabidopsis, Saccharomyces and upon starvation in mammalians. However, in cell lines deficient of these proteins or their mammalian orthologues, respectively, the transfer of proteasomes to the lysosome is not impaired. Obviously, these proteins do not play a role as autophagy adaptor proteins in mammalian cells. We can also show that chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) does not participate in the proteasome delivery to the lysosomes. In autophagy-related (ATG)-5 and ATG7 deficient cells the delivery of inactivated proteasomes to the autophagic pathway was only partially blocked, indicating the existence of at least two different pathways by which inactivated proteasomes can be delivered to the lysosome in mammalian cells.
PXD018265	32299913	The SHCA adapter protein cooperates with lipoma-preferred partner in the regulation of adhesion dynamics and invadopodia formation. 	The ShcA adapter protein cooperates with LPP to mediate adhesion dynamics and invadopodia formation	ADAPTOR, ADHESION, INVASION, SHCA	SHC adaptor protein (SHCA) and lipoma-preferred partner (LPP) mediate transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta)-induced breast cancer cell migration and invasion. Reduced expression of either protein diminishes breast cancer lung metastasis, but the reason for this effect is unclear. Here, using total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy, we found that TGFbeta enhanced the assembly and disassembly rates of paxillin-containing adhesions in an SHCA-dependent manner through the phosphorylation of the specific SHCA tyrosine residues Tyr-239, Tyr-240, and Tyr-313. Using a BioID proximity labeling approach, we show that SHCA exists in a complex with a variety of actin cytoskeletal proteins, including paxillin and LPP. Consistent with a functional interaction between SHCA and LPP, TGFbeta-induced LPP localization to cellular adhesions depended on SHCA. Once localized to the adhesions, LPP was required for TGFbeta-induced increases in cell migration and adhesion dynamics. Mutations that impaired LPP localization to adhesions (mLIM1) or impeded interactions with the actin cytoskeleton via alpha-actinin (DeltaABD) abrogated migratory responses to TGFbeta. Live-cell TIRF microscopy revealed that SHCA clustering at the cell membrane preceded LPP recruitment. We therefore hypothesize that, in the presence of TGFbeta, SHCA promotes the formation of small, dynamic adhesions by acting as a nucleator of focal complex formation. Finally, we defined a previously unknown function for SHCA in the formation of invadopodia, a process that also required LPP. Our results reveal that SHCA controls the formation and function of adhesions and invadopodia, two key cellular structures required for breast cancer metastasis.
PXD016625	32300172	Integrative analysis of proteomic and metabonomics data for identification of pathways related to Rhizoma Paridis-induced hepatotoxicity. 	proteomic data for identification of pathways related to Rhizoma Paridis-induced hepatotoxicity	Proteomics LC-MS	Clinical reports on hepatotoxicity that arise from Rhizoma Paridis have recently received widespread attention. Because the hepatotoxicity mechanism is little understood, this research strived to investigate the hepatotoxicity mechanism of Rhizoma Paridis extracts based on iTRAQ quantitative proteomics and metabonomics. The extraction solutions were administrated to rats for 7 days by gavage, and the hepatotoxicity was assessed through quantification of biochemical indexes and Oil red O staining. Additionally, the mechanism of hepatotoxicity was investigated by metabonomics based upon GC-MS and iTRAQ quantitative proteomics. The biochemical and histopathological analysis stood out that Rhizoma Paridis extract could induce liver injury, which was proved by the formation of fat droplets, the changes of mitochondrial structure, and biochemical parameters. The iTRAQ proteomics and metabonomics revealed that Rhizoma Paridis-induced hepatotoxicity was chiefly connected with the abnormal activity of mitochondrion function, which brought about oxidative stress injuries and inflammation, finally causing cell apoptosis. Collectively, we have provided previously uncharacterized hepatotoxic mechanism induced by Rhizoma Paridis and a reference to ensure its safe use in the future.
PXD010872	32300339	Substrate-Dependent Fermentation of Bamboo in Giant Panda Gut Microbiomes: Leaf Primarily to Ethanol and Pith to Lactate. 	Giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) gut microbiomes degrade bamboo in distinct patterns: heterofermentation of green leaves to ethanol, lactate and acetate, and homofermentation of yellow pith to lactate	metaproteomics microbial communities fermentation	The giant panda is known worldwide for having successfully moved to a diet almost exclusively based on bamboo. Provided that no lignocellulose-degrading enzyme was detected in panda's genome, bamboo digestion is believed to depend on its gut microbiome. However, pandas retain the digestive system of a carnivore, with retention times of maximum 12 h. Cultivation of their unique gut microbiome under controlled laboratory conditions may be a valid tool to understand giant pandas' dietary habits, and provide valuable insights about what component of lignocellulose may be metabolized. Here, we collected gut microbiomes from fresh fecal samples of a giant panda (either entirely green or yellow stools) and supplied them with green leaves or yellow pith (i.e., the peeled stem). Microbial community composition was substrate dependent, and resulted in markedly different fermentation profiles, with yellow pith fermented to lactate and green leaves to lactate, acetate and ethanol, the latter to strikingly high concentrations (~3%, v:v, within 3.5 h). Microbial metaproteins pointed to hemicellulose rather than cellulose degradation. The alpha-amylase from the giant panda (E.C. 3.2.1.1) was the predominant identified metaprotein, particularly in reactors inoculated with pellets derived from fecal samples (up to 60%). Gut microbiomes assemblage was most prominently impacted by the change in substrate (either leaf or pith). Removal of soluble organics from inocula to force lignocellulose degradation significantly enriched Bacteroides (in green leaf) and Escherichia/Shigella (in yellow pith). Overall, different substrates (either leaf or pith) markedly shaped gut microbiome assemblies and fermentation profiles. The biochemical profile of fermentation products may be an underestimated factor contributing to explain the peculiar dietary behavior of giant pandas, and should be implemented in large scale studies together with short-term lab-scale cultivation of gut microbiomes.
PXD014679	32300641	The Role of a Proprotein Convertase Inhibitor in Reactivation of Tumor-Associated Macrophages and Inhibition of Glioma Growth. 	A peptidomimetic proprotein convertase inhibitor is a potential anti-glioma drug as revealed by biological assays and proteomic studies	3D-culture, glioma, macrophages	Tumors are characterized by the presence of malignant and non-malignant cells, such as immune cells including macrophages, which are preponderant. Macrophages impact the efficacy of chemotherapy and may lead to drug resistance. In this context and based on our previous work, we investigated the ability to reactivate macrophages by using a proprotein convertases inhibitor. Proprotein convertases process immature proteins into functional proteins, with several of them having a role in immune cell activation and tumorigenesis. Macrophages were treated with a peptidomimetic inhibitor targeting furin, PC1/3, PC4, PACE4, and PC5/6. Their anti-glioma activity was analyzed by mass spectrometry-based proteomics and viability assays in 2D and 3D in vitro cultures. Comparison with temozolomide, the drug used for glioma therapy, established that the inhibitor was more efficient for the reduction of cancer cell density. The inhibitor was also able to reactivate macrophages through the secretion of several immune factors with antitumor properties. Moreover, two proteins considered as good glioma patient survival indicators were also identified in 3D cultures treated with the inhibitor. Finally, we established that the proprotein convertases inhibitor has a dual role as an anti-glioma drug and anti-tumoral macrophage reactivation drug. This strategy could be used together with chemotherapy to increase therapy efficacy in glioma.
PXD012842	32302670	Functional association of the stress-responsive LiaH protein and the minimal TatAyCy protein translocase in Bacillus subtilis. 	Cell envelope adaptation and minimal Tat translocation are functionally intertwined	Bacillus, LiaH, LiaRS, TatAy, TatCy, Twin-arginine, translocation	The bacterial twin-arginine (Tat) pathway serves in the exclusive secretion of folded proteins with bound cofactors. While Tat pathways in Gram-negative bacteria and chloroplast thylakoids consist of conserved TatA, TatB and TatC subunits, the Tat pathways of Bacillus species and many other Gram-positive bacteria stand out for their minimalist nature with the core translocase being composed of essential TatA and TatC subunits only. Here we addressed the question whether the minimal TatAyCy translocase of Bacillus subtilis recruits additional cellular components that modulate its activity. To this end, TatAyCy was purified by affinity- and size exclusion chromatography, and interacting co-purified proteins were identified by mass spectrometry. This uncovered the cell envelope stress responsive LiaH protein as an accessory subunit of the TatAyCy complex. Importantly, our functional studies show that Tat expression is tightly trailed by LiaH induction, and that LiaH itself determines the capacity and quality of TatAyCy-dependent protein translocation. In contrast, LiaH has no role in high-level protein secretion via the general secretion (Sec) pathway. Altogether, our observations show that protein translocation by the minimal Tat translocase TatAyCy is tightly intertwined with an adequate bacterial response to cell envelope stress. This is consistent with a critical need to maintain cellular homeostasis, especially when the membrane is widely opened to permit passage of large fully-folded proteins via Tat.
PXD017792	32303640	Structure-function analyses of the G729R 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase genetic variant associated with a disorder of l-lysine metabolism. 	CL-MS OF hE1a (DHTKD1) or G729R hE1a with hE2o	2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase, DHTKD1	2-Oxoadipate dehydrogenase (E1a, also known as DHTKD1, dehydrogenase E1, and transketolase domain-containing protein 1) is a thiamin diphosphate-dependent enzyme and part of the 2-oxoadipate dehydrogenase complex (OADHc) in l-lysine catabolism. Genetic findings have linked mutations in the DHTKD1 gene to several metabolic disorders. These include alpha-aminoadipic and alpha-ketoadipic aciduria (AMOXAD), a rare disorder of l-lysine, l-hydroxylysine, and l-tryptophan catabolism, associated with clinical presentations such as developmental delay, mild-to-severe intellectual disability, ataxia, epilepsy, and behavioral disorders that cannot currently be managed by available treatments. A heterozygous missense mutation, c.2185G-->A (p.G729R), in DHTKD1 has been identified in most AMOXAD cases. Here, we report that the G729R E1a variant when assembled into OADHc in vitro displays a 50-fold decrease in catalytic efficiency for NADH production and a significantly reduced rate of glutaryl-CoA production by dihydrolipoamide succinyl-transferase (E2o). However, the G729R E1a substitution did not affect any of the three side-reactions associated solely with G729R E1a, prompting us to determine the structure-function effects of this mutation. A multipronged systematic analysis of the reaction rates in the OADHc pathway, supplemented with results from chemical cross-linking and hydrogen-deuterium exchange MS, revealed that the c.2185G-->A DHTKD1 mutation affects E1a-E2o assembly, leading to impaired channeling of OADHc intermediates. Cross-linking between the C-terminal region of both E1a and G729R E1a with the E2o lipoyl and core domains suggested that correct positioning of the C-terminal E1a region is essential for the intermediate channeling. These findings may inform the development of interventions to counter the effects of pathogenic DHTKD1 mutations.
PXD017229	32303893	Revisiting high-resolution crystal structure of Phormidium rubidum phycocyanin. 	Revisiting high resolution crystal structure of Phormidium rubidum phycocyanin using X-ray and mass spectrometry	Phormidium_PC sequence	The crystal structure of phycocyanin (pr-PC) isolated from Phormidium rubidum A09DM (P. rubidum) is described at a resolution of 1.17 Aa. Electron density maps derived from crystallographic data showed many clear differences in amino acid sequences when compared with the previously obtained gene-derived sequences. The differences were found in 57 positions (30 in alpha-subunit and 27 in beta-subunit of pr-PC), in which all residues except one (beta145Arg) are not interacting with the three phycocyanobilin chromophores. Highly purified pr-PC was then sequenced by mass spectrometry (MS) using LC-MS/MS. The MS data were analyzed using two independent proteomic search engines. As a result of this analysis, complete agreement between the polypeptide sequences and the electron density maps was obtained. We attribute the difference to multiple genes in the bacterium encoding the phycocyanin apoproteins and that the gene sequencing sequenced the wrong ones. We are not implying that protein sequencing by mass spectrometry is more accurate than that of gene sequencing. The final 1.17 Aa structure of pr-PC allows the chromophore interactions with the protein to be described with high accuracy.
PXD007704	32305317	Proteomic Profiling of Fibroblasts Isolated from Chronic Wounds Identifies Disease-Relevant Signaling Pathways. 	Human cWAF LC-MS/MS           .	chronic wound, skin fibroblasts	Chronic skin wounds accompany many prevalent age-related diseases and are a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Both keratinocytes and fibroblasts contribute to the pathomechanisms in chronic skin wounds. Dysregulated pathways in the epidermis have been extensively studied, but little is known of the influence of dermal fibroblasts on chronic wounding. We isolated fibroblasts from chronic wounds, propagated them in vitro, and analyzed them using proteomic profiling in combination with functional characterization of the proteomic changes. Chronic wound-associated fibroblasts exhibit a unique proteome profile characteristic of lysosomal dysfunction and dysregulated TGFbeta signaling. They display a decreased propensity for cell proliferation and migration, combined with an enhanced ability to contract the extracellular matrix. With these properties, chronic wound-associated fibroblasts actively contribute to pathological inabilities to close wounds and represent potential targets for pharmacological interference for changing cellular phenotypes.
PXD005611	32307447	Tumour kinome re-wiring governs resistance to palbociclib in oestrogen receptor positive breast cancers, highlighting new therapeutic modalities. 	Resistance to Palbociclib requires multiple targetable mechanisms highlighting the potential of drug holidays and drug switching to improve therapeutic outcome	Palbociclib, breast cancer, resistance	Combination of CDK4/6 inhibitors and endocrine therapy improves clinical outcome in advanced oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer, however relapse is inevitable. Here, we show in model systems that other than loss of RB1 few gene-copy number (CN) alterations are associated with irreversible-resistance to endocrine therapy and subsequent secondary resistance to palbociclib. Resistance to palbociclib occurred as a result of tumour cell re-wiring leading to increased expression of EGFR, MAPK, CDK4, CDK2, CDK7, CCNE1 and CCNE2. Resistance altered the ER genome wide-binding pattern, leading to decreased expression of 'classical' oestrogen-regulated genes and was accompanied by reduced sensitivity to fulvestrant and tamoxifen. Persistent CDK4 blockade decreased phosphorylation of tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (TSC2) enhancing EGFR signalling, leading to the re-wiring of ER. Kinome-knockdown confirmed dependency on ERBB-signalling and G2/M-checkpoint proteins such as WEE1, together with the cell cycle master regulator, CDK7. Noteworthy, sensitivity to CDK7 inhibition was associated with loss of ER and RB1 CN. Overall, we show that resistance to CDK4/6 inhibitors is dependent on kinase re-wiring and the redeployment of signalling cascades previously associated with endocrine resistance and highlights new therapeutic networks that can be exploited upon relapse after CDK4/6 inhibition.
PXD016507	32308664	Protein Phosphorylation Dynamics Under Carbon/Nitrogen-Nutrient Stress and Identification of a Cell Death-Related Receptor-Like Kinase in Arabidopsis. 	Phosphoproteomics of Arabidopsis seedlings under carbon/nitrogen-nutrient stress	Phosphoproteomics, carbon/nitrogen-nutrient stress	Nutrient availability, in particular the availability of sugar [carbon (C)] and nitrogen (N), is important for the regulation of plant metabolism and development. In addition to independent utilization of C and N nutrients, plants sense and respond to the balance of C and N nutrients (C/N-nutrient) available to them. High C/low N-nutrient stress has been shown to arrest early post-germinative growth while promoting progression to senescence in Arabidopsis. Although several signaling components of the C/N-nutrient response have been identified, the inclusive molecular basis of plant C/N-nutrient response remains unclear. This proteome analysis evaluated phosphorylation dynamics in response to high C/low N-nutrient stress. Phosphoproteomics under conditions of C/N-nutrient stress showed a global change in the phosphorylation status of proteins, including plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase, carbon and nitrogen metabolic enzymes and signaling proteins such as protein kinases and transcription factors. Further analyses suggested that SNF1-related protein kinase 1 (SnRK1) is involved in primary C/N-nutrient signal mediation via the transcriptional regulation of C/N-regulatory kinases. We also identified a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase with extracellular malectin-like domain, named as LMK1, which was shown to possess cell death induction activity in plant leaves. These results provide important insight into the C/N-nutrient signaling pathways connecting nutrition stress to various cellular and physiological processes in plants.
PXD017513	32309832	Serial in-solution digestion protocol for mass spectrometry-based glycomics and proteomics analysis. 	Serial In-solution digestion protocol for mass spectrometry-based glycomics and proteomics analysis	FASP, Glycomics, Glycosaminoglycans, extracellular matrix., proteoglycans	Advancement in mass spectrometry has revolutionized the field of proteomics. However, there remains a gap in the analysis of protein post-translational modifications (PTMs), particularly for glycosylation. Glycosylation, the most common form of PTM, is involved in most biological processes; thus, analysis of glycans along with proteins is crucial to answering important biologically relevant questions. Of particular interest is the brain extracellular matrix (ECM), which has been called the "final Frontier" in neuroscience, which consists of highly glycosylated proteins. Among these, proteoglycans (PGs) contain large glycan structures called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) that form crucial ECM components, including perineuronal nets (PNNs), shown to be altered in neuropsychiatric diseases. Thus, there is a growing need for high-throughput methods that combine GAG (glycomics) and PGs (proteomics) analysis to unravel the complete biological picture. The protocol presented here integrates glycomics and proteomics to analyze multiple classes of biomolecules. We use a filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) type serial in-solution digestion of GAG classes, including hyaluronan (HA), chondroitin sulfate (CS), and heparan sulfate (HS), followed by peptides. The GAGs and peptides are then cleaned and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). This protocol is an efficient and economical way of processing tissue or cell lysates to isolate various GAG classes and peptides from the same sample. The method is more efficient (single-pot) than available parallel (multi-pot) release methods, and removal of GAGs facilitates the identification of the proteins with higher peptide-coverage than using conventional-proteomics. Overall, we demonstrate a high-throughput & efficient protocol for mass spectrometry-based glycomic and proteomic analysis (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017513).
PXD013757	32311005	MASTL promotes cell contractility and motility through kinase-independent signaling. 	Proteome of Human breast cancer cell line (MDA-MB-231) with sileced MASTL vs NT control	MASTL, SILAC, breast cancer, cell adhesion, cell contractility, cell migration	Microtubule-associated serine/threonine-protein kinase-like (MASTL) is a mitosis-accelerating kinase with emerging roles in cancer progression. However, possible cell cycle-independent mechanisms behind its oncogenicity remain ambiguous. Here, we identify MASTL as an activator of cell contractility and MRTF-A/SRF (myocardin-related transcription factor A/serum response factor) signaling. Depletion of MASTL increased cell spreading while reducing contractile actin stress fibers in normal and breast cancer cells and strongly impairing breast cancer cell motility and invasion. Transcriptome and proteome profiling revealed MASTL-regulated genes implicated in cell movement and actomyosin contraction, including Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 2 (GEF-H1, ARHGEF2) and MRTF-A target genes tropomyosin 4.2 (TPM4), vinculin (VCL), and nonmuscle myosin IIB (NM-2B, MYH10). Mechanistically, MASTL associated with MRTF-A and increased its nuclear retention and transcriptional activity. Importantly, MASTL kinase activity was not required for regulation of cell spreading or MRTF-A/SRF transcriptional activity. Taken together, we present a previously unknown kinase-independent role for MASTL as a regulator of cell adhesion, contractility, and MRTF-A/SRF activity.
PXD018211	32311173	Stoichiometry of two plant glycine decarboxylase complexes and comparison with a cyanobacterial glycine cleavage system. 	Stoichiometry of two plant glycine decarboxylase complexes and comparison with a cyanobacterial glycine cleavage system	Glycine decarboxylase complex, Pea, QconCAT, Quantification, Stoichiometry	The multienzyme glycine cleavage system (GCS) converts glycine and tetrahydrofolate to the one-carbon compound 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, which is of vital importance for most if not all organisms. Photorespiring plant mitochondria contain very high levels of GCS proteins organised as a fragile glycine decarboxylase complex (GDC). The aim of this study is to provide mass spectrometry-based stoichiometric data for the plant leaf GDC and examine whether complex formation could be a general property of the GCS in photosynthesizing organisms. The molar ratios of the leaf GDC component proteins are 1L2 -4P2 -8T-26H and 1L2 -4P2 -8T-20H for pea and Arabidopsis, respectively, as determined by mass spectrometry. The minimum mass of the plant leaf GDC ranges from 1550 to 1650 kDa, which is larger than previously assumed. The Arabidopsis GDC contains four times more of the isoforms GCS-P1 and GCS-L1 in comparison with GCS-P2 and GCS-L2, respectively, whereas the H-isoproteins GCS-H1 and GCS-H3 are fully redundant as indicated by their about equal amounts. Isoform GCS-H2 is not present in leaf mitochondria. In the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, GCS proteins concentrations are low but above the complex formation threshold reported for pea leaf GDC. Indeed, formation of a cyanobacterial GDC from the individual recombinant GCS proteins in vitro could be demonstrated. Presence and metabolic significance of a Synechocystis GDC in vivo remain to be examined but could involve multimers of the GCS H-protein that dynamically crosslink the three GCS enzyme proteins, facilitating glycine metabolism by the formation of multienzyme metabolic complexes. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018211.
PXD016220	32312844	Seminal Plasma Proteome as an Indicator of Sperm Dysfunction and Low Sperm Motility in Chickens. 	Seminal plasma proteome of chicken with different sperm motility	Chicken, label-free, seminal plasma, sperm motility	Molecular mechanisms underlying sperm motility have not been fully explained, particularly in chickens. The objective was to identify seminal plasma proteins associated with chicken sperm motility by comparing the seminal plasma proteomic profile of roosters with low sperm motility (LSM, n = 4) and high sperm motility (HSM, n = 4). Using a label-free MS-based method, a total of 522 seminal plasma proteins were identified, including 386 (~74%) previously reported and 136 novel ones. A total of 70 differentially abundant proteins were defined, including 48 more-abundant, 15 less-abundant, and seven proteins unique to the LSM group (specific proteins). Key secretory proteins like less-abundant adhesion G-protein coupled receptor G2 (ADGRG2) and more-abundant serine peptidase inhibitor Kazal-type 2 (SPINK2) in the LSM suggested that the corresponding secretory tissues played a crucial role in maintaining sperm motility. Majority (80%) of the more-abundant and five specific proteins were annotated to the cytoplasmic domain which might be a result of higher plasma membrane damage and acrosome dysfunction in LSM. Additionally, more-abundant mitochondrial proteins were detected in LSM seminal plasma associated with lower spermatozoa mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) and ATP concentrations. Further studies showed that the spermatozoa might be suffering from oxidative stress, as the amount of spermatozoa reactive oxygen species (ROS) were largely enhanced, seminal malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations were increased, and the seminal plasma total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) were decreased. Our study provides an additional catalogue of chicken seminal plasma proteome and supports the idea that seminal plasma could be as an indicator of spermatozoa physiology. More-abundant of acrosome, mitochondria and sperm cytoskeleton proteins in the seminal plasma could be a marker of sperm dysfunction and loss of motility. The degeneration of spermatozoa caused by the reduced seminal T-AOC and enhanced oxidative stress might be potential determinants of low sperm motility. These results could extend our understanding of sperm motility and sperm physiology regulation.
PXD016555	32312959	Tumor-associated macrophages promote ovarian cancer cell migration by secreting transforming growth factor beta induced (TGFBI) and tenascin C. 	Tumor-associated macrophages promote ovarian cancer cell migration by secreting transforming growth factor beta induced (TGFBI) and tenascin C	ascites, cancer, high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma, tumor microenvironment, tumor-associated macrophages	A central and unique aspect of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC) is the extensive transcoelomic spreading of tumor cell via the peritoneal fluid or malignant ascites. We and others identified tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) in the ascites as promoters of metastasis-associated processes like extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, tumor cell migration, adhesion, and invasion. The precise mechanisms and mediators involved in these functions of TAM are, however, largely unknown. We observed that HGSC migration is promoted by soluble mediators from ascites-derived TAM, which can be emulated by conditioned medium from monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) differentiated in ascites to TAM-like asc-MDM. A similar effect was observed with IL-10-induced alternatively activated m2c-MDM but not with LPS/IFNgamma-induced inflammatory m1-MDM. These observations provided the basis for deconvolution of the complex TAM secretome by performing comparative secretome analysis of matched triplets of different MDM phenotypes with different pro-migratory properties (asc-MDM, m2c-MDM, m1-MDM). Mass spectrometric analysis identified an overlapping set of nine proteins secreted by both asc-MDM and m2c-MDM, but not by m1-MDM. Of these, three proteins, i.e., transforming growth factor beta-induced (TGFBI) protein, tenascin C (TNC), and fibronectin (FN1), have been associated with migration-related functions. Intriguingly, increased ascites concentrations of TGFBI, TNC, and fibronectin were associated with short progression-free survival. Furthermore, transcriptome and secretome analyses point to TAM as major producers of these proteins, further supporting an essential role for TAM in promoting HGSC progression. Consistent with this hypothesis, we were able to demonstrate that the migration-inducing potential of asc-MDM and m2c-MDM secretomes is inhibited, at least partially, by neutralizing antibodies against TGFBI and TNC or siRNA-mediated silencing of TGFBI expression. In conclusion, the present study provides the first experimental evidence that TAM-derived TGFBI and TNC in ascites promote HGSC progression.
PXD016244	32312965	Inhibition of collagen XI alpha 1-induced fatty acid oxidation triggers apoptotic cell death in cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer. 	Inhibition of Collagen XI alpha 1-induced Fatty Acid Oxidation Triggers Apoptotic Cell Death in Cisplatin-Resistant Ovarian Cancer	Collagen, Fatty acid oxidation, Ovarian cancer, TMT	Collagen type XI alpha 1 (COL11A1) is a novel biomarker associated with cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer. However, the mechanisms underlying how COL11A1 confers cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer are poorly understood. We identified that fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) is upregulated by COL11A1 in ovarian cancer cells and that COL11A1-driven cisplatin resistance can be abrogated by inhibition of FAO. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that COL11A1 also enhances the expression of proteins involved in fatty acid synthesis. Interestingly, COL11A1-induced upregulation of fatty acid synthesis and FAO is modulated by the same signaling molecules. We identified that binding of COL11A1 to its receptors, alpha1beta1 integrin and discoidin domain receptor 2 (DDR2), activates Src-Akt-AMPK signaling to increase the expression of both fatty acid synthesis and oxidation enzymes, although DDR2 seems to be the predominant receptor. Inhibition of fatty acid synthesis downregulates FAO despite the presence of COL11A1, suggesting that fatty acid synthesis might be a driver of FAO in ovarian cancer cells. Taken together, our results suggest that COL11A1 upregulates fatty acid metabolism in ovarian cancer cells in a DDR2-Src-Akt-AMPK dependent manner. Therefore, we propose that blocking FAO might serve as a promising therapeutic target to treat ovarian cancer, particularly cisplatin-resistant recurrent ovarian cancers which typically express high levels of COL11A1.
PXD017743	32313009	Molecular profiling of driver events in metastatic uveal melanoma. 	Molecular profiling of driver events in metastatic uveal melanoma	BAP1, metastasis, uveal melanoma	Metastatic uveal melanoma is less well understood than its primary counterpart, has a distinct biology compared to skin melanoma, and lacks effective treatments. Here we genomically profile metastatic tumors and infiltrating lymphocytes. BAP1 alterations are overrepresented and found in 29/32 of cases. Reintroducing a functional BAP1 allele into a deficient patient-derived cell line, reveals a broad shift towards a transcriptomic subtype previously associated with better prognosis of the primary disease. One outlier tumor has a high mutational burden associated with UV-damage. CDKN2A deletions also occur, which are rarely present in primaries. A focused knockdown screen is used to investigate overexpressed genes associated withcopy number gains. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes are in several cases found tumor-reactive, but expression of the immune checkpoint receptors TIM-3, TIGIT and LAG3 is also abundant. This study represents the largest whole-genome analysis of uveal melanoma to date, and presents an updated view of the metastatic disease.
PXD012029	32313017	Fasting inhibits aerobic glycolysis and proliferation in colorectal cancer via the Fdft1-mediated AKT/mTOR/HIF1alpha pathway suppression. 	Fasting, FDFT1 expression and colorectal cancer	Fdft1, colorectal cancer, fasting	Evidence suggests that fasting exerts extensive antitumor effects in various cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the mechanism behind this response is unclear. We investigate the effect of fasting on glucose metabolism and malignancy in CRC. We find that fasting upregulates the expression of a cholesterogenic gene, Farnesyl-Diphosphate Farnesyltransferase 1 (FDFT1), during the inhibition of CRC cell aerobic glycolysis and proliferation. In addition, the downregulation of FDFT1 is correlated with malignant progression and poor prognosis in CRC. Moreover, FDFT1 acts as a critical tumor suppressor in CRC. Mechanistically, FDFT1 performs its tumor-inhibitory function by negatively regulating AKT/mTOR/HIF1alpha signaling. Furthermore, mTOR inhibitor can synergize with fasting in inhibiting the proliferation of CRC. These results indicate that FDFT1 is a key downstream target of the fasting response and may be involved in CRC cell glucose metabolism. Our results suggest therapeutic implications in CRC and potential crosstalk between a cholesterogenic gene and glycolysis.
PXD016735	32313943	Plasticity of nuclear and cytoplasmic stress responses of RNA-binding proteins. 	Enhanced interactome capture (eRIC) of steady-state and arsenite stressed HuH7 cell cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions	arsenite, cell culture	Cellular stress causes multifaceted reactions to trigger adaptive responses to environmental cues at all levels of the gene expression pathway. RNA-binding proteins (RBP) are key contributors to stress-induced regulation of RNA fate and function. Here, we uncover the plasticity of the RNA interactome in stressed cells, differentiating between responses in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm. We applied enhanced RNA interactome capture (eRIC) analysis preceded by nucleo-cytoplasmic fractionation following arsenite-induced oxidative stress. The data reveal unexpectedly compartmentalized RNA interactomes and their responses to stress, including differential responses of RBPs in the nucleus versus the cytoplasm, which would have been missed by whole cell analyses.
PXD015125	32314919	Phosphoproteomics Analysis Reveals a Potential Role of CHK1 in Regulation of Innate Immunity through IRF3. 	Phosphoproteomics analysis of CHK1 inhibitor treatment	CHK1 inhibitor, Phosphoprotomics, SILAC	Inhibitors of checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1), a central component of DNA damage and cell cycle checkpoint response, represent a promising new cancer therapy, but the global cellular functions they regulate through phosphorylation are poorly understood. To elucidate the CHK1-regulated phosphorylation network, we performed a global quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis, which revealed 142 phosphosites whose phosphorylation levels were significantly different following treatment with the CHK1 inhibitor SCH 900776. Bioinformatics analysis identified phosphoproteins that function in ATR-CHK1 signaling, DNA replication, and DNA repair. Furthermore, IRF3 phosphorylation at S173 and S175 was significantly reduced following treatment with SCH 900776. Our findings indicate that the CHK1-dependent regulation of IRF3 phosphorylation at S173 and S175 may play a role in the induction of innate immune response after replication stress or DNA damage, which suggests a potential function of CHK1 in the innate immune response. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015125.
PXD011948	32316190	Characterization of RNP Networks of PUM1 and PUM2 Post-Transcriptional Regulators in TCam-2 Cells, a Human Male Germ Cell Model. 	LC-MS/MS after anti-PUM1 and anti-PUM2 co-immunoprecipitation.	Co-IP, TCam-2, pumilio	Mammalian Pumilio (PUM) proteins are sequence-specific, RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) with wide-ranging roles. They are involved in germ cell development, which has functional implications in development and fertility. Although human PUM1 and PUM2 are closely related to each other and recognize the same RNA binding motif, there is some evidence for functional diversity. To address that problem, first we used RIP-Seq and RNA-Seq approaches, and identified mRNA pools regulated by PUM1 and PUM2 proteins in the TCam-2 cell line, a human male germ cell model. Second, applying global mass spectrometry-based profiling, we identified distinct PUM1- and PUM2-interacting putative protein cofactors, most of them involved in RNA processing. Third, combinatorial analysis of RIP and RNA-Seq, mass spectrometry, and RNA motif enrichment analysis revealed that PUM1 and PUM2 form partially varied RNP-regulatory networks (RNA regulons), which indicate different roles in human reproduction and testicular tumorigenesis. Altogether, this work proposes that protein paralogues with very similar and evolutionary highly conserved functional domains may play divergent roles in the cell by combining with different sets of protein cofactors. Our findings highlight the versatility of PUM paralogue-based post-transcriptional regulation, offering insight into the mechanisms underlying their diverse biological roles and diseases resulting from their dysfunction.
PXD016228	32316263	Potential Role of Circulating Endoglin in Hypertension via the Upregulated Expression of BMP4. 	Circulating endoglin induces hypertension via the upregulated expression of BMP4	BMP4, HHT, TGF-beta, endoglin, endothelial cells, hypertension, preeclampsia	Endoglin is a membrane glycoprotein primarily expressed by the vascular endothelium and involved in cardiovascular diseases. Upon the proteolytic processing of the membrane-bound protein, a circulating form of endoglin (soluble endoglin, sEng) can be released, and high levels of sEng have been observed in several endothelial-related pathological conditions, where it appears to contribute to endothelial dysfunction. Preeclampsia is a multisystem disorder of high prevalence in pregnant women characterized by the onset of high blood pressure and associated with increased levels of sEng. Although a pathogenic role for sEng involving hypertension has been reported in several animal models of preeclampsia, the exact molecular mechanisms implicated remain to be identified. To search for sEng-induced mediators of hypertension, we analyzed the protein secretome of human endothelial cells in the presence of sEng. We found that sEng induces the expression of BMP4 in endothelial cells, as evidenced by their proteomic signature, gene transcript levels, and BMP4 promoter activity. A mouse model of preeclampsia with high sEng plasma levels (sEng(+)) showed increased transcript levels of BMP4 in lungs, stomach, and duodenum, and increased circulating levels of BMP4, compared to those of control animals. In addition, after crossing female wild type with male sEng(+) mice, hypertension appeared 18 days after mating, coinciding with the appearance of high plasma levels of BMP4. Also, serum levels of sEng and BMP4 were positively correlated in pregnant women with and without preeclampsia. Interestingly, sEng-induced arterial pressure elevation in sEng(+) mice was abolished in the presence of the BMP4 inhibitor noggin, suggesting that BMP4 is a downstream mediator of sEng. These results provide a better understanding on the role of sEng in the physiopathology of preeclampsia and other cardiovascular diseases, where sEng levels are increased.
PXD016864	32317297	HIGD2A is Required for Assembly of the COX3 Module of Human Mitochondrial Complex IV. 	HIGD2A is required for assembly of the COX3 module of human mitochondrial complex IV	Cytochrome c oxidase, OXPHOS, assembly factor, hypoxia, respirasome	Assembly factors play a critical role in the biogenesis of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I-IV where they assist in the membrane insertion of subunits, attachment of co-factors, and stabilization of assembly intermediates. The major fraction of complexes I, III and IV are present together in large molecular structures known as respiratory chain supercomplexes. Several assembly factors have been proposed as required for supercomplex assembly, including the hypoxia inducible gene 1 domain family member HIGD2A. Using gene-edited human cell lines and extensive steady state, translation and affinity enrichment proteomics techniques we show that loss of HIGD2A leads to defects in the de novo biogenesis of mtDNA-encoded COX3, subsequent accumulation of complex IV intermediates and turnover of COX3 partner proteins. Deletion of HIGD2A also leads to defective complex IV activity. The impact of HIGD2A loss on complex IV was not altered by growth under hypoxic conditions, consistent with its role being in basal complex IV assembly. Although in the absence of HIGD2A we show that mitochondria do contain an altered supercomplex assembly, we demonstrate it to harbor a crippled complex IV lacking COX3. Our results redefine HIGD2A as a classical assembly factor required for building the COX3 module of complex IV.
PXD016302	32317933	A Brain Signaling Framework for Stress-Induced Depression and Ketamine Treatment Elucidated by Phosphoproteomics. 	A brain signaling framework for stress-induced depression and ketamine treatment elucidated by phosphoproteomics	brain signaling framework, chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), depression, ketamine, phosphoproteomics	Depression is a common affective disorder characterized by significant and persistent low mood. Ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, is reported to have a rapid and durable antidepressant effect, but the mechanisms are unclear. Protein phosphorylation is a post-translational modification that plays a crucial role in cell signaling. Thus, we present a phosphoproteomics approach to investigate the mechanisms underlying stress-induced depression and the rapid antidepressant effect of ketamine in mice. We analyzed the phosphoprotein changes induced by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) and ketamine treatment in two known mood control centers, the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the nucleus accumbens (NAc). We initially obtained >8,000 phosphorylation sites. Quantitation revealed 3,988 sites from the mPFC and 3,196 sites from the NAc. Further analysis revealed that changes in synaptic transmission-related signaling are a common feature. Notably, CUMS-induced changes were reversed by ketamine treatment, as shown by the analysis of commonly altered sites. Ketamine also induced specific changes, such as alterations in synapse organization, synaptic transmission, and enzyme binding. Collectively, our findings establish a signaling framework for stress-induced depression and the rapid antidepressant effect of ketamine.
PXD016513	32318048	Integrated Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analyses of the Interaction Between Chicken Synovial Fibroblasts and Mycoplasma synoviae. 	Proteomic Analysis of the Interaction between Chicken Synovial Fibroblasts and Mycoplasma synoviae	Chicken synovial fibroblasts, Mycoplasma synoviae, TMT	Mycoplasma synoviae (MS), which causes respiratory disease, eggshell apex abnormalities, infectious synovitis, and arthritis in avian species, has become an economically detrimental poultry pathogen in recent years. In China, the disease is characterized by infectious synovitis and arthritis. However, the mechanism by which MS causes infectious synovitis and arthritis remains unknown. Increasing evidence suggests that synovial fibroblasts (SF) play a key role in the pathogenesis of arthritis. Here, both RNA sequencing and tandem mass tag analyses are utilized to compare the response of primary chicken SF (CSF) following infection with and without MS. The host response between non-infected and infected cells was remarkably different at both the mRNA and protein levels. In total, 2,347 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (upregulated, n = 1,137; downregulated, n = 1,210) and 221 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) (upregulated, n = 129; downregulated, n = 92) were detected in the infected group. A correlation analysis indicated a moderate positive correlation between the mRNA and protein level changes in MS-infected CSF. At both the transcriptomic and proteomic levels, 149 DEGs were identified; 88 genes were upregulated and 61 genes were downregulated in CSF. Additionally, part of these regulated genes and their protein products were grouped into seven categories: proliferation-related and apoptosis-related factors, inflammatory mediators, proangiogenic factors, antiangiogenic factors, matrix metalloproteinases, and other arthritis-related proteins. These proteins may be involved in the pathogenesis of MS-induced arthritis in chickens. To our knowledge, this is the first integrated analysis on the mechanism of CSF-MS interactions that combined transcriptomic and proteomic technologies. In this study, many key candidate genes and their protein products related to MS-induced infectious synovitis and arthritis were identified.
PXD013402	32319217	SWATH-Proteomics of Ibrutinib's Action in Myeloid Leukemia Initiating Mutated G-CSFR Signaling. 	SWATH-proteomics analysis of ibrutinib mechanism of action in neutropenia and acute myeloid leukemia initiating mutated granulocyte-colony stimulating factor receptor	32D, BTK inhibitor, G-CSFR, SWATH	PURPOSE: To evaluate cellular protein changes in response to treatment with an approved drug, ibrutinib, in cells expressing normal or mutated granulocyte-colony stimulating factor receptor (G-CSFR). G-CSFR mutations are associated with some hematological malignancies. Previous studies show the efficacy of ibrutinib (a Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitor) in mutated G-CSFR leukemia models but do not address broader signaling mechanisms. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A label-free quantitative proteomics workflow to evaluate the cellular effects of ibrutinib treatment is established. This includes three biological replicates of normal and mutated G-CSFR expressed in a mouse progenitor cell (32D cell line) with and without ibrutinib treatment. RESULTS: The proteomics dataset shows about 1000 unique proteins quantified with nearly 400 significant changes (p value < 0.05), suggesting a highly dynamic network of cellular signaling in response to ibrutinib. Importantly, the dataset is very robust with coefficients of variation for quantitation at 13.0-20.4% resulting in dramatic patterns of protein differences among the groups. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This robust dataset is available for further mining, hypothesis generation, and testing. A detailed understanding of the restructuring of the proteomics signaling cascades by ibrutinib in leukemia biology will provide new avenues to explore its use for other related malignancies.
PXD012772	32319298	BayesENproteomics: Bayesian Elastic Nets for Quantification of Peptidoforms in Complex Samples. 	Serial mixture of peptides from mouse skin and primary human mesenchymal stem cells for protein quant methods benchmarking	BayesENProteomics, MSC, skin	Multivariate regression modelling provides a statistically powerful means of quantifying the effects of a given treatment while compensating for sources of variation and noise, such as variability between human donors and the behavior of different peptides during mass spectrometry. However, methods to quantify endogenous post-translational modifications (PTMs) are typically reliant on summary statistical methods that fail to consider sources of variability such as changes in the levels of the parent protein. Here, we compare three multivariate regression methods, including a novel Bayesian elastic net algorithm (BayesENproteomics) that enables assessment of relative protein abundances while also quantifying identified PTMs for each protein. We tested the ability of these methods to accurately quantify expression of proteins in a mixed-species benchmark experiment and to quantify synthetic PTMs induced by stable isotope labelling. Finally, we extended our regression pipeline to calculate fold changes at the pathway level, providing a complement to commonly used enrichment analysis. Our results show that BayesENproteomics can quantify changes to protein levels across a broad dynamic range while also accurately quantifying PTM and pathway-level fold changes.
PXD017833	32319721	Pyruvate kinase variant of fission yeast tunes carbon metabolism, cell regulation, growth and stress resistance. 	Pyruvate kinase variant of fission yeast reprograms energy metabolism triggering systemic changes in cell regulation, growth and stress resistance	S. pombe, fermentation, glycolysis, oxidative stress	Cells balance glycolysis with respiration to support their metabolic needs in different environmental or physiological contexts. With abundant glucose, many cells prefer to grow by aerobic glycolysis or fermentation. Using 161 natural isolates of fission yeast, we investigated the genetic basis and phenotypic effects of the fermentation-respiration balance. The laboratory and a few other strains depended more on respiration. This trait was associated with a single nucleotide polymorphism in a conserved region of Pyk1, the sole pyruvate kinase in fission yeast. This variant reduced Pyk1 activity and glycolytic flux. Replacing the "low-activity" pyk1 allele in the laboratory strain with the "high-activity" allele was sufficient to increase fermentation and decrease respiration. This metabolic rebalancing triggered systems-level adjustments in the transcriptome and proteome and in cellular traits, including increased growth and chronological lifespan but decreased resistance to oxidative stress. Thus, low Pyk1 activity does not lead to a growth advantage but to stress tolerance. The genetic tuning of glycolytic flux may reflect an adaptive trade-off in a species lacking pyruvate kinase isoforms.
PXD018589	32319746	Selective Maleylation-Directed Isobaric Peptide Termini Labeling for Accurate Proteome Quantification. 	SMD-IPTL 4-plex yeast and BSA-yeast	SMD-IPTL	Isobaric peptide termini labeling (IPTL) is an attractive protein quantification method because it provides more accurate and reliable quantification information than traditional isobaric labeling methods (e.g., TMT and iTRAQ) by making use of the entire fragment-ion series instead of only a single reporter ion. The multiplexing capacity of published IPTL implementations is, however, limited to three. Here, we present a selective maleylation-directed isobaric peptide termini labeling (SMD-IPTL) approach for quantitative proteomics of LysC protein digestion. SMD-IPTL extends the multiplexing capacity to 4-plex with the potential for higher levels of multiplexing using commercially available (13)C/(15)N labeled amino acids. SMD-IPTL is achieved in a one-pot reaction in three consecutive steps: (1) selective maleylation at the N-terminus; (2) labeling at the epsilon-NH2 group of the C-terminal Lys with isotopically labeled acetyl-alanine; (3) thiol Michael addition of an isotopically labeled acetyl-cysteine at the maleylated N-terminus. The isobarically labeled peptides are fragmented into sets of b- and y-ion clusters upon LC-MS/MS, which convey not only sequence information but also quantitative information for every labeling channel and avoid the issue of ratio distortion observed with reporter-ion-based approaches. We demonstrate the SMD-IPTL approach with a 4-plex labeled sample of bovine serum albumin (BSA) and yeast lysates mixed at different ratios. With the use of SMD-IPTL for labeling and a narrow precursor isolation window of 0.8 Th with an offset of -0.2 Th, accurate ratios were measured across a 10-fold mixing range of BSA in a background of yeast proteome. With the yeast proteins mixed at ratios of 1:5:1:5, BSA was detected at ratios of 0.94:2.46:4.70:9.92 when spiked at 1:2:5:10 ratios with an average standard deviation of peptide ratios of 0.34.
PXD014842	32319885	Partial loss of CFIm25 causes learning deficits and aberrant neuronal alternative polyadenylation. 	Partial loss of CFIm25 causes aberrant alternative polyadenylation and learning deficits	CFIm25, Intellectual disability (ID), MeCP2, NUDT21, neurons	We previously showed that NUDT21-spanning copy-number variations (CNVs) are associated with intellectual disability (Gennarino et al., 2015). However, the patients' CNVs also included other genes. To determine if reduced NUDT21 function alone can cause disease, we generated Nudt21(+/-) mice to mimic NUDT21-deletion patients. We found that although these mice have 50% reduced Nudt21 mRNA, they only have 30% less of its cognate protein, CFIm25. Despite this partial protein-level compensation, the Nudt21(+/-) mice have learning deficits, cortical hyperexcitability, and misregulated alternative polyadenylation (APA) in their hippocampi. Further, to determine the mediators driving neural dysfunction in humans, we partially inhibited NUDT21 in human stem cell-derived neurons to reduce CFIm25 by 30%. This induced APA and protein level misregulation in hundreds of genes, a number of which cause intellectual disability when mutated. Altogether, these results show that disruption of NUDT21-regulated APA events in the brain can cause intellectual disability.
PXD017390	32320607	Metaproteomics Reveals Growth Phase-Dependent Responses of an In Vitro Gut Microbiota to Metformin. 	Human gut microbiome cultured over time responsed differently to drug stimulation	drug, metaproteomics, microbiome	Metaproteomics has been used in combination with in vitro gut microbiota models to study drug-microbiome interactions. However, it remains unexplored whether the metaproteomics profile of in vitro gut microbiota responds differently to a same stimulus added at different growth phases. In this study, we cultured a human gut microbiota in 96-deep well plates using a previously validated model. Metformin was added during the lag, log, and stationary phases. Microbiome samples, collected at different time points, were analyzed by optical density and function by metaproteomic. The in vitro gut microbiota growth curves, taxonomy, and functional responses were different depending whether metformin was added during the lag, log, or stationary phases. The addition of drugs at the log phase may lead to the greatest decline of bacterial growth. Metaproteomic analysis suggests that the strength of the metformin effect on the gut microbiome functional profile may be ranked as lag phase > log phase > stationary phase. Metformin added at the lag phase may result in a significantly reduced level of the Clostridiales order and an increased level of the Bacteroides genus, which is different from stimulations during the rest of the growth phases. Metformin may also result in alterations of several pathways, including energy production and conversion, lipid transport and metabolism, translation, ribosomal structure, and biogenesis. Our results indicate that the timing for drug stimulation should be considered when studying drug-microbiome interactions in vitro.
PXD018075	32320651	Dissecting the Roles of Mitochondrial Complex I Intermediate Assembly Complex Factors in the Biogenesis of Complex I. 	Dissecting the Roles of Mitochondrial Complex I Intermediate Assembly (MCIA) Complex Factors in the Biogenesis of Complex I	Assembly Factors, Complex I, MCIA complex, Mitochondria, NADH-ubiquinone dehydrogenase, Oxidative phosphorylation	Mitochondrial complex I harbors 7 mitochondrial and 38 nuclear-encoded subunits. Its biogenesis requires the assembly and integration of distinct intermediate modules, mediated by numerous assembly factors. The mitochondrial complex I intermediate assembly (MCIA) complex, containing assembly factors NDUFAF1, ECSIT, ACAD9, and TMEM126B, is required for building the intermediate ND2-module. The role of the MCIA complex and the involvement of other proteins in the biogenesis of this module is unclear. Cell knockout studies reveal that while each MCIA component is critical for complex I assembly, a hierarchy of stability exists centered on ACAD9. We also identify TMEM186 and COA1 as bona fide components of the MCIA complex with loss of either resulting in MCIA complex defects and reduced complex I assembly. TMEM186 enriches with newly translated ND3, and COA1 enriches with ND2. Our findings provide new functional insights into the essential nature of the MCIA complex in complex I assembly.
PXD018035	32320653	The Autophagy-Initiating Kinase ULK1 Controls RIPK1-Mediated Cell Death. 	ULK1-dependent phosphorylation of RIPK1 within the intermediate domain	RIPK1, ULK1	Autophagy, apoptosis, and necroptosis are stress responses governing the ultimate fate of a cell. However, the crosstalk between these cellular stress responses is not entirely understood. Especially, it is not clear whether the autophagy-initiating kinase ULK1 and the cell-death-regulating kinase RIPK1 are involved in this potential crosstalk. Here, we identify RIPK1 as a substrate of ULK1. ULK1-dependent phosphorylation of RIPK1 reduces complex IIb/necrosome assembly and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced cell death, whereas deprivation of ULK1 enhances TNF-induced cell death. We observe that ULK1 phosphorylates multiple sites of RIPK1, but it appears that especially phosphorylation of S357 within the intermediate domain of RIPK1 mediates this cell-death-inhibiting effect. We propose that ULK1 is a regulator of RIPK1-mediated cell death.
PXD017655	32321762	alpha2,3 linkage of sialic acid to a GPI anchor and an unpredicted GPI attachment site in human prion protein. 	GPI-glycan structures of human Prion from knock-in mice_LC-MSMS	Brain, GPI, GPI side-chain, Prion, knock-in mouse	Prion diseases are transmissible, lethal neurodegenerative disorders caused by accumulation of the aggregated scrapie form of the prion protein (PrP(Sc)) after conversion of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)). The glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor of PrP(C) is involved in prion disease pathogenesis, and especially sialic acid in a GPI side chain reportedly affects PrP(C) conversion. Thus, it is important to define the location and structure of the GPI anchor in human PrP(C) Moreover, the sialic acid linkage type in the GPI side chain has not been determined for any GPI-anchored protein. Here we report GPI glycan structures of human PrP(C) isolated from human brains and from brains of a knock-in mouse model in which the mouse prion protein (Prnp) gene was replaced with the human PRNP gene. LC-electrospray ionization-MS analysis of human PrP(C) from both biological sources indicated that Gly(229) is the omega site in PrP(C) to which GPI is attached. Gly(229) in human PrP(C) does not correspond to Ser(231), the previously reported omega site of Syrian hamster PrP(C) We found that ~41% and 28% of GPI anchors in human PrP(C)s from human and knock-in mouse brains, respectively, have N-acetylneuraminic acid in the side chain. Using a sialic acid linkage-specific alkylamidation method to discriminate alpha2,3 linkage from alpha2,6 linkage, we found that N-acetylneuraminic acid in PrP(C)'s GPI side chain is linked to galactose through an alpha2,3 linkage. In summary, we report the GPI glycan structure of human PrP(C), including the omega-site amino acid for GPI attachment and the sialic acid linkage type.
PXD013915	32321834	Matrix mechanotransduction mediated by thrombospondin-1/integrin/YAP in the vascular remodeling. 	Secretome of rat smooth muscle cells with stretch	SMCs, rat, secretome, stretch	The extracellular matrix (ECM) initiates mechanical cues that activate intracellular signaling through matrix-cell interactions. In blood vessels, additional mechanical cues derived from the pulsatile blood flow and pressure play a pivotal role in homeostasis and disease development. Currently, the nature of the cues from the ECM and their interaction with the mechanical microenvironment in large blood vessels to maintain the integrity of the vessel wall are not fully understood. Here, we identified the matricellular protein thrombospondin-1 (Thbs1) as an extracellular mediator of matrix mechanotransduction that acts via integrin alphavbeta1 to establish focal adhesions and promotes nuclear shuttling of Yes-associated protein (YAP) in response to high strain of cyclic stretch. Thbs1-mediated YAP activation depends on the small GTPase Rap2 and Hippo pathway and is not influenced by alteration of actin fibers. Deletion of Thbs1 in mice inhibited Thbs1/integrin beta1/YAP signaling, leading to maladaptive remodeling of the aorta in response to pressure overload and inhibition of neointima formation upon carotid artery ligation, exerting context-dependent effects on the vessel wall. We thus propose a mechanism of matrix mechanotransduction centered on Thbs1, connecting mechanical stimuli to YAP signaling during vascular remodeling in vivo.
PXD012172	32321912	Proteasome inhibitor-induced modulation reveals the spliceosome as a specific therapeutic vulnerability in multiple myeloma. 	Proteasome inhibitor-induced modulation reveals the spliceosome as a specific therapeutic vulnerability in multiple myeloma	LC-MSMS phosphoproteomics, alternative splicing, cancer, multiple myeloma, proteasome inhibition, splice factor, spliceosome, splicing	Enhancing the efficacy of proteasome inhibitors (PI) is a central goal in myeloma therapy. We proposed that signaling-level responses after PI may reveal new mechanisms of action that can be therapeutically exploited. Unbiased phosphoproteomics after treatment with the PI carfilzomib surprisingly demonstrates the most prominent phosphorylation changes on splicing related proteins. Spliceosome modulation is invisible to RNA or protein abundance alone. Transcriptome analysis after PI demonstrates broad-scale intron retention, suggestive of spliceosome interference, as well as specific alternative splicing of protein homeostasis machinery components. These findings lead us to evaluate direct spliceosome inhibition in myeloma, which synergizes with carfilzomib and shows potent anti-tumor activity. Functional genomics and exome sequencing further support the spliceosome as a specific vulnerability in myeloma. Our results propose splicing interference as an unrecognized modality of PI mechanism, reveal additional modes of spliceosome modulation, and suggest spliceosome targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy in myeloma.
PXD013219	32321914	The Flemmingsome reveals an ESCRT-to-membrane coupling via ALIX/syntenin/syndecan-4 required for completion of cytokinesis. 	The Flemmingsome reveals an ESCRT-to-membrane coupling required for cytokinesis	Cytokinesis, ESCRT machinery, Midbody, QExactive	Cytokinesis requires the constriction of ESCRT-III filaments on the side of the midbody, where abscission occurs. After ESCRT recruitment at the midbody, it is not known how the ESCRT-III machinery localizes to the abscission site. To reveal actors involved in abscission, we obtained the proteome of intact, post-abscission midbodies (Flemmingsome) and identified 489 proteins enriched in this organelle. Among these proteins, we further characterized a plasma membrane-to-ESCRT module composed of the transmembrane proteoglycan syndecan-4, ALIX and syntenin, a protein that bridges ESCRT-III/ALIX to syndecans. The three proteins are highly recruited first at the midbody then at the abscission site, and their depletion delays abscission. Mechanistically, direct interactions between ALIX, syntenin and syndecan-4 are essential for proper enrichment of the ESCRT-III machinery at the abscission site, but not at the midbody. We propose that the ESCRT-III machinery must be physically coupled to a membrane protein at the cytokinetic abscission site for efficient scission, uncovering common requirements in cytokinesis, exosome formation and HIV budding.
PXD015847	32321993	A proximity-labeling proteomic approach to investigate invadopodia molecular landscape in breast cancer cells. 	A proximity-labeling proteomic approach to investigate invadopodia molecular landscape in breast cancer cells	Tks5/SH3PXD2A, actin cytoskeleton, cancer invasion	Metastatic progression is the leading cause of mortality in breast cancer. Invasive tumor cells develop invadopodia to travel through basement membranes and the interstitial matrix. Substantial efforts have been made to characterize invadopodia molecular composition. However, their full molecular identity is still missing due to the difficulty in isolating them. To fill this gap, we developed a non-hypothesis driven proteomic approach based on the BioID proximity biotinylation technology, using the invadopodia-specific protein Tks5alpha fused to the promiscuous biotin ligase BirA* as bait. In invasive breast cancer cells, Tks5alpha fusion concentrated to invadopodia and selectively biotinylated invadopodia components, in contrast to a fusion which lacked the membrane-targeting PX domain (Tks5beta). Biotinylated proteins were isolated by affinity capture and identified by mass spectrometry. We identified known invadopodia components, revealing the pertinence of our strategy. Furthermore, we observed that Tks5 newly identified close neighbors belonged to a biologically relevant network centered on actin cytoskeleton organization. Analysis of Tks5beta interactome demonstrated that some partners bound Tks5 before its recruitment to invadopodia. Thus, the present strategy allowed us to identify novel Tks5 partners that were not identified by traditional approaches and could help get a more comprehensive picture of invadopodia molecular landscape.
PXD014259	32322166	Apolipoprotein A-V Is a Novel Diagnostic and Prognostic Predictor in Pediatric Patients with Sepsis: A Prospective Pilot Study in PICU. 	Serum protein profile in LPS-induced mice model by two-dimensional LC-MS/MS	LPS, Protein profile, mice, serum	BACKGROUND: Sepsis induces the release of lipid mediators, which control both lipid metabolism and inflammation. However, the role of serum apolipoprotein A-V (ApoA5) in sepsis is poorly understood in pediatric patients. METHODS: ApoA5 was screened from serum proteomics profile in lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) treated mice for 2 h, 24 h, and controls. Then, we conducted a prospective pilot study, and patients with sepsis admitted to a pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) were enrolled from January 2018 to December 2018. Serum ApoA5 levels on PICU admission were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Blood samples from 30 healthy children were used as control. The correlation of ApoA5 with the clinical and laboratory parameters was analyzed. Logistic regression analyses and receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis were used to investigate the potential role of serum ApoA5 as a prognostic predictor for PICU mortality in pediatric patients with sepsis. RESULTS: A total of 101 patients with sepsis were enrolled in this study. The PICU mortality rate was 10.9% (11/101). Serum ApoA5 levels on PICU admission were significantly lower in nonsurvivors with sepsis compared with survivors (P = 0.009). In subgroup analysis, serum levels of ApoA5 were significantly correlated with sepsis-associated multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) (P < 0.001), shock (P = 0.002), acute kidney injury (AKI) (P < 0.001), acute liver injury (ALI) (P = 0.002), and gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction (P = 0.012), but not respiratory failure, brain injury, and pathogenic species (all P > 0.05). Correlation analyses revealed significant correlations of serum ApoA5 with Ca(2+) concentration. Remarkably, the area under ROC curve (AUC) for serum ApoA5 levels on PICU admission was 0.789 for prediction of PICU mortality with a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 84.5% at a threshold value of 822 ng/mL. CONCLUSIONS: Serum ApoA5 level is associated with sepsis-associated shock, AKI, ALI, GI dysfunction, or MODS in children. Moreover, the findings of the present study suggest a prognostic value of ApoA5 in children with sepsis, and lower serum ApoA5 than 822 ng/mL predicts worse outcome in pediatric sepsis.
PXD014928	32323346	Alteration of protein homeostasis mediates the interaction of Pseudomonas aeruginosa with Staphylococcus aureus. 	Proteome-wide identification of in vitro substrates for P. aeruginosa ClpXP	ClpXP, Label-free Quantification LC-MS/MS, p.aeruginosa PAO1, proteolytic targets	Intracellular protein degradation is essential for the survival of all organisms, but its role in interspecies interaction is unknown. Here, we show that the ClpXP protease of Pseudomonas aeruginosa suppresses its antimicrobial activity against Staphylococcus aureus, a common pathogen co-isolated with P. aeruginosa from polymicrobial human infections. Using proteomic, biochemical, and molecular genetic approaches, we found that this effect is due to the inhibitory effects of ClpXP on the quorum sensing (QS) of P. aeruginosa, mainly by degrading proteins (e.g., PhnA, PhnB, PqsR, and RhlI) which are critical for the production of QS signal molecules PQS and C4-HSL. We provide evidence that co-culturing with S. aureus induces a decrease in the activity of ClpXP in P. aeruginosa, an effect which was also achieved by the treatment of P. aeruginosa with N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc), a widespread chemical present on the surface of diverse cell types from bacteria to humans. These findings extend the range of biological events governed by proteolytic machinery to microbial community structure, thus also suggesting that a chemical-induced alteration of protein homeostasis is a mechanism for interspecies interactions.
PXD014251	32323921	STAT3-dependent analysis reveals PDK4 as independent predictor of recurrence in prostate cancer. 	STAT3-dependent systems-level analysis reveals PDK4 to be associated with favorable outcome in primary prostate cancer.	FFPE-proteomics, OXPHOS, PDK4, Prostate cancer, STAT3, TCA, TCGA, gene co-expression network analysis, metabolomics, transcriptomics	Prostate cancer (PCa) has a broad spectrum of clinical behavior; hence, biomarkers are urgently needed for risk stratification. Here, we aim to find potential biomarkers for risk stratification, by utilizing a gene co-expression network of transcriptomics data in addition to laser-microdissected proteomics from human and murine prostate FFPE samples. We show up-regulation of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in PCa on the transcriptomic level and up-regulation of the TCA cycle/OXPHOS on the proteomic level, which is inversely correlated to STAT3 expression. We hereby identify gene expression of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4), a key regulator of the TCA cycle, as a promising independent prognostic marker in PCa. PDK4 predicts disease recurrence independent of diagnostic risk factors such as grading, staging, and PSA level. Therefore, low PDK4 is a promising marker for PCa with dismal prognosis.
PXD015720	32324763	Interleukin-10 control of pre-miR155 maturation involves CELF2. 	Identification of pre-miR155 binding proteins from macrophases treated with LPS or LPS + IL10	LCMSMS, pull-down	The anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 (IL10) is essential for attenuating inflammatory responses, which includes reducing the expression of pro-inflammatory microRNA-155 (miR155) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activated macrophages. miR155 enhances the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNFalpha and suppresses expression of anti-inflammatory molecules such as SHIP1 and SOCS1. We previously found that IL10 interfered with the maturation of pre-miR155 to miR155. To understand the mechanism by which IL10 interferes with pre-miR155 maturation we isolated proteins that associate with pre-miR155 in response to IL10 in macrophages. We identified CELF2, a member of the CUGBP, ELAV-Like Family (CELF) family of RNA binding proteins, as protein whose association with pre-miR155 increased in IL10 treated cells. CRISPR-Cas9 mediated knockdown of CELF2 impaired IL10's ability to inhibit both miR155 expression and TNFalpha expression.
PXD018048	32325029	Bump-and-Hole Engineering Identifies Specific Substrates of Glycosyltransferases in Living Cells. 	HepG2 GalNAc-T1/2 Bump-and-hole secretome glycopeptide data	GalNAc-T, HepG2, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, bioorthogonal, click, glycopeptide, liver, secretome	Studying posttranslational modifications classically relies on experimental strategies that oversimplify the complex biosynthetic machineries of living cells. Protein glycosylation contributes to essential biological processes, but correlating glycan structure, underlying protein, and disease-relevant biosynthetic regulation is currently elusive. Here, we engineer living cells to tag glycans with editable chemical functionalities while providing information on biosynthesis, physiological context, and glycan fine structure. We introduce a non-natural substrate biosynthetic pathway and use engineered glycosyltransferases to incorporate chemically tagged sugars into the cell surface glycome of the living cell. We apply the strategy to a particularly redundant yet disease-relevant human glycosyltransferase family, the polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyl transferases. This approach bestows a gain-of-chemical-functionality modification on cells, where the products of individual glycosyltransferases can be selectively characterized or manipulated to understand glycan contribution to major physiological processes.
PXD014307	32325489	UBR5 HECT domain mutations identified in mantle cell lymphoma control maturation of B cells. 	UBR5 in B cell development TMT	TMT UBR5 Bcells Spleen Mouse	Coordination of a number of molecular mechanisms including transcription, alternative splicing, and class switch recombination are required to facilitate development, activation, and survival of B cells. Disruption of these pathways can result in malignant transformation. Recently, next-generation sequencing has identified a number of novel mutations in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients including mutations in the ubiquitin E3 ligase UBR5. Approximately 18% of MCL patients were found to have mutations in UBR5, with the majority of mutations within the HECT domain of the protein that can accept and transfer ubiquitin molecules to the substrate. Determining if UBR5 controls the maturation of B cells is important to fully understand malignant transformation to MCL. To elucidate the role of UBR5 in B-cell maturation and activation, we generated a conditional mutant disrupting UBR5's C-terminal HECT domain. Loss of the UBR5 HECT domain leads to a block in maturation of B cells in the spleen and upregulation of proteins associated with messenger RNA splicing via the spliceosome. Our studies reveal a novel role of UBR5 in B-cell maturation by stabilization of spliceosome components during B-cell development and suggests UBR5 mutations play a role in MCL transformation.
PXD017702	32325903	Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals the Regulatory Networks of Elovl6 on Lipid and Glucose Metabolism in Zebrafish. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis reveals the regulatory networks of elovl6 on lipid and glucose metabolism in zebrafish	Zebrafish, elovl6 knockout, lipid/glucose metabolism, phosphoproteomics, transcriptomics	Elongation of very long-chain fatty acids protein 6 (Elovl6) has been reported to be associated with clinical treatments of a variety of metabolic diseases. However, there is no systematic and comprehensive study to reveal the regulatory role of Elovl6 in mRNA, protein and phosphorylation levels. We established the first knock-out (KO), elovl6(-/-), in zebrafish. Compared with wild type (WT) zebrafish, KO presented significant higher whole-body lipid content and lower content of fasting blood glucose. We utilized RNA-Seq, tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling-based quantitative technology and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to perform the transcriptomic, proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of livers from WT and elovl6(-/-) zebrafish. There were 734 differentially expressed genes (DEG) and 559 differentially expressed proteins (DEP) between elovl6(-/-) and WT zebrafish, identified out of quantifiable 47251 transcripts and 5525 proteins. Meanwhile, 680 differentially expressed phosphoproteins (DEPP) with 1054 sites were found out of quantifiable 1230 proteins with 3604 sites. Gene ontology (GO) and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) analysis of the transcriptomic and proteomic data further suggested that the abnormal lipid metabolism and glucose metabolism in KO were mainly related to fatty acid degradation and biosynthesis, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and PPAR signaling pathway. Based on phosphoproteomic analyses, some kinases critical for lipid metabolism and glucose metabolism, including ribosomal protein S6 kinase (Rps6kb), mitogen-activated protein kinase14 (Mapk14) and V-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 2-like (Akt2l), were identified. These results allowed us to catch on the regulatory networks of elovl6 on lipid and glucose metabolism in zebrafish. To our knowledge, this is the first multi-omic study of zebrafish lacking elovl6, which provides strong datasets to better understand many lipid/glucose metabolic risks posed to human health.
PXD016437	32326232	Moesin (MSN) as a Novel Proteome-Based Diagnostic Marker for Early Detection of Invasive Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma in Liquid-Based Cytology. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of urine liquid biopsy samples in muscle invasive bladder urothelial carcinoma	Cytology, Lable free quantification, Urine, Urothelial Carcinoma	Bladder urothelial carcinoma (BUC) is the most lethal malignancy of the urinary tract. Treatment for the disease highly depends on the invasiveness of cancer cells. Therefore, a predictive biomarker needs to be identified for invasive BUC. In this study, we employed proteomics methods on urine liquid-based cytology (LBC) samples and a BUC cell line library to determine a novel predictive biomarker for invasive BUC. Furthermore, an in vitro three-dimensional (3D) invasion study for biological significance and diagnostic validation through immunocytochemistry (ICC) were also performed. The proteomic analysis suggested moesin (MSN) as a potential biomarker to predict the invasiveness of BUC. The in vitro 3D invasion study showed that inhibition of MSN significantly decreased invasiveness in BUC cell lines. Further validation using ICC ultimately confirmed moesin (MSN) as a potential biomarker to predict the invasiveness of BUC (p = 0.023). In conclusion, we suggest moesin as a potential diagnostic marker for early detection of BUC with invasion in LBC and as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD016211	32327453	Human Herpesvirus-6 Reactivation, Mitochondrial Fragmentation, and the Coordination of Antiviral and Metabolic Phenotypes in Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. 	Protemics of human cell during HHV-6A reactivation	HHV-6A, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), viral reactivation	Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a multifactorial disorder with many possible triggers. Human herpesvirus (HHV)-6 and HHV-7 are two infectious triggers for which evidence has been growing. To understand possible causative role of HHV-6 in ME/CFS, metabolic and antiviral phenotypes of U2-OS cells were studied with and without chromosomally integrated HHV-6 and with or without virus reactivation using the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin-A. Proteomic analysis was conducted by pulsed stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture analysis. Antiviral properties that were induced by HHV-6 transactivation were studied in virus-naive A549 cells challenged by infection with influenza-A (H1N1) or HSV-1. Mitochondria were fragmented and 1-carbon metabolism, dUTPase, and thymidylate synthase were strongly induced by HHV-6 reactivation, whereas superoxide dismutase 2 and proteins required for mitochondrial oxidation of fatty acid, amino acid, and glucose metabolism, including pyruvate dehydrogenase, were strongly inhibited. Adoptive transfer of U2-OS cell supernatants after reactivation of HHV-6A led to an antiviral state in A549 cells that prevented superinfection with influenza-A and HSV-1. Adoptive transfer of serum from 10 patients with ME/CFS produced a similar fragmentation of mitochondria and the associated antiviral state in the A549 cell assay. In conclusion, HHV-6 reactivation in ME/CFS patients activates a multisystem, proinflammatory, cell danger response that protects against certain RNA and DNA virus infections but comes at the cost of mitochondrial fragmentation and severely compromised energy metabolism.
PXD017804	32328356	Proteomic profiling analysis of postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteopenia identifies potential proteins associated with low bone mineral density. 	LC-MSMS of postmenopausal with low BMD	Low BMD, Plasma, Postmenopausal	Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) is a major global public health concern and older women are more susceptible to experiencing fragility fractures. Our study investigated the associations between circulating proteins with bone mineral density (BMD) in postmenopausal women with or without low BMD (osteoporosis and osteopenia) using a tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling proteomic experiment and parallel reaction monitoring testing. Across all plasma samples, we quantitatively measured 1,092 proteins, and the OP and normal control (NC) samples were differentiated by principal component analysis and a partial least squares-discrimination analysis model based on the protein profiling data. The differentially abundant proteins between the low BMD and NC samples mostly exhibited binding, molecular function regulator, transporter and molecular transducer activity, and were involved in metabolic and cellular processes, stimulus response, biological regulation, immune system processes and so forth. TMT analysis and RRM validation indicated that the expression of protein Lysozyme C (P61626) was negatively related to BMD, while the expression of proteins Glucosidase (A0A024R592) and Protein disulfideisomerase A5 (Q14554) was positively related to BMD values. Collectively, our results suggest that postmenopausal women with low BMD have a different proteomic profile or signature. Protein alterations may play an important role in the pathogenesis of PMOP, and they may act as novel biomarkers and targets of therapeutic agents for this disease.
PXD018058	32328487	O2-Tuned Protein Synthesis Machinery in Escherichia coli-Based Cell-Free System. 	Escherichia coli-based cell-free reactions in different oxygen concentrations	Cell-free reaction, Different oxygen concentrations, HPLC-MS/MS, Protein synthesis	Involved in most aerobic biochemical processes, oxygen affects cellular functions, and organism behaviors. Protein synthesis, as the underlying biological process, is unavoidably affected by the regulation of oxygen delivery and utilization. Bypassing the cell wall, cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) systems are well adopted for the precise oxygen regulation analysis of bioprocesses. Here a reliable flow platform was developed for measuring and analyzing the oxygen regulation on the protein synthesis processes by combining Escherichia coli-based CFPS systems and a tube-in-tube reactor. This platform allows protein synthesis reactions conducted in precisely controlled oxygen concentrations. For analysis of the intrinsic role of oxygen in protein synthesis, O2-tuned CFPS systems were explored with transcription-translation related parameters (transcripts, energy, reactive oxygen species, and proteomic pathway analysis). It was found that 2% of oxygen was the minimum requirement for protein synthesis. There was translation-related protein degradation in the high oxygen condition leading to a reduction. By combining the precise gas level controlling and open biosystems, this platform is also potential for fundamental understanding and clinical applications by diverse gas regulation in biological processes.
PXD016815	32328640	Reactive oxygen species triggers unconventional secretion of antioxidants and Acb1. 	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production triggers unconventional secretion of antioxidant enzymes	ROS	Nutrient deprivation triggers the release of signal-sequence-lacking Acb1 and the antioxidant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). We now report that secreted SOD1 is functionally active and accompanied by export of other antioxidant enzymes such as thioredoxins (Trx1 and Trx2) and peroxiredoxin Ahp1 in a Grh1-dependent manner. Our data reveal that starvation leads to production of nontoxic levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Treatment of cells with N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which sequesters ROS, prevents antioxidants and Acb1 secretion. Starved cells lacking Grh1 are metabolically active, but defective in their ability to regrow upon return to growth conditions. Treatment with NAC restored the Grh1-dependent effect of starvation on cell growth. In sum, starvation triggers ROS production and cells respond by secreting antioxidants and the lipogenic signaling protein Acb1. We suggest that starvation-specific unconventional secretion of antioxidants and Acb1-like activities maintain cells in a form necessary for growth upon their eventual return to normal conditions.
PXD014329	32328642	Adenoviral protein E4orf4 interacts with the polarity protein Par3 to induce nuclear rupture and tumor cell death. 	Targeting of Tumor Cells by the Adenovirus E4orf4 protein via Par3 Polarity Protein-Regulated Nuclear Envelope Rupture	E4orf4, actin, lamin A/C, live cell dynamics, nuclear bleb, polarity proteins	The tumor cell-selective killing activity of the adenovirus type 2 early region 4 ORF4 (E4orf4) protein is poorly defined at the molecular level. Here, we show that the tumoricidal effect of E4orf4 is typified by changes in nuclear dynamics that depend on its interaction with the polarity protein Par3 and actomyosin contractility. Mechanistically, E4orf4 induced a high incidence of nuclear bleb formation and repetitive nuclear ruptures, which promoted nuclear efflux of E4orf4 and loss of nuclear integrity. This process was regulated by nucleocytoskeletal connections, Par3 clustering proximal to nuclear lamina folds, and retrograde movement of actin bundles that correlated with nuclear ruptures. Significantly, Par3 also regulated the incidence of spontaneous nuclear ruptures facilitated by the downmodulation of lamins. This work uncovered a novel role for Par3 in controlling the actin-dependent forces acting on the nuclear envelope to remodel nuclear shape, which might be a defining feature of tumor cells that is harnessed by E4orf4.
PXD016618	32329196	O-glycan initiation directs distinct biological pathways and controls epithelial differentiation. 	O-glycan initiation directs distinct biological pathways and controls epithelial differentiation	3D skin, differential glycoproteomics, polyomics, polypeptide GalNAc-transferase, tissue development	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) greatly expand the function and potential for regulation of protein activity, and O-glycosylation is among the most abundant and diverse PTMs. Initiation of O-GalNAc glycosylation is regulated by 20 distinct GalNAc-transferases (GalNAc-Ts), and deficiencies in individual GalNAc-Ts are associated with human disease, causing subtle but distinct phenotypes in model organisms. Here, we generate a set of isogenic keratinocyte cell lines lacking either of the three dominant and differentially expressed GalNAc-Ts. Through the ability of keratinocytes to form epithelia, we investigate the phenotypic consequences of the loss of individual GalNAc-Ts. Moreover, we probe the cellular responses through global transcriptomic, differential glycoproteomic, and differential phosphoproteomic analyses. We demonstrate that loss of individual GalNAc-T isoforms causes distinct epithelial phenotypes through their effect on specific biological pathways; GalNAc-T1 targets are associated with components of the endomembrane system, GalNAc-T2 targets with cell-ECM adhesion, and GalNAc-T3 targets with epithelial differentiation. Thus, GalNAc-T isoforms serve specific roles during human epithelial tissue formation.
PXD014612	32330423	Cathepsin S Alterations Induce a Tumor-Promoting Immune Microenvironment in Follicular Lymphoma. 	Abberant Cathepsin S Activity Modulates the Immune Microenvironment in Follicular Lymphoma	Cysteine-protease, Follicular Lymphoma, Hematology, hotspot mutations, immune signaling	Tumor cells orchestrate their microenvironment. Here, we provide biochemical, structural, functional, and clinical evidence that Cathepsin S (CTSS) alterations induce a tumor-promoting immune microenvironment in follicular lymphoma (FL). We found CTSS mutations at Y132 in 6% of FL (19/305). Another 13% (37/286) had CTSS amplification, which was associated with higher CTSS expression. CTSS Y132 mutations lead to accelerated autocatalytic conversion from an enzymatically inactive profrom to active CTSS and increased substrate cleavage, including CD74, which regulates major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC class II)-restricted antigen presentation. Lymphoma cells with hyperactive CTSS more efficiently activated antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells in vitro. Tumors with hyperactive CTSS showed increased CD4(+) T cell infiltration and proinflammatory cytokine perturbation in a mouse model and in human FLs. In mice, this CTSS-induced immune microenvironment promoted tumor growth. Clinically, patients with CTSS-hyperactive FL had better treatment outcomes with standard immunochemotherapies, indicating that these immunosuppressive regimens target both the lymphoma cells and the tumor-promoting immune microenvironment.
PXD018423	32332094	Glycolaldehyde is an endogenous source of lysine N-pyrrolation. 	Binding proteins for the GA-modified proteins in mouse serum.	Glycolaldehyde, Protein modification, Serum	Lysine N-pyrrolation converts lysine residues to N(epsilon)-pyrrole-l-lysine (pyrK) in a covalent modification reaction that significantly affects the chemical properties of proteins, causing them to mimic DNA. pyrK in proteins has been detected in vivo, indicating that pyrrolation occurs as an endogenous reaction. However, the source of pyrK remains unknown. In this study, on the basis of our observation in vitro that pyrK is present in oxidized low-density lipoprotein and in modified proteins with oxidized polyunsaturated fatty acids, we used LC-electrospray ionization-MS/MS coupled with a stable isotope dilution method to perform activity-guided separation of active molecules in oxidized lipids and identified glycolaldehyde (GA) as a pyrK source. The results from mechanistic experiments to study GA-mediated lysine N-pyrrolation suggested that the reactions might include GA oxidation, generating the dialdehyde glyoxal, followed by condensation reactions of lysine amino groups with GA and glyoxal. We also studied the functional significance of GA-mediated lysine N-pyrrolation in proteins and found that GA-modified proteins are recognized by apolipoprotein E, a binding target of pyrrolated proteins. Moreover, GA-modified proteins triggered an immune response to pyrrolated proteins, and monoclonal antibodies generated from mice immunized with GA-modified proteins specifically recognized pyrrolated proteins. These findings reveal that GA is an endogenous source of DNA-mimicking pyrrolated proteins and may provide mechanistic insights relevant for innate and autoimmune responses associated with glucose metabolism and oxidative stress.
PXD017717	32332101	S-Glutathionylation of human inducible Hsp70 reveals a regulatory mechanism involving the C-terminal alpha-helical lid. 	Protein S-glutathionylation in HeLa cells identified by nanoLC-LTQ-Orbitrap XL MS/MS	S-glutathionylation, biotin switch, nanoLC-LTQ-Orbitrap XL MS/MS	Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) proteins are a family of ancient and conserved chaperones. Cysteine modifications have been widely detected among different Hsp70 family members in vivo, but their effects on Hsp70 structure and function are unclear. Here, we treated HeLa cells with diamide, which typically induces disulfide bond formation except in the presence of excess GSH, when glutathionylated cysteines predominate. We show that in these cells, HspA1A (hHsp70) undergoes reversible cysteine modifications, including glutathionylation, potentially at all five cysteine residues. In vitro experiments revealed that modification of cysteines in the nucleotide-binding domain of hHsp70 is prevented by nucleotide binding but that Cys-574 and Cys-603, located in the C-terminal alpha-helical lid of the substrate-binding domain, can undergo glutathionylation in both the presence and absence of nucleotide. We found that glutathionylation of these cysteine residues results in unfolding of the alpha-helical lid structure. The unfolded region mimics substrate by binding to and blocking the substrate-binding site, thereby promoting intrinsic ATPase activity and competing with binding of external substrates, including heat shock transcription factor 1 (Hsf1). Thus, post-translational modification can alter the structure and regulate the function of hHsp70.
PXD017620	32332106	A Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry Approach Defines Protein Interactions in Yeast Mitochondria. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometry of yeast mitochondria grown on different carbon sources reveal Ndi1, Min8 and Pet9 associated with the electron transport chain	ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, XL-MS, benchmarking, carbon source, cross-linking, machine learning, mitochondria, qXL-MS, quantitative	Protein cross-linking and the analysis of cross-linked peptides by mass spectrometry is currently receiving much attention. Not only is this approach applied to isolated complexes to provide information about spatial arrangements of proteins, but it is also increasingly applied to entire cells and their organelles. As in quantitative proteomics, the application of isotopic labeling further makes it possible to monitor quantitative changes in the protein-protein interactions between different states of a system. Here, we cross-linked mitochondria from Saccharomyces cerevisiae grown on either glycerol- or glucose-containing medium to monitor protein-protein interactions under non-fermentative and fermentative conditions. We investigated qualitatively the protein-protein interactions of the 400 most abundant proteins applying stringent data-filtering criteria, i.e. a minimum of two cross-linked peptide spectrum matches and a cut-off in the spectrum scoring of the used search engine. The cross-linker BS3 proved to be equally suited for connecting proteins in all compartments of mitochondria when compared with its water-insoluble but membrane-permeable derivative DSS. We also applied quantitative cross-linking to mitochondria of both the growth conditions using stable-isotope labeled BS3. Significant differences of cross-linked proteins under glycerol and glucose conditions were detected, however, mainly because of the different copy numbers of these proteins in mitochondria under both the conditions. Results obtained from the glycerol condition indicate that the internal NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase Ndi1 is part of an electron transport chain supercomplex. We have also detected several hitherto uncharacterized proteins and identified their interaction partners. Among those, Min8 was found to be associated with cytochrome c oxidase. BN-PAGE analyses of min8Delta mitochondria suggest that Min8 promotes the incorporation of Cox12 into cytochrome c oxidase.
PXD014526	32332107	Flow-induced Reorganization of Laminin-integrin Networks Within the Endothelial Basement Membrane Uncovered by Proteomics. 	Flow-induced reorganization of laminin-integrin networks within the endothelial basement membrane uncovered by proteomics	Endothelium, TNFalpha, basement membrane, extracellular matrix, flow, inflammation, integrin, laminin, shear stress	The vessel wall is continuously exposed to hemodynamic forces generated by blood flow. Endothelial mechanosensors perceive and translate mechanical signals via cellular signaling pathways into biological processes that control endothelial development, phenotype and function. To assess the hemodynamic effects on the endothelium on a system-wide level, we applied a quantitative mass spectrometry approach combined with cell surface chemical footprinting. SILAC-labeled endothelial cells were subjected to flow-induced shear stress for 0, 24 or 48 h, followed by chemical labeling of surface proteins using a non-membrane permeable biotin label, and analysis of the whole proteome and the cell surface proteome by LC-MS/MS analysis. These studies revealed that of the >5000 quantified proteins 104 were altered, which were highly enriched for extracellular matrix proteins and proteins involved in cell-matrix adhesion. Cell surface proteomics indicated that LAMA4 was proteolytically processed upon flow-exposure, which corresponded to the decreased LAMA4 mass observed on immunoblot. Immunofluorescence microscopy studies highlighted that the endothelial basement membrane was drastically remodeled upon flow exposure. We observed a network-like pattern of LAMA4 and LAMA5, which corresponded to the localization of laminin-adhesion molecules ITGA6 and ITGB4. Furthermore, the adaptation to flow-exposure did not affect the inflammatory response to tumor necrosis factor alpha, indicating that inflammation and flow trigger fundamentally distinct endothelial signaling pathways with limited reciprocity and synergy. Taken together, this study uncovers the blood flow-induced remodeling of the basement membrane and stresses the importance of the subendothelial basement membrane in vascular homeostasis.
PXD017935	32332720	Methylation of Salmonella Typhimurium flagella promotes bacterial adhesion and host cell invasion. 	Methylation of Salmonella Typhimurium flagella promotes bacterial adhesion and host cell invasion	Salmonella, host-pathogen interaction, post-translational modification, protein methylation	The long external filament of bacterial flagella is composed of several thousand copies of a single protein, flagellin. Here, we explore the role played by lysine methylation of flagellin in Salmonella, which requires the methylase FliB. We show that both flagellins of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, FliC and FljB, are methylated at surface-exposed lysine residues by FliB. A Salmonella Typhimurium mutant deficient in flagellin methylation is outcompeted for gut colonization in a gastroenteritis mouse model, and methylation of flagellin promotes bacterial invasion of epithelial cells in vitro. Lysine methylation increases the surface hydrophobicity of flagellin, and enhances flagella-dependent adhesion of Salmonella to phosphatidylcholine vesicles and epithelial cells. Therefore, posttranslational methylation of flagellin facilitates adhesion of Salmonella Typhimurium to hydrophobic host cell surfaces, and contributes to efficient gut colonization and host infection.
PXD015111	32332738	Decoding the stoichiometric composition and organisation of bacterial metabolosomes. 	Decoding the stoichiometric composition and organization of bacterial metabolosomes C4PR_LIV	Pdu MCP, Propanediol-utilising microcompartment, QconCAT, Salmonella	Some enteric bacteria including Salmonella have evolved the propanediol-utilising microcompartment (Pdu MCP), a specialised proteinaceous organelle that is essential for 1,2-propanediol degradation and enteric pathogenesis. Pdu MCPs are a family of bacterial microcompartments that are self-assembled from hundreds of proteins within the bacterial cytosol. Here, we seek a comprehensive understanding of the stoichiometric composition and organisation of Pdu MCPs. We obtain accurate stoichiometry of shell proteins and internal enzymes of the natural Pdu MCP by QconCAT-driven quantitative mass spectrometry. Genetic deletion of the major shell protein and absolute quantification reveal the stoichiometric and structural remodelling of metabolically functional Pdu MCPs. Decoding the precise protein stoichiometry allows us to develop an organisational model of the Pdu metabolosome. The structural insights into the Pdu MCP are critical for both delineating the general principles underlying bacterial organelle formation, structural robustness and function, and repurposing natural microcompartments using synthetic biology for biotechnological applications.
PXD011129	32332792	Conditional deletion of Nedd4-2 in lung epithelial cells causes progressive pulmonary fibrosis in adult mice. 	PRM detection of NEDD4-2 in human IPF and control tissue	IPF, Nedd4-2	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic progressive interstitial lung disease characterized by patchy scarring of the distal lung with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis. Here, we show that conditional deletion of the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-2 (Nedd4l) in lung epithelial cells in adult mice produces chronic lung disease sharing key features with IPF including progressive fibrosis and bronchiolization with increased expression of Muc5b in peripheral airways, honeycombing and characteristic alterations in the lung proteome. NEDD4-2 is implicated in the regulation of the epithelial Na(+) channel critical for proper airway surface hydration and mucus clearance and the regulation of TGFbeta signaling, which promotes fibrotic remodeling. Our data support a role of mucociliary dysfunction and aberrant epithelial pro-fibrotic response in the multifactorial disease pathogenesis. Further, treatment with the anti-fibrotic drug pirfenidone reduced pulmonary fibrosis in this model. This model may therefore aid studies of the pathogenesis and therapy of IPF.
PXD024291	32335296	Tracing incorporation of heavy water into proteins for species-specific metabolic activity in complex communities. 	Tracing incorporation of heavy water into proteins for species-specific metabolic activity in complex communities using protein-based stable isotope probing proteomics (Protein-SIP)	18O, 1D-LC, 2H, D2O, H218O, Heavy water, Oxygen 18, Protein-SIP, deuterium, metaproteomics, stable isotope, stable isotope probing	Stable isotope probing (SIP) approaches are a suitable tool to identify active organisms in bacterial communities, but adding isotopically labeled substrate can alter both the structure and the functionality of the community. Here, we validated and demonstrated a substrate-independent protein-SIP protocol using isotopically labeled water that captures the entire microbial activity of a community. We found that (18)O yielded a higher incorporation rate into peptides and thus comprised a higher sensitivity. We then applied the method to an in vitro model of a human distal gut microbial ecosystem grown in two medium formulations, to evaluate changes in microbial activity between a high-fiber and high-protein diet. We showed that only little changes are seen in the community structure but the functionality varied between the diets. In conclusion, our approach can detect species-specific metabolic activity in complex bacterial communities and more specifically to quantify the amount of amino acid synthesis. Heavy water makes possible to analyze the activity of bacterial communities for which adding an isotopically labeled energy and nutrient sources is not easily feasible. SIGNIFICANCE: Heavy stable isotopes allow for the detection of active key players in complex ecosystems where many organisms are thought to be dormant. Opposed to the labelling with energy or nutrient sources, heavy water could be a suitable replacement to trace activity, which has been shown for DNA and RNA. Here we validate, quantify and compare the incorporation of heavy water either labeled with deuterium or 18-oxygen into proteins of Escherichia coli K12 and of an in vitro model of a human gut microbial ecosystem. The significance of our research is in providing a freely available pipeline to analyze the incorporation of deuterium and 18-oxygen into proteins together with the validation of the applicability of tracing heavy water as a proxy for activity. Our approach unveils the relative functional contribution of microbiota in complex ecosystems, which will improve our understanding of both animal- and environment-associated microbiomes and in vitro models.
PXD009433	32336009	Deciphering MET-dependent modulation of global cellular responses to DNA damage by quantitative phosphoproteomics. 	MET-dependent modulation of cellular responses to ionizing radiation by quantitative phosphoproteomics	immunoaffinity, phosphoproteomics, selected reaction monitoring (SRM), targeted proteomics	Increasing evidence suggests that interference with growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) signaling can affect DNA damage response (DDR) networks, with a consequent impact on cellular responses to DNA-damaging agents widely used in cancer treatment. In that respect, the MET RTK is deregulated in abundance and/or activity in a variety of human tumors. Using two proteomic techniques, we explored how disrupting MET signaling modulates global cellular phosphorylation response to ionizing radiation (IR). Following an immunoaffinity-based phosphoproteomic discovery survey, we selected candidate phosphorylation sites for extensive characterization by targeted proteomics focusing on phosphorylation sites in both signaling networks. Several substrates of the DDR were confirmed to be modulated by sequential MET inhibition and IR, or MET inhibition alone. Upon combined treatment, for two substrates, NUMA1 S395 and CHEK1 S345, the gain and loss of phosphorylation, respectively, were recapitulated using invivo tumor models by immunohistochemistry, with possible utility in future translational research. Overall, we have corroborated phosphorylation sites at the intersection between MET and the DDR signaling networks, and suggest that these represent a class of proteins at the interface between oncogene-driven proliferation and genomic stability.
PXD015581	32337819	Trichoplein binds PCM1 and controls endothelial cell function by regulating autophagy. 	TCHP partner proteins by LC-MS/MS		Autophagy is an essential cellular quality control process that has emerged as a critical one for vascular homeostasis. Here, we show that trichoplein (TCHP) links autophagy with endothelial cell (EC) function. TCHP localizes to centriolar satellites, where it binds and stabilizes PCM1. Loss of TCHP leads to delocalization and proteasome-dependent degradation of PCM1, further resulting in degradation of PCM1's binding partner GABARAP. Autophagic flux under basal conditions is impaired in THCP-depleted ECs, and SQSTM1/p62 (p62) accumulates. We further show that TCHP promotes autophagosome maturation and efficient clearance of p62 within lysosomes, without affecting their degradative capacity. Reduced TCHP and high p62 levels are detected in primary ECs from patients with coronary artery disease. This phenotype correlates with impaired EC function and can be ameliorated by NF-kappaB inhibition. Moreover, Tchp knock-out mice accumulate of p62 in the heart and cardiac vessels correlating with reduced cardiac vascularization. Taken together, our data reveal that TCHP regulates endothelial cell function via an autophagy-mediated mechanism.
PXD015146	32340398	Effects of Graphene Oxide Nanofilm and Chicken Embryo Muscle Extract on Muscle Progenitor Cell Differentiation and Contraction. 	Idnetification of chicken embryo muscular and liver proteins	LC-MS, chicken, tissiue	Finding an effective muscle regeneration technique is a priority for regenerative medicine. It is known that the key factors determining tissue formation include cells, capable of proliferating and/or differentiating, a niche (surface) allowing their colonization and growth factors. The interaction between these factors, especially between the surface of the artificial niche and growth factors, is not entirely clear. Moreover, it seems that the use of a complex of complementary growth factors instead of a few strictly defined ones could increase the effectiveness of tissue maturation, including muscle tissue. In this study, we evaluated whether graphene oxide (GO) nanofilm, chicken embryo muscle extract (CEME), and GO combined with CEME would affect the differentiation and functional maturation of muscle precursor cells, as well as the ability to spontaneously contract a pseudo-tissue muscle. CEME was extracted on day 18 of embryogenesis. Muscle cells obtained from an 8-day-old chicken embryo limb bud were treated with GO and CEME. Cell morphology and differentiation were observed using different microscopy methods. Cytotoxicity and viability of cells were measured by lactate dehydrogenase and Vybrant Cell Proliferation assays. Gene expression of myogenic regulatory genes was measured by Real-Time PCR. Our results demonstrate that CEME, independent of the culture surface, was the main factor influencing the intense differentiation of muscle progenitor cells. The present results, for the first time, clearly demonstrated that the cultured tissue-like structure was capable of inducing contractions without externally applied impulses. It has been indicated that a small amount of CEME in media (about 1%) allows the culture of pseudo-tissue muscle capable of spontaneous contraction. The study showed that the graphene oxide may be used as a niche for differentiating muscle cells, but the decisive influence on the maturation of muscle tissue, especially muscle contractions, depends on the complexity of the applied growth factors.
PXD013801	32341059	Cullin 3 Is Crucial for Pro-B Cell Proliferation, Interacts with CD22, and Controls CD22 Internalization on B Cells. 	CD22 interactome              .	B cells, CD22, DT40 cells, QExactive Plus, SILAC, cullin 3	B lymphocytes are important players of the adaptive immune system. However, not just activation of B cells but also regulation of B cell signaling is important to prevent hyperactivity and dysregulation of the immune response. Different mechanisms and proteins contribute to this balance. One of these is CD22, a member of the Siglec family. It is an inhibitory coreceptor of the BCR and inhibits B cell activation. Upon BCR stimulation, CD22-dependent inhibition of BCR signaling results in a decreased calcium mobilization. Although some CD22 binding partners have already been identified, the knowledge about the CD22 interactome is still incomplete. In this study, quantitative affinity purification-mass spectrometry enabled the delineation of the CD22 interactome in the B cell line DT40. These data will clarify molecular mechanisms and CD22 signaling events after BCR activation and revealed several new CD22-associated proteins. One new identified interaction partner is the E3 ubiquitin ligase cullin 3, which was revealed to regulate CD22 surface expression and clathrin-dependent CD22 internalization after BCR stimulation. Furthermore cullin 3 was identified to be important for B lymphocytes in general. B cell-specific cullin 3-deficient mice show reduced developing B cells in the bone marrow and a severe pro-B cell proliferation defect. Mature B cells in the periphery are also reduced and characterized by increased CD22 expression and additionally by preactivated and apoptotic phenotypes. The findings reveal novel functions of cullin 3 in B lymphocytes, namely regulating CD22 surface expression and internalization after B cell activation, as well as promoting proliferation of pro-B cells.
PXD018315	32341350	Aging-regulated anti-apoptotic long non-coding RNA Sarrah augments recovery from acute myocardial infarction. 	Identification of proteins that interact with the lncRNA Sarrah	RNA/protein interaction	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) contribute to cardiac (patho)physiology. Aging is the major risk factor for cardiovascular disease with cardiomyocyte apoptosis as one underlying cause. Here, we report the identification of the aging-regulated lncRNA Sarrah (ENSMUST00000140003) that is anti-apoptotic in cardiomyocytes. Importantly, loss of SARRAH (OXCT1-AS1) in human engineered heart tissue results in impaired contractile force development. SARRAH directly binds to the promoters of genes downregulated after SARRAH silencing via RNA-DNA triple helix formation and cardiomyocytes lacking the triple helix forming domain of Sarrah show an increase in apoptosis. One of the direct SARRAH targets is NRF2, and restoration of NRF2 levels after SARRAH silencing partially rescues the reduction in cell viability. Overexpression of Sarrah in mice shows better recovery of cardiac contractile function after AMI compared to control mice. In summary, we identified the anti-apoptotic evolutionary conserved lncRNA Sarrah, which is downregulated by aging, as a regulator of cardiomyocyte survival.
PXD018149	32341357	CD41-deficient exosomes from non-traumatic femoral head necrosis tissues impair osteogenic differentiation and migration of mesenchymal stem cells. 	Itraq-base proteomics analysis of ONFH tissues exosomes	Itraq, exosomes, femur head necrosis, tissues	Non-traumatic osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) is clinically a devastating and progressive disease without an effective treatment. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) transplantation has been used to treat ONFH in early stage, but the failure rate of this therapy is high due to the reduced osteogenic differentiation and migration of the transplanted MSCs related with pathological bone tissues. However, the mechanism responsible for this decrease is still unclear. Therefore, we assume that the implanted MSCs might be influenced by signals delivered from pathological bone tissue, where the exosomes might play a critical role in this delivery. This study showed that exosomes from ONFH bone tissues (ONFH-exos) were able to induce GC-induced ONFH-like damage, in vivo and impair osteogenic differentiation and migration of MSCs, in vitro. Then, we analyzed the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in ONFH-exos using proteomic technology and identified 842 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). On the basis of gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis of DEPs, fold-changes and previous report, cell adhesion-related CD41 (integrin alpha2b) was selected for further investigation. Our study showed that the CD41 (integrin alpha2b) was distinctly decreased in ONFH-exos, compared to NOR-exos, and downregulation of CD41 could impair osteogenic differentiation and migration of the MSCs, where CD41-integrin beta3-FAK-Akt-Runx2 pathway was involved. Finally, our study further suggested that CD41-affluent NOR-exos could restore the glucocorticoid-induced decline of osteogenic differentiation and migration in MSCs, and prevent GC-induced ONFH-like damage in rat models. Taken together, our study results revealed that in the progress of ONFH, exosomes from the pathological bone brought about the failure of MSCs repairing the necrotic bone for lack of some critical proteins, like integrin CD41, and prompted the progression of experimentally induced ONFH-like status in the rat. CD41 could be considered as the target of early diagnosis and therapy in ONFH.
PXD013010	32341360	Integrative functional genomics decodes herpes simplex virus 1. 	LC-MSMS of HSV-1 infected HFFs	HFF, HSV-1, SILAC	The predicted 80 open reading frames (ORFs) of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) have been intensively studied for decades. Here, we unravel the complete viral transcriptome and translatome during lytic infection with base-pair resolution by computational integration of multi-omics data. We identify a total of 201 transcripts and 284 ORFs including all known and 46 novel large ORFs. This includes a so far unknown ORF in the locus deleted in the FDA-approved oncolytic virus Imlygic. Multiple transcript isoforms expressed from individual gene loci explain translation of the vast majority of ORFs as well as N-terminal extensions (NTEs) and truncations. We show that NTEs with non-canonical start codons govern the subcellular protein localization and packaging of key viral regulators and structural proteins. We extend the current nomenclature to include all viral gene products and provide a genome browser that visualizes all the obtained data from whole genome to single-nucleotide resolution.
PXD011862	32341448	Inhibition of the autophagic protein ULK1 attenuates axonal degeneration in vitro and in vivo, enhances translation, and modulates splicing. 	Inhibition of the autophagic protein ULK1 attenuates axonal degeneration in vitro and in vivo and modulates differential splicing	autophagy/ axonal degeneration/ ULK1/ spinal cord/ optic nerve/ splicing	Axonal degeneration is a key and early pathological feature in traumatic and neurodegenerative disorders of the CNS. Following a focal lesion to axons, extended axonal disintegration by acute axonal degeneration (AAD) occurs within several hours. During AAD, the accumulation of autophagic proteins including Unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1 (ULK1) has been demonstrated, but its role is incompletely understood. Here, we study the effect of ULK1 inhibition in different models of lesion-induced axonal degeneration in vitro and in vivo. Overexpression of a dominant negative of ULK1 (ULK1.DN) in primary rat cortical neurons attenuates axotomy-induced AAD in vitro. Both ULK1.DN and the ULK1 inhibitor SBI-0206965 protect against AAD after rat optic nerve crush in vivo. ULK1.DN additionally attenuates long-term axonal degeneration after rat spinal cord injury in vivo. Mechanistically, ULK1.DN decreases autophagy and leads to an mTOR-mediated increase in translational proteins. Consistently, treatment with SBI-0206965 results in enhanced mTOR activation. ULK1.DN additionally modulates the differential splicing of the degeneration-associated genes Kif1b and Ddit3. These findings uncover ULK1 as an important mediator of axonal degeneration in vitro and in vivo, and elucidate its function in splicing, defining it as a putative therapeutic target.
PXD015524	32341509	Novel specialized cell state and spatial compartments within the germinal center. 	Proteome profiling of mouse germinal center B cells	B cells	Within germinal centers (GCs), complex and highly orchestrated molecular programs must balance proliferation, somatic hypermutation and selection to both provide effective humoral immunity and to protect against genomic instability and neoplastic transformation. In contrast to this complexity, GC B cells are canonically divided into two principal populations, dark zone (DZ) and light zone (LZ) cells. We now demonstrate that, following selection in the LZ, B cells migrated to specialized sites within the canonical DZ that contained tingible body macrophages and were sites of ongoing cell division. Proliferating DZ (DZp) cells then transited into the larger DZ to become differentiating DZ (DZd) cells before re-entering the LZ. Multidimensional analysis revealed distinct molecular programs in each population commensurate with observed compartmentalization of noncompatible functions. These data provide a new three-cell population model that both orders critical GC functions and reveals essential molecular programs of humoral adaptive immunity.
PXD016229	32342003	Unbiased Identification of the Liposome Protein Corona using Photoaffinity-based Chemoproteomics. 	Unbiased identification of the liposome protein corona using photoaffinity based chemoproteomics	Chemoproteomics photoaffinity labelling human serum protein corona	Protein adsorption to the surface of a nanoparticle can fundamentally alter the character, behavior, and fate of a nanoparticle in vivo. Current methods to capture the protein corona rely on physical separation techniques and are unable to resolve key, individual protein-nanoparticle interactions. As a result, the precise link between the "synthetic" and the "biological" identity of a nanoparticle remains unclear. Herein, we report an unbiased photoaffinity-based approach to capture, characterize, and quantify the protein corona of liposomes in their native state. Compared to conventional methods, our photoaffinity approach reveals markedly different interacting proteins as well as reduced total protein binding to liposome surfaces. Identified proteins do not follow protein abundancy patterns of human serum, as has been generally reported, but are instead dominated by soluble apolipoproteins-endogenous serum proteins that have evolved to recognize the lipidic surface of circulating lipoproteins. We believe our findings are the most accurate characterization of a liposome's biological identity but, more fundamentally, reveal liposome-protein binding is, in many cases, significantly less complex than previously thought.
PXD016659	32342004	Light-Activatable, 2,5-Disubstituted Tetrazoles for the Proteome-wide Profiling of Aspartates and Glutamates in Living Bacteria. 	Light-activatable, 2,5-disubstituted tetrazoles for the proteome-wide profiling of aspartates and glutamates in living bacteria	Antibiotics, Chemoproteomics, Covalent inhibitors, isoDTB-ABPP	Covalent inhibitors have recently seen a resurgence of interest in drug development. Nevertheless, compounds, which do not rely on an enzymatic activity, have almost exclusively been developed to target cysteines. Expanding the scope to other amino acids would be largely facilitated by the ability to globally monitor their engagement by covalent inhibitors. Here, we present the use of light-activatable 2,5-disubstituted tetrazoles that allow quantifying 8971 aspartates and glutamates in the bacterial proteome with excellent selectivity. Using these probes, we competitively map the binding sites of two isoxazolium salts and introduce hydrazonyl chlorides as a new class of carboxylic-acid-directed covalent protein ligands. As the probes are unreactive prior to activation, they allow global profiling even in living Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. Taken together, this method to monitor aspartates and glutamates proteome-wide will lay the foundation to efficiently develop covalent inhibitors targeting these amino acids.
PXD025261	32343560	27-Plex Tandem Mass Tag Mass Spectrometry for Profiling Brain Proteome in Alzheimer's Disease. 	27-plex Tandem Mass Tag Mass Spectrometry for Profiling Brain Proteome in Alzheimer's Disease	Alzheimer's disease, Abeta, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), TMT, brain tissue, disease network	Multiplexed isobaric labeling methods, such as tandem mass tags (TMT), remarkably improve the throughput of quantitative mass spectrometry. Here, we present a 27-plex TMT method coupled with two-dimensional liquid chromatography (LC/LC) for extensive peptide fractionation and high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) for peptide quantification and then apply the method to profile the complex human brain proteome of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The 27-plex method combines multiplexed capacities of the 11-plex and the 16-plex TMT, as the peptides labeled by the two TMT sets display different mass and hydrophobicity, which can be well separated in LC-MS/MS. We first systematically optimized the protocol for the newly developed 16-plex TMT, including labeling reaction, desalting, and MS conditions, and then directly compared the 11-plex and 16-plex methods by analyzing the same human AD samples. Both methods yielded similar proteome coverage, analyzing >100 000 peptides in >10 000 human proteins. Furthermore, the 11-plex and 16-plex samples were mixed for a 27-plex assay, resulting in more than 8000 protein measurements within the same MS time. The 27-plex results are highly consistent with those of the individual 11-plex and 16-plex TMT analyses. We also used these proteomics data sets to compare the AD brain with the nondementia controls, discovering major AD-related proteins and revealing numerous novel protein alterations enriched in the pathways of amyloidosis, immunity, mitochondrial, and synaptic functions. Overall, our data strongly demonstrate that this new 27-plex strategy is highly feasible for routine large-scale proteomic analysis.
PXD018066	32343577	On-Chip Sample Preparation Using a ChipFilter Coupled to NanoLC-MS/MS for Bottom-Up Proteomics. 	On-chip sample preparation using a ChipFilter coupled to NanoLC-MS/MS for bottom-up proteomics	miniaturization	Sample preparation is a crucial step in bottom-up proteomics. Analytical performances of bottom-up proteomics can be improved by the miniaturization of sample preparation. Many microfluidic devices have been designed in the field of proteomics, but many of them are not capable of handling complex samples and do not integrate the processing and digestion steps. We propose a ChipFilter Proteolysis (CFP) microfluidic device as a proteomics reactor for the miniaturization of protein sample processing and digestion steps, whose design is closely related to the experimental setup of filter-aided sample processing, even if no denaturing surfactant is required. The microchip has two reaction chambers of 0.6 muL volume separated by a protein filtration membrane in regenerated cellulose (10kD cutoff) that will concentrate or retain large polypeptides and will release small molecules. Cell lysis, protein concentration, and rapid chemical or enzymatic treatment can be performed in the ChipFilter. Complex proteomic samples like yeast protein extract or whole human cells proteome have been successfully analyzed with our microchip. Compared with the membrane-based commercial ultracentrifugation cartridge, our microfluidic device offered a better proteome coverage with 10 times less starting material and 8 times faster protocol duration.
PXD017185	32343581	Simple and Sensitive Analysis for Dried Blood Spot Proteins by Sodium Carbonate Precipitation for Clinical Proteomics. 	DIA proteomics of dried blood spot proteins by sodium carbonate	DIA, Dried blood spot, clinical proteomics	Dried blood spots (DBS) are widely used for screening biomolecular profiles, including enzymatic activities. However, detection of minor proteins in DBS by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) without pre-enrichment remains challenging because of the coexistence of large quantities of hydrophilic proteins. In this study, we address this problem by developing a simple method using sodium carbonate precipitation (SCP). SCP enriches hydrophobic proteins from DBS, allowing substantial removal of soluble proteins. In combination with SCP, we used quantitative LC-MS/MS proteome analysis in a data-independent acquisition mode (DIA) to enhance the sensitivity and quantification limits of proteome analysis. As a result, identification of 1977 proteins in DBS is possible, including 585 disease-related proteins listed in the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man.
PXD018141	32344669	Discovering the RNA-Binding Proteome of Plant Leaves with an Improved RNA Interactome Capture Method. 	Identification of RNA binding Proteins in A. thaliana leaves	RBP, RNA binding proteins, RNA interactome capture, UV cross linking	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play a crucial role in regulating RNA function and fate. However, the full complement of RBPs has only recently begun to be uncovered through proteome-wide approaches such as RNA interactome capture (RIC). RIC has been applied to various cell lines and organisms, including plants, greatly expanding the repertoire of RBPs. However, several technical challenges have limited the efficacy of RIC when applied to plant tissues. Here, we report an improved version of RIC that overcomes the difficulties imposed by leaf tissue. Using this improved RIC method in Arabidopsis leaves, we identified 717 RBPs, generating a deep RNA-binding proteome for leaf tissues. While 75% of these RBPs can be linked to RNA biology, the remaining 25% were previously not known to interact with RNA. Interestingly, we observed that a large number of proteins related to photosynthesis associate with RNA in vivo, including proteins from the four major photosynthetic supercomplexes. As has previously been reported for mammals, a large proportion of leaf RBPs lack known RNA-binding domains, suggesting unconventional modes of RNA binding. We anticipate that this improved RIC method will provide critical insights into RNA metabolism in plants, including how cellular RBPs respond to environmental, physiological and pathological cues.
PXD018257	32344885	A Comprehensive Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Retinal Pigment Epithelium Reveals Multiple Pathway Alterations in Response to the Inflammatory Stimuli. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of ARPE-19 cells in response to LPS	ARPE-19, LPS	Overwhelming and persistent inflammation of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) induces destructive changes in the retinal environment. However, the precise mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to investigate RPE-specific biological and metabolic responses against intense inflammation and identify the molecular characteristics determining pathological progression. We performed quantitative analyses of the proteome and phosphoproteome of the human-derived RPE cell line ARPE-19 after treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 45 min or 24 h using the latest isobaric tandem-mass tags (TMTs) labeling approach. This approach led to the identification of 8984 proteins, of which 261 showed a 1.5-fold change in abundance after 24 h of treatment with LPS. A parallel phosphoproteome analysis identified 20,632 unique phosphopeptides from 3207 phosphoproteins with 3103 phosphorylation sites. Integrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses showed significant downregulation of proteins related to mitochondrial respiration and cell cycle checkpoint, while proteins related to lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, cell-matrix adhesion, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress were upregulated after LPS stimulation. Further, phosphorylation events in multiple pathways, including MAPKK and Wnt/beta-catenin signalings, were identified as involved in LPS-triggered pathobiology. In essence, our findings reveal multiple integrated signals exerted by RPE under inflammation and are expected to give insight into the development of therapeutic interventions for RPE disorders.
PXD018124	32345368	Widespread and tissue-specific expression of endogenous retroelements in human somatic tissues. 	LC-MSMS of OVCAR-3 class I immunopeptidome	MHC class I, OVCAR-3, immunopeptidome	BACKGROUND: Endogenous retroelements (EREs) constitute about 42% of the human genome and have been implicated in common human diseases such as autoimmunity and cancer. The dominant paradigm holds that EREs are expressed in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and germline cells but are repressed in differentiated somatic cells. Despite evidence that some EREs can be expressed at the RNA and protein levels in specific contexts, a system-level evaluation of their expression in human tissues is lacking. METHODS: Using RNA sequencing data, we analyzed ERE expression in 32 human tissues and cell types, including medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs). A tissue specificity index was computed to identify tissue-restricted ERE families. We also analyzed the transcriptome of mTECs in wild-type and autoimmune regulator (AIRE)-deficient mice. Finally, we developed a proteogenomic workflow combining RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry (MS) in order to evaluate whether EREs might be translated and generate MHC I-associated peptides (MAP) in B-lymphoblastoid cell lines (B-LCL) from 16 individuals. RESULTS: We report that all human tissues express EREs, but the breadth and magnitude of ERE expression are very heterogeneous from one tissue to another. ERE expression was particularly high in two MHC I-deficient tissues (ESCs and testis) and one MHC I-expressing tissue, mTECs. In mutant mice, we report that the exceptional expression of EREs in mTECs was AIRE-independent. MS analyses identified 103 non-redundant ERE-derived MAPs (ereMAPs) in B-LCLs. These ereMAPs preferentially derived from sense translation of intronic EREs. Notably, detailed analyses of their amino acid composition revealed that ERE-derived MAPs presented homology to viral MAPs. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that ERE expression in somatic tissues is more pervasive and heterogeneous than anticipated. The high and diversified expression of EREs in mTECs and their ability to generate MAPs suggest that EREs may play an important role in the establishment of self-tolerance. The viral-like properties of ERE-derived MAPs suggest that those not expressed in mTECs can be highly immunogenic.
PXD013011	32345644	The Cellular Response to Lanthanum Is Substrate Specific and Reveals a Novel Route for Glycerol Metabolism in Pseudomonas putida KT2440. 	The cellular response towards lanthanum is substrate specific and reveals a novel route for glycerol metabolism in Pseudomonas putida KT2440	GarK, Lanthanides, PQQ, PedE, PedH, Pseudomonas putida, dehydrogenases, glycerol metabolism, rare earth elements	Ever since the discovery of the first rare earth element (REE)-dependent enzyme, the physiological role of lanthanides has become an emerging field of research due to the environmental implications and biotechnological opportunities. In Pseudomonas putida KT2440, the two pyrroloquinoline quinone-dependent alcohol dehydrogenases (PQQ-ADHs) PedE and PedH are inversely regulated in response to REE availability. This transcriptional switch is orchestrated by a complex regulatory network that includes the PedR2/PedS2 two-component system and is important for efficient growth on several alcoholic volatiles. To study whether cellular responses beyond the REE switch exist, the differential proteomic responses that occur during growth on various model carbon sources were analyzed. Apart from the Ca(2+)-dependent enzyme PedE, the differential abundances of most identified proteins were conditional. During growth on glycerol-and concomitant with the proteomic changes-lanthanum (La(3+)) availability affected different growth parameters, including the onset of logarithmic growth and final optical densities. Studies with mutant strains revealed a novel metabolic route for glycerol utilization, initiated by PedE and/or PedH activity. Upon oxidation to glycerate via glyceraldehyde, phosphorylation by the glycerate kinase GarK most likely yields glycerate-2-phosphate, which is eventually channeled into the central metabolism of the cell. This new route functions in parallel with the main degradation pathway encoded by the glpFKRD operon and provides a growth advantage to the cells by allowing an earlier onset of growth with glycerol as the sole source of carbon and energy.IMPORTANCE The biological role of REEs has long been underestimated, and research has mainly focused on methanotrophic and methylotrophic bacteria. We have recently demonstrated that P. putida, a plant growth-promoting bacterium that thrives in the rhizosphere of various food crops, possesses a REE-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase (PedH), but knowledge about REE-specific effects on physiological traits in nonmethylotrophic bacteria is still scarce. This study demonstrates that the cellular response of P. putida to lanthanum (La(3+)) is mostly substrate specific and that La(3+) availability highly affects the growth of cells on glycerol. Further, a novel route for glycerol metabolism is identified, which is initiated by PedE and/or PedH activity and provides a growth advantage to this biotechnologically relevant organism by allowing a faster onset of growth. Overall, these findings demonstrate that lanthanides can affect physiological traits in nonmethylotrophic bacteria and might influence their competitiveness in various environmental niches.
PXD017133	32345711	The DNA Sensor cGAS is Decorated by Acetylation and Phosphorylation Modifications in the Context of Immune Signaling. 	Identification of cGAS post-translational modifications	IP-MS, acetylation, herpesvirus, immune response, phosphorylation	The cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) protein is a pattern-recognition receptor of the mammalian innate immune system that is recognized as a main cytosolic sensor of pathogenic or damaged DNA. cGAS DNA binding initiates catalytic production of the second messenger, cyclic GMP-AMP, which activates the STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling axis to induce cytokine expression. Post-translational modification (PTM) has started to be recognized as a critical component of cGAS regulation, yet the extent of these modifications remains unclear. Here, we report the identification and functional analysis of cGAS phosphorylations and acetylations in several cell types under basal and immune-stimulated conditions. cGAS was enriched by immunoaffinity purification from human primary fibroblasts prior to and after infection with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), as well as from immune-stimulated STING-HEK293T cells. Six phosphorylations and eight acetylations were detected, of which eight PTMs were not previously documented. PTMs were validated by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mass spectrometry in fibroblasts, HEK293T cells, and THP-1 macrophage-like cells. Primary sequence and structural analysis of cGAS highlighted a subset of PTM sites with elevated surface accessibility and high evolutionary sequence conservation. To assess the functional relevance of each PTM, we generated a series of single-point cGAS mutations. Stable cell lines were constructed to express cGAS with amino acid substitutions that prevented phosphorylation (Ser-to-Ala) and acetylation (Lys-to-Arg) or that mimicked the modification state (Ser-to-Asp and Lys-to-Gln). cGAS-dependent apoptotic and immune signaling activities were then assessed for each mutation. Our results show that acetyl-mimic mutations at Lys384 and Lys414 inhibit the ability of cGAS to induce apoptosis. In contrast, the Lys198 acetyl-mimic mutation increased cGAS-dependent interferon signaling when compared with the unmodified charge-mimic. Moreover, targeted PRM quantification showed that Lys198 acetylation is decreased upon infections with two herpesviruses-HSV-1 and human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), highlighting this residue as a regulatory point during virus infection.
PXD007981	32345721	Inhibition of sphingolipid synthesis improves outcomes and survival in GARP mutant wobbler mice, a model of motor neuron degeneration. 	Inhibiting sphingolipid synthesis improves outcomes and survival in GARP-mutant wobbler mouse, an ALS model	MEF, SILAC	Numerous mutations that impair retrograde membrane trafficking between endosomes and the Golgi apparatus lead to neurodegenerative diseases. For example, mutations in the endosomal retromer complex are implicated in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and mutations of the Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex cause progressive cerebello-cerebral atrophy type 2 (PCCA2). However, how these mutations cause neurodegeneration is unknown. GARP mutations in yeast, including one causing PCCA2, result in sphingolipid abnormalities and impaired cell growth that are corrected by treatment with myriocin, a sphingolipid synthesis inhibitor, suggesting that alterations in sphingolipid metabolism contribute to cell dysfunction and death. Here we tested this hypothesis in wobbler mice, a murine model with a homozygous partial loss-of-function mutation in Vps54 (GARP protein) that causes motor neuron disease. Cytotoxic sphingoid long-chain bases accumulated in embryonic fibroblasts and spinal cords from wobbler mice. Remarkably, chronic treatment of wobbler mice with myriocin markedly improved their wellness scores, grip strength, neuropathology, and survival. Proteomic analyses of wobbler fibroblasts revealed extensive missorting of lysosomal proteins, including sphingolipid catabolism enzymes, to the Golgi compartment, which may contribute to the sphingolipid abnormalities. Our findings establish that altered sphingolipid metabolism due to GARP mutations contributes to neurodegeneration and suggest that inhibiting sphingolipid synthesis might provide a useful strategy for treating these disorders.
PXD016828	32345963	Proteogenomics analysis unveils a TFG-RET gene fusion and druggable targets in papillary thyroid carcinomas. 	Proteogenomics analysis unveils a novel TFG-RET gene fusion and druggable targets in papillary thyroid carcinomas	PTC/ RET/ HUWE1/ USP7/ USP9X / Precision medicine/ TFG-RET	Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) is the most common type of endocrine malignancy. By RNA-seq analysis, we identify a RET rearrangement in the tumour material of a patient who does not harbour any known RAS or BRAF mutations. This new gene fusion involves exons 1-4 from the 5' end of the Trk fused Gene (TFG) fused to the 3' end of RET tyrosine kinase leading to a TFG-RET fusion which transforms immortalized human thyroid cells in a kinase-dependent manner. TFG-RET oligomerises in a PB1 domain-dependent manner and oligomerisation of TFG-RET is required for oncogenic transformation. Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the upregulation of E3 Ubiquitin ligase HUWE1 and DUBs like USP9X and UBP7 in both tumor and metastatic lesions, which is further confirmed in additional patients. Expression of TFG-RET leads to the upregulation of HUWE1 and inhibition of HUWE1 significantly reduces RET-mediated oncogenesis.
PXD015606	32347222	ProteoViz: a tool for the analysis and interactive visualization of phosphoproteomics data. 	ProteoViz: A toolset for interactive analysis of phosphoproteomics data	Shiny, TMT, phosphoproteomics	Quantitative proteomics generates large datasets with increasing depth and quantitative information. With the advance of mass spectrometry and increasingly larger data sets, streamlined methodologies and tools for analysis and visualization of phosphoproteomics are needed both at the protein and modified peptide levels. To assist in addressing this need, we developed ProteoViz, which includes a set of R scripts that perform normalization and differential expression analysis of both the proteins and enriched phosphorylated peptides, and identify sequence motifs, kinases, and gene set enrichment pathways. The tool generates interactive visualization plots that allow users to interact with the phosphoproteomics results and quickly identify proteins and phosphorylated peptides of interest for their biological study. The tool also links significant phosphosites with sequence motifs and pathways that will help explain the experimental conditions and guide future experiments. Here, we present the workflow and demonstrate its functionality by analyzing a phosphoproteomic data set from two lymphoma cell lines treated with kinase inhibitors. The scripts and data are freely available at and via the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015606.
PXD018186	32347575	BGL3 lncRNA mediates retention of the BRCA1/BARD1 complex at DNA damage sites. 	RAP-MS analysis of LncRNA BGL3 interacting proteins in cells	LncRNA BGL3 LC-MS	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are emerging regulators of genomic stability and human disease. However, the molecular mechanisms by which nuclear lncRNAs directly contribute to DNA damage responses remain largely unknown. Using RNA antisense purification coupled with quantitative mass spectrometry (RAP-qMS), we found that the lncRNA BGL3 binds to PARP1 and BARD1, exhibiting unexpected roles in homologous recombination. Mechanistically, BGL3 is recruited to DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) by PARP1 at an early time point, which requires its interaction with the DNA-binding domain of PARP1. BGL3 also binds the C-terminal BRCT domain and an internal region (amino acids 127-424) of BARD1, which mediates interaction of the BRCA1/BARD1 complex with its binding partners such as HP1gamma and RAD51, resulting in BRCA1/BARD1 retention at DSBs. Cells depleted for BGL3 displayed genomic instability and were sensitive to DNA-damaging reagents. Overall, our findings underscore the biochemical versatility of RNA as a mediator molecule in the DNA damage response pathway, which affects the accumulation of BRCA1/BARD1 at DSBs.
PXD014311	32348758	Region-Specific Proteome Changes of the Intestinal Epithelium during Aging and Dietary Restriction. 	Region-specific proteome changes of the intestinal epithelium during aging and dietary restriction	Aging, crypts, diet, small intestine, stem cell	The small intestine is responsible for nutrient absorption and one of the most important interfaces between the environment and the body. During aging, changes of the epithelium lead to food malabsorption and reduced barrier function, thus increasing disease risk. The drivers of these alterations remain poorly understood. Here, we compare the proteomes of intestinal crypts from mice across different anatomical regions and ages. We find that aging alters epithelial immunity, metabolism, and cell proliferation and is accompanied by region-dependent skewing in the cellular composition of the epithelium. Of note, short-term dietary restriction followed by refeeding partially restores the epithelium by promoting stem cell differentiation toward the secretory lineage. We identify Hmgcs2 (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A [CoA] synthetase 2), the rate-limiting enzyme for ketogenesis, as a modulator of stem cell differentiation that responds to dietary changes, and we provide an atlas of region- and age-dependent proteome changes of the small intestine.
PXD015940	32348883	Evaluation of NHS-Acetate and DEPC labelling for determination of solvent accessible amino acid residues in protein complexes. 	Evaluation of NHS-Acetate and DEPC labelling for determination of solvent accessible amino acid residues in protein complexes	Chemical labelling, N-hydroxysuccinimidyl acetate, diethylpyrocarbonate, labelling percentage, neutral loss, solvent accessible surface area	The activity of most proteins and protein complexes relies on the formation of defined three-dimensional structures. The analysis of these arrangements is therefore key for understanding their function and regulation in the cell. Besides the traditional structural techniques, structural mass spectrometry delivers insights into the various aspects of protein structure, including stoichiometry, protein-ligand interactions and solvent accessibility. The latter is usually obtained from labelling experiments. In this study, we evaluate two chemical labelling strategies using N-hydroxysuccinimidyl acetate and diethylpyrocarbonate as labelling reagents. We characterised the mass spectra of modified peptides and assessed labelling reactivity of individual amino acid residues in intact proteins. Importantly, we uncovered neutral losses from diethylpyrocarbonate modified amino acids improving the assignments of the peptide fragment spectra. We further established a quantitative labelling workflow to determine labelling percentage and unambiguously distinguish solvent accessible amino acid residues from stochastically labelled residues. Finally, we used ion mobility MS to explore whether labelled proteins maintain their structures and remain stable. We conclude that labelling using N-hydroxysuccinimidyl acetate and diethylpyrocarbonate delivers comparable results, however, N-hydroxysuccinimidyl acetate labelling is compatible with standard proteomic workflows while diethylpyrocarbonate labelling requires specialised experimental conditions and data analysis. SIGNIFICANCE: Covalent labelling is widely used to identify solvent accessible amino acid residues of proteins or protein complexes. However, with increasing sensitivity of available MS instrumentation, a high number of modified residues is usually observed making an unambiguous assignment of solvent accessible residues necessary. In this study, we establish a quantitative labelling workflow for two different labelling strategies to identify accessible amino acid residues. In addition, we characterise observed mass spectra of modified peptides and identified neutral loss of DEPC modified amino acid residues during HCD fragmentation improving their assignments.
PXD018032	32350116	The SH3 domain in the fucosyltransferase FUT8 controls FUT8 activity and localization and is essential for core fucosylation. 	Proteomic identification of the proteins that co-precipitated with FUT8	FUT8, RPN1, SH3	Core fucose is an N-glycan structure synthesized by alpha1,6-fucosyltransferase 8 (FUT8) localized to the Golgi apparatus and critically regulates the functions of various glycoproteins. However, how FUT8 activity is regulated in cells remains largely unclear. At the luminal side and uncommon for Golgi proteins, FUT8 has an Src homology 3 (SH3) domain, which is usually found in cytosolic signal transduction molecules and generally mediates protein-protein interactions in the cytosol. However, the SH3 domain has not been identified in other glycosyltransferases, suggesting that FUT8's functions are selectively regulated by this domain. In this study, using truncated FUT8 constructs, immunofluorescence staining, FACS analysis, cell-surface biotinylation, proteomics, and LC-electrospray ionization MS analyses, we reveal that the SH3 domain is essential for FUT8 activity both in cells and in vitro and identified His-535 in the SH3 domain as the critical residue for enzymatic activity of FUT8. Furthermore, we found that although FUT8 is mainly localized to the Golgi, it also partially localizes to the cell surface in an SH3-dependent manner, indicating that the SH3 domain is also involved in FUT8 trafficking. Finally, we identified ribophorin I (RPN1), a subunit of the oligosaccharyltransferase complex, as an SH3-dependent binding protein of FUT8. RPN1 knockdown decreased both FUT8 activity and core fucose levels, indicating that RPN1 stimulates FUT8 activity. Our findings indicate that the SH3 domain critically controls FUT8 catalytic activity and localization and is required for binding by RPN1, which promotes FUT8 activity and core fucosylation.
PXD018000	32350248	MALT-1 mediates IL-17 neural signaling to regulate C. elegans behavior, immunity and longevity. 	MALT-1 mediates IL-17 neural signaling to regulate C. elegans behavior, immunity and longevity	C. elegans, behaviour, neuroimmune communication, signaling	Besides pro-inflammatory roles, the ancient cytokine interleukin-17 (IL-17) modulates neural circuit function. We investigate IL-17 signaling in neurons, and the extent it can alter organismal phenotypes. We combine immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry to biochemically characterize endogenous signaling complexes that function downstream of IL-17 receptors in C. elegans neurons. We identify the paracaspase MALT-1 as a critical output of the pathway. MALT1 mediates signaling from many immune receptors in mammals, but was not previously implicated in IL-17 signaling or nervous system function. C. elegans MALT-1 forms a complex with homologs of Act1 and IRAK and appears to function both as a scaffold and a protease. MALT-1 is expressed broadly in the C. elegans nervous system, and neuronal IL-17-MALT-1 signaling regulates multiple phenotypes, including escape behavior, associative learning, immunity and longevity. Our data suggest MALT1 has an ancient role modulating neural circuit function downstream of IL-17 to remodel physiology and behavior.
PXD017800	32351493	Actinobacterial Degradation of 2-Hydroxyisobutyric Acid Proceeds via Acetone and Formyl-CoA by Employing a Thiamine-Dependent Lyase Reaction. 	Proteome analysis of Actinomycetospora chiangmaiensis DSM 45062 degrading 2-HIBA	2-hydroxyacyl-CoA lyase, Mycolicibacterium, acyloin condensation, degradation pathway, fuel oxygenate, isobutene, tert-butyl alcohol	The tertiary branched short-chain 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid (2-HIBA) has been associated with several metabolic diseases and lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation seems to be a common eukaryotic as well as prokaryotic post-translational modification in proteins. In contrast, the underlying 2-HIBA metabolism has thus far only been detected in a few microorganisms, such as the betaproteobacterium Aquincola tertiaricarbonis L108 and the Bacillus group bacterium Kyrpidia tusciae DSM 2912. In these strains, 2-HIBA can be specifically activated to the corresponding CoA thioester by the 2-HIBA-CoA ligase (HCL) and is then isomerized to 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA in a reversible and B12-dependent mutase reaction. Here, we demonstrate that the actinobacterial strain Actinomycetospora chiangmaiensis DSM 45062 degrades 2-HIBA and also its precursor 2-methylpropane-1,2-diol via acetone and formic acid by employing a thiamine pyrophosphate-dependent lyase. The corresponding gene is located directly upstream of hcl, which has previously been found only in operonic association with the 2-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA mutase genes in other bacteria. Heterologous expression of the lyase gene from DSM 45062 in E. coli established a 2-hydroxyisobutyryl-CoA lyase activity in the latter. In line with this, analysis of the DSM 45062 proteome reveals a strong induction of the lyase-HCL gene cluster on 2-HIBA. Acetone is likely degraded via hydroxylation to acetol catalyzed by a MimABCD-related binuclear iron monooxygenase and formic acid appears to be oxidized to CO2 by selenium-dependent dehydrogenases. The presence of the lyase-HCL gene cluster in isoprene-degrading Rhodococcus strains and Pseudonocardia associated with tropical leafcutter ant species points to a role in degradation of biogenic short-chain ketones and highly branched organic compounds.
PXD018176	32352297	Ultraviolet Photodissociation of Tryptic Peptide Backbones at 213 nm. 	Ultraviolet Photodissociation of tryptic peptide backbones at 213 nm	Dual MS2, E. coli, Fusion Lumos, HSA, UVPD 213 nm, creatine kinase, myoglobin, ovotransferrin	We analyzed the backbone fragmentation behavior of tryptic peptides of a four-protein mixture and of E. coli lysate subjected to ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD) at 213 nm on a commercially available UVPD-equipped tribrid mass spectrometer. We obtained 15 178 unique high-confidence peptide UVPD spectrum matches by recording a reference beam-type collision-induced dissociation (HCD) spectrum of each precursor, ensuring that our investigation includes a broad selection of peptides, including those that fragmented poorly by UVPD. Type a, b, and y ions were most prominent in UVPD spectra, and median sequence coverage ranged from 5.8% (at 5 ms laser excitation time) to 45.0% (at 100 ms). Overall, the sequence fragment intensity remained relatively low (median: 0.4% (5 ms) to 16.8% (100 ms) of total intensity), and the remaining precursor intensity, high. The sequence coverage and sequence fragment intensity ratio correlated with the precursor charge density, suggesting that UVPD at 213 nm may suffer from newly formed fragments sticking together due to noncovalent interactions. The UVPD fragmentation efficiency therefore might benefit from supplemental activation, as was shown for ETD. Aromatic amino acids, most prominently tryptophan, facilitated UVPD. This points to aromatic tags as possible enhancers of UVPD. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018176 and on spectrumviewer.org/db/UVPD-213nm-trypPep.
PXD013572	32355176	The cooperative action of CSB, CSA, and UVSSA target TFIIH to DNA damage-stalled RNA polymerase II. 	UV-specific and -indepent interactors	TC-NER	The response to DNA damage-stalled RNA polymerase II (RNAPIIo) involves the assembly of the transcription-coupled repair (TCR) complex on actively transcribed strands. The function of the TCR proteins CSB, CSA and UVSSA and the manner in which the core DNA repair complex, including transcription factor IIH (TFIIH), is recruited are largely unknown. Here, we define the assembly mechanism of the TCR complex in human isogenic knockout cells. We show that TCR is initiated by RNAPIIo-bound CSB, which recruits CSA through a newly identified CSA-interaction motif (CIM). Once recruited, CSA facilitates the association of UVSSA with stalled RNAPIIo. Importantly, we find that UVSSA is the key factor that recruits the TFIIH complex in a manner that is stimulated by CSB and CSA. Together these findings identify a sequential and highly cooperative assembly mechanism of TCR proteins and reveal the mechanism for TFIIH recruitment to DNA damage-stalled RNAPIIo to initiate repair.
PXD018687	32357304	Physiological Tau Interactome in Brain and Its Link to Tauopathies. 	Physiological tau interactome in brain and its link to tauopathies_complete submission	Alzheimers disease, in vivo crosslinking, tau interaction partners, tau pathology, tau protein, tauopathies	Alzheimer's disease (AD) and most of the other tauopathies are incurable neurodegenerative diseases with unpleasant symptoms and consequences. The common hallmark of all of these diseases is tau pathology, but its connection with disease progress has not been completely understood so far. Therefore, uncovering novel tau-interacting partners and pathology affected molecular pathways can reveal the causes of diseases as well as potential targets for the development of AD treatment. Despite the large number of known tau-interacting partners, a limited number of studies focused on in vivo tau interactions in disease or healthy conditions are available. Here, we applied an in vivo cross-linking approach, capable of capturing weak and transient protein-protein interactions, to a unique transgenic rat model of progressive tau pathology similar to human AD. We have identified 175 potential novel and known tau-interacting proteins by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Several of the most promising candidates for possible drug development were selected for validation by coimmunoprecipitation and colocalization experiments in animal and cellular models. Three proteins, Baiap2, Gpr37l1, and Nptx1, were confirmed as novel tau-interacting partners, and on the basis of their known functions and implications in neurodegenerative or psychiatric disorders, we proposed their potential role in tau pathology.
PXD014754	32357974	Immunopeptidomic Analysis Reveals That Deamidated HLA-bound Peptides Arise Predominantly from Deglycosylated Precursors. 	C1R.A*01:01, C1R.A*02:01, C1R.A*24:02 MHC class I immunopeptidome LC-MSMS	Deamidation, ERAD, HLA, mass spectromtry	The presentation of post-translationally modified (PTM) peptides by cell surface HLA molecules has the potential to increase the diversity of targets for surveilling T cells. Although immunopeptidomics studies routinely identify thousands of HLA-bound peptides from cell lines and tissue samples, in-depth analyses of the proportion and nature of peptides bearing one or more PTMs remains challenging. Here we have analyzed HLA-bound peptides from a variety of allotypes and assessed the distribution of mass spectrometry-detected PTMs, finding deamidation of asparagine or glutamine to be highly prevalent. Given that asparagine deamidation may arise either spontaneously or through enzymatic reaction, we assessed allele-specific and global motifs flanking the modified residues. Notably, we found that the N-linked glycosylation motif NX(S/T) was highly abundant across asparagine-deamidated HLA-bound peptides. This finding, demonstrated previously for a handful of deamidated T cell epitopes, implicates a more global role for the retrograde transport of nascently N-glycosylated polypeptides from the ER and their subsequent degradation within the cytosol to form HLA-ligand precursors. Chemical inhibition of Peptide:N-Glycanase (PNGase), the endoglycosidase responsible for the removal of glycans from misfolded and retrotranslocated glycoproteins, greatly reduced presentation of this subset of deamidated HLA-bound peptides. Importantly, there was no impact of PNGase inhibition on peptides not containing a consensus NX(S/T) motif. This indicates that a large proportion of HLA-I bound asparagine deamidated peptides are generated from formerly glycosylated proteins that have undergone deglycosylation via the ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD) pathway. The information herein will help train deamidation prediction models for HLA-peptide repertoires and aid in the design of novel T cell therapeutic targets derived from glycoprotein antigens.
PXD016958	32358040	Quantitative Proteomics of All 14 Renal Tubule Segments in Rat. 	Proteomic analysis of microdissected renal tubules	Kidney, Microdissection, Physiology, Renal tubule	BACKGROUND: Previous research has used RNA sequencing in microdissected kidney tubules or single cells isolated from the kidney to profile gene expression in each type of kidney tubule epithelial cell. However, because proteins, not mRNA molecules, mediate most cellular functions, it is desirable to know the identity and amounts of each protein species to understand function. Recent improvements in the sensitivity of mass spectrometers offered us the ability to quantify the proteins expressed in each of 14 different renal tubule segments from rat. METHODS: We manually dissected kidney tubules from rat kidneys and subjected samples to protein mass spectrometry. We used the "proteomic ruler" technique to estimate the number of molecules of each protein per cell. RESULTS: Over the 44 samples analyzed, the average number of quantified proteins per segment was 4234, accounting for at least 99% of protein molecules in each cell. We have made the data publicly available online at the Kidney Tubule Expression Atlas website (https://esbl.nhlbi.nih.gov/KTEA/). Protein abundance along the renal tubule for many commonly studied water and solute transport proteins and metabolic enzymes matched expectations from prior localization studies, demonstrating the overall reliability of the data. The site features a "correlated protein" function, which we used to identify cell type-specific transcription factors expressed along the renal tubule. CONCLUSIONS: We identified and quantified proteins expressed in each of the 14 segments of rat kidney tubules and used the proteomic data that we obtained to create an online information resource, the Kidney Tubule Expression Atlas. This resource will allow users throughout the world to browse segment-specific protein expression data and download them for their own research.
PXD018225	32358195	Facultative protein selenation regulates redox sensitivity, adipose tissue thermogenesis, and obesity. 	Facultative protein selenation controls redox sensitivity, adipose tissue thermogenesis and obesity	Diabetes (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Selenium, Thermogenesis, UCP1	Oxidation of cysteine thiols by physiological reactive oxygen species (ROS) initiates thermogenesis in brown and beige adipose tissues. Cellular selenocysteines, where sulfur is replaced with selenium, exhibit enhanced reactivity with ROS. Despite their critical roles in physiology, methods for broad and direct detection of proteogenic selenocysteines are limited. Here we developed a mass spectrometric method to interrogate incorporation of selenium into proteins. Unexpectedly, this approach revealed facultative incorporation of selenium as selenocysteine or selenomethionine into proteins that lack canonical encoding for selenocysteine. Selenium was selectively incorporated into regulatory sites on key metabolic proteins, including as selenocysteine-replacing cysteine at position 253 in uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1). This facultative utilization of selenium was initiated by increasing cellular levels of organic, but not inorganic, forms of selenium. Remarkably, dietary selenium supplementation elevated facultative incorporation into UCP1, elevated energy expenditure through thermogenic adipose tissue, and protected against obesity. Together, these findings reveal the existence of facultative protein selenation, which correlates with impacts on thermogenic adipocyte function and presumably other biological processes as well.
PXD018159	32358503	SYNERGISTIC ON AUXIN AND CYTOKININ 1 positively regulates growth and attenuates soil pathogen resistance. 	Synergistic on auxin and cytokinin 1 positively regulates growth and attenuates soil pathogen resistance	TAP, auxin, cytokinin, plants, transcriptomics	Plants as non-mobile organisms constantly integrate varying environmental signals to flexibly adapt their growth and development. Local fluctuations in water and nutrient availability, sudden changes in temperature or other abiotic and biotic stresses can trigger changes in the growth of plant organs. Multiple mutually interconnected hormonal signaling cascades act as essential endogenous translators of these exogenous signals in the adaptive responses of plants. Although the molecular backbones of hormone transduction pathways have been identified, the mechanisms underlying their interactions are largely unknown. Here, using genome wide transcriptome profiling we identify an auxin and cytokinin cross-talk component; SYNERGISTIC ON AUXIN AND CYTOKININ 1 (SYAC1), whose expression in roots is strictly dependent on both of these hormonal pathways. We show that SYAC1 is a regulator of secretory pathway, whose enhanced activity interferes with deposition of cell wall components and can fine-tune organ growth and sensitivity to soil pathogens.
PXD016993	32358557	Inter-domain dynamics in the chaperone SurA and multi-site binding to its outer membrane protein clients. 	Identification of SurA inter-domain dynamics and client binding by XL-MS	E coli, OmpX, SurA, XL-MS	The periplasmic chaperone SurA plays a key role in outer membrane protein (OMP) biogenesis. E. coli SurA comprises a core domain and two peptidylprolyl isomerase domains (P1 and P2), but its mechanisms of client binding and chaperone function have remained unclear. Here, we use chemical cross-linking, hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, single-molecule FRET and molecular dynamics simulations to map the client binding site(s) on SurA and interrogate the role of conformational dynamics in OMP recognition. We demonstrate that SurA samples an array of conformations in solution in which P2 primarily lies closer to the core/P1 domains than suggested in the SurA crystal structure. OMP binding sites are located primarily in the core domain, and OMP binding results in conformational changes between the core/P1 domains. Together, the results suggest that unfolded OMP substrates bind in a cradle formed between the SurA domains, with structural flexibility between domains assisting OMP recognition, binding and release.
PXD017613	32360002	Pancreatic cancer cells show lower oleic acid oxidation and their conditioned medium inhibits oleic acid oxidation in human myotubes. 	Conditioned media from human pancreatic cancer cells reduces oleic acid oxidation in human myotubes	cancer, energy metabolism, myotubes, pancreatic cell models	BACKGROUND: /Objectives: We aimed to metabolically compare healthy primary human pancreatic epithelial cells (hPEC) to a pancreatic cancer cell line (PANC-1) and explore the effect on energy metabolism of exposing primary human myotubes to conditioned medium from hPEC and PANC-1 cells. METHODS: Differences in metabolism were examined with radiolabeled glucose, oleic acid and lactic acid, and by qPCR. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics was used to study global protein secretion from the two cell types. Pathway analyses were performed. RESULTS: PANC-1 cells tended to have higher glucose uptake, production of lactic acid, and glucose oxidation compared to hPEC cells. PANC-1 cells had higher uptake but lower oxidation of oleic acid, and mitochondrial reserve capacity from oleic acid was lower in PANC-1 cells. These differences in energy metabolism were reflected by differences in gene expressions and pathway analyses of the secretome. Conditioned medium from PANC-1 cells attenuated oleic acid oxidation in primary human myotubes. CONCLUSIONS: Metabolic characterization of the PANC-1 cells revealed a glycolytic phenotype since they had an active glucose oxidation. Furthermore, PANC-1 cells showed a lower oleic acid oxidation and secreted a high amount of proteins into conditioned medium that also induced a reduced oleic acid oxidation in myotubes.
PXD017268	32360370	Proteomic characterization of the mucosal pellicle formed in vitro on a cellular model of oral epithelium. 	Proteomic characterization of the mucosal pellicle formed in vitro on a cellular model of oral epithelium	TR146/MUC1 cells, cellular model of oral mucosa, mucosal pellicle, saliva	The oral mucosal pellicle is a thin lubricating layer generated by the binding of saliva proteins on epithelial oral cells. The protein composition of this biological structure has been to date studied by targeted analyses of specific salivary proteins. In order to perform a more exhaustive proteome characterization of pellicles, we used TR146 cells expressing or not the transmembrane mucin MUC1 and generated pellicles by incubation with human saliva and washing to remove unbound proteins. A suitable method was established for the in vitro isolation of the mucosal pellicle by "shaving" it from the cells using trypsin. The extracts, the washing solutions and the saliva used to constitute the pellicles were analyzed by LC MS/MS (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017268). Comparison of pellicle and saliva compositions evidenced the adsorption of proteins not previously reported as pellicle constituents such as proteins of the PLUNC family. Pellicles formed on TR146 and TR146/MUC1 were also analyzed and compared by protein label-free quantification. The two types of samples appeared as distinct clusters in multivariate analyses, but the discriminant proteins (Welch test p < .05, FDR < 0.1) were cellular rather than salivary proteins. SIGNIFICANCE: The oral mucosal pellicle is made of salivary proteins tightly bound to oral epithelial cells. It is essential to oral health, with biological functions depending largely on its protein constituents. Characterizing its proteome is difficult due to the intimate association of this protein layer to cell membranes. In this work, we report a trypsin "shaving" protocol which enabled to sample the pellicle formed on an in vitro cellular model of oral epithelium. Analyzing such samples by high-resolution mass spectrometry provided novel information on the mucosal pellicle composition. This work is therefore a good starting point for further characterization of this biological structure.
PXD015255	32361798	Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Neurons Contain a Transcriptional Network. 	Human neuronal extracellular vesicles contain a transcriptional network and tetraspanin-defined subpopulations	iPSC, neuron	Healthy brain function is mediated by several complementary signalling pathways, many of which are driven by extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs are heterogeneous in both size and cargo and are constitutively released from cells into the extracellular milieu. They are subsequently trafficked to recipient cells, whereupon their entry can modify the cellular phenotype. Here, in order to further analyse the mRNA and protein cargo of neuronal EVs, we isolated EVs by size exclusion chromatography from human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons. Electron microscopy and dynamic light scattering revealed that the isolated EVs had a diameter of 30-100 nm. Transcriptomic and proteomics analyses of the EVs and neurons identified key molecules enriched in the EVs involved in cell surface interaction (integrins and collagens), internalisation pathways (clathrin- and caveolin-dependent), downstream signalling pathways (phospholipases, integrin-linked kinase and MAPKs), and long-term impacts on cellular development and maintenance. Overall, we show that key signalling networks and mechanisms are enriched in EVs isolated from human iPSC-derived neurons.
PXD014913	32362126	TaxIt: An Iterative Computational Pipeline for Untargeted Strain-Level Identification Using MS/MS Spectra from Pathogenic Single-Organism Samples. 	Automated identification of the Cowpox virus (Brighton Red) strain in HEp-2 cells using nLC-MS/MS spectra	Cowpox virus (Brighton Red), nLC-MS/MS	Untargeted accurate strain-level classification of a priori unidentified organisms using tandem mass spectrometry is a challenging task. Reference databases often lack taxonomic depth, limiting peptide assignments to the species level. However, the extension with detailed strain information increases runtime and decreases statistical power. In addition, larger databases contain a higher number of similar proteomes. We present TaxIt, an iterative workflow to address the increasing search space required for MS/MS-based strain-level classification of samples with unknown taxonomic origin. TaxIt first applies reference sequence data for initial identification of species candidates, followed by automated acquisition of relevant strain sequences for low level classification. Furthermore, proteome similarities resulting in ambiguous taxonomic assignments are addressed with an abundance weighting strategy to increase the confidence in candidate taxa. For benchmarking the performance of our method, we apply our iterative workflow on several samples of bacterial and viral origin. In comparison to noniterative approaches using unique peptides or advanced abundance correction, TaxIt identifies microbial strains correctly in all examples presented (with one tie), thereby demonstrating the potential for untargeted and deeper taxonomic classification. TaxIt makes extensive use of public, unrestricted, and continuously growing sequence resources such as the NCBI databases and is available under open-source BSD license at https://gitlab.com/rki_bioinformatics/TaxIt.
PXD015552	32362303	Proteomic Interactome of C. elegans Mediator Complex Subunit 28 (MDT-28) Reveals Predominant Association with a Restricted Set of Core Mediator Subunits and an Affinity to Additional Structural and Enzymatic Proteins. 	Proteomic interactome of C. elegans Mediator complex subunit 28 (MDT-28) reveals predominant association with a restricted set of core Mediator subunits and an affinity to additional structural and enzymatic proteins	C. elegans, Mediator complex	Transcription factors exert their regulatory potential on RNA polymerase II machinery through a multiprotein complex called Mediator complex or Mediator. The Mediator complex integrates regulatory signals from cell regulatory cascades with the regulation by transcription factors. The Mediator complex consists of 25 subunits in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and 30 or more subunits in multicellular eukaryotes. Mediator subunit 28 (MED28), along with MED30, MED23, MED25 and MED26, belong to presumably evolutionarily new subunits that seem to be absent in unicellular eukaryotes and are likely to have evolved together with multicellularity and cell differentiation. Previously, we have shown that an originally uncharacterized predicted gene, F28F8.5, is the true MED28 orthologue in Caenorhabditis elegans (mdt-28) and showed that it is involved in a spectrum of developmental processes. Here, we studied the proteomic interactome of MDT-28 edited as GFP::MDT-28 using Crispr/Cas9 technology or MDT-28::GFP expressed from extrachromosomal arrays in transgenic C. elegans exploiting the GFPTRAP system and mass spectrometry. The results show that MDT-28 associates with the Head module subunits MDT-6, MDT-8, MDT-11, MDT-17, MDT- 20, MDT-22, and MDT-30 and the Middle module subunit MDT-14. The analyses also identified additional proteins as preferential MDT-28 interactants, including chromatin-organizing proteins, structural proteins and enzymes. The results provide evidence for MDT-28 engagement in the Mediator Head module and support the possibility of physical (direct or indirect) interaction of MDT-28 with additional proteins, reflecting the transcription-regulating potential of primarily structural and enzymatic proteins at the level of the Mediator complex.
PXD016614	32362878	Integrative Proteome and Acetylome Analyses of Murine Responses to Cryptococcus neoformans Infection. 	Integrative proteome and acetylome analyses of murine responses to Cryptococcus neoformans infection	cryptococcus neoformans infection, lysine acetylome, mouse brain, mouse lung	Cryptococcus neoformans is a causative agent for pulmonary infection and meningoencephalitis. Understanding the host's response to C. neoformans infection is critical for developing effective treatment. Even though some have elucidated the host response at the transcriptome level, little is known about how it modulates its defense machinery through the proteome mechanism or how protein posttranslational modification responds to the infection. In this work, we employed a murine infection model and mass spectrometry to systematically determine the proteome and acetylome statuses of lungs and brains in the early stage of infection. To extensively analyze the host response, we integrated the proteome data to the transcriptome results. Critical genes, including genes involved in phagosome, lysosome, and platelet activation are significantly altered in protein and gene expression during infection. In the acetylome analysis, we demonstrated that lung and brain tissues differentially regulate protein acetylation during infection. The three primary groups of proteins altered in acetylation status are histones, proteins involved in glucose and fatty acid metabolism, and proteins from the immune system. These analyses provide an integrative regulation network of the host responding to C. neoformans and shed new light on understanding the host's regulation mechanism when responding to C. neoformans.
PXD015921	32363013	A circulating extracellular vesicles-based novel screening tool for colorectal cancer revealed by shotgun and data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. 	Circulating Exosomes proteome of Colorectal Cancer Based on Rapid DIA-MS	Biomarker, Colorectal Cancer, Exosome, Phosphoproteome	Background: Early screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) is essential to improve its prognosis. Liquid biopsies are increasingly being considered for diagnosing cancer due to low invasiveness and high reproducibility. In addition, circulating extracellular vesicles (crEVs, extracellular vesicles isolated from plasma) expressing tumour-specific proteins are potential biomarkers for various cancers. Here, we present a data-independent acquisition (DIA)-mass spectrometry (MS)-based diagnostic method for liquid biopsies. Methods: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were isolated from culture supernatants of human CRC cell lines, and plasma of patients with CRC at different tumour stages, by overnight ultracentrifugation coupled with sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Tumour-specific EV proteins were prioritized using Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based shotgun proteomics and phosphoproteomics. The results were verified in a second independent cohort and a mouse tumour-bearing model using Western blotting (WB). The candidate biomarkers were further validated in a third cohort by DIA-MS. Finally, the DIA-MS methodology was accelerated to permit high-throughput detection of EV biomarkers in another independent cohort of patients with CRC and healthy controls. Results: High levels of total and phosphorylated fibronectin 1 (FN1) in crEVs, haptoglobin (HP), S100A9 and fibrinogen alpha chain (FGA) were significantly associated with cancer progression. FGA was the most dominant biomarker candidate. Analysis of the human CRC cell lines and the mouse model indicated that FGA+ crEVs were likely released by CRC cells. Furthermore, fast DIA-MS and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM)-MS both confirmed that FGA+ crEVs could distinguish colon adenoma with an area of curve (AUC) in the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve of 0.949 and patients with CRC (AUC of ROC is 1.000) from healthy individuals. The performance outperformed conventional tumour biomarkers. The DIA-MS quantification of FGA+ crEVs among three groups agreed with that from PRM-MS. Conclusion: DIA-MS detection of FGA+ crEVs is a potential rapid and non-invasive screening tool to identify early stage CRC. Abbreviations: FGA: fibrinogen alpha chain; CRC: colorectal cancer; crEVs: circulating extracellular vesicles; EV: extracellular vesicles;MS: mass spectrometry; WB: Western blotting; ROC: receiver operating characteristic; PRM: Parallel Reaction Monitoring; GPC1: Glypican-1; GO: Gene ontology; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; FN1: Fibronectin 1; HP: haptoglobin; TMT: Tandem Mass Tag; LC-MS/MS: liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry; DIA: data-independent acquisition; DDA: data-dependent acquisition; CiRT: Common internal Retention Time standards;AGC: Automatic gain control; AUC: area under curve.
PXD014389	32363014	Protein markers for Candida albicans EVs include claudin-like Sur7 family proteins. 	Candida albicans (DAY286 biofilm) extracellular vesicle and whole cell lysate proteomes	Candida, EV, QExactive, biofilm	Background: Fungal extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been implicated in host-pathogen and pathogen-pathogen communication in some fungal diseases. In depth research into fungal EVs has been hindered by the lack of specific protein markers such as those found in mammalian EVs that have enabled sophisticated isolation and analysis techniques. Despite their role in fungal EV biogenesis, ESCRT proteins such as Vps23 (Tsg101) and Bro1 (ALIX) are not present as fungal EV cargo. Furthermore, tetraspanin homologs are yet to be identified in many fungi including the model yeast S. cerevisiae. Objective: We performed de novo identification of EV protein markers for the major human fungal pathogen Candida albicans with adherence to MISEV2018 guidelines. Materials and methods: EVs were isolated by differential ultracentrifugation from DAY286, ATCC90028 and ATCC10231 yeast cells, as well as DAY286 biofilms. Whole cell lysates (WCL) were also obtained from the EV-releasing cells. Label-free quantitative proteomics was performed to determine the set of proteins consistently enriched in EVs compared to WCL. Results: 47 proteins were consistently enriched in C. albicans EVs. We refined these to 22 putative C. albicans EV protein markers including the claudin-like Sur7 family (Pfam: PF06687) proteins Sur7 and Evp1 (orf19.6741). A complementary set of 62 EV depleted proteins was selected as potential negative markers. Conclusions: The marker proteins for C. albicans EVs identified in this study will be useful tools for studies on EV biogenesis and cargo loading in C. albicans and potentially other fungal species and will also assist in elucidating the role of EVs in C. albicans pathogenesis. Many of the proteins identified as putative markers are fungal specific proteins indicating that the pathways of EV biogenesis and cargo loading may be specific to fungi, and that assumptions made based on studies in mammalian cells could be misleading. Abbreviations: A1 - ATCC10231; A9 - ATCC90028; DAY B - DAY286 biofilm; DAY Y - DAY286 yeast; EV - extracellular vesicle; Evp1 - extracellular vesicle protein 1 (orf19.6741); GO - gene ontology; Log2(FC) - log2(fold change); MCC - membrane compartment of Can1; MDS - multidimensional scaling; MISEV - minimal information for studies of EVs; sEVs - small EVs; SP - signal peptide; TEMs - tetraspanin enriched microdomains; TM - transmembrane; VDM - vesicle-depleted medium; WCL - whole cell lysate.
PXD011776	32363156	Proteomic profiling of Serratia marcescens by high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Proteomic profiling of Serratia marcescens (ATCC13880) by high-resolution mass spectrometry	Antibiotic resistance, Gram negative bacteria, Orbitrap Fusion, Serratia	Introduction: Serratia marcescens, an opportunistic human pathogen, is reported as an important cause of nosocomial infection and outbreaks. Although the genome of S. marcescens (ATCC 13880) was completely sequenced by 2014, there are no studies on the proteomic profile of the organism. The objective of the present study is to analyze the protein profile of S. marcescens (ATCC 13880) using a high resolution mass spectrometry (MS). Methods: Serratia marcescens ATCC 13880 strain was grown in Luria-Bertani broth and the protein extracted was subjected to trypsin digestion, followed by basic reverse phase liquid chromatography fractionation. The peptide fractions were then analysed using Orbitrap Fusion Mass Spectrometry and the raw MS data were processed in Proteome Discoverer software. Results: The proteomic analysis identified 15 009 unique peptides mapping to 2541 unique protein groups, which corresponds to approximately 54% of the computationally predicted protein-coding genes. Bioinformatic analysis of these identified proteins showed their involvement in biological processes such as cell wall organization, chaperone-mediated protein folding and ATP binding. Pathway analysis revealed that some of these proteins are associated with bacterial chemotaxis and beta-lactam resistance pathway. Conclusion: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first high-throughput proteomics study of S. marcescens (ATCC 13880). These novel observations provide a crucial baseline molecular profile of the S. marcescens proteome which will prove to be helpful for the future research in understanding the host-pathogen interactions during infection, elucidating the mechanism of multidrug resistance, and developing novel diagnostic markers or vaccine for the disease.
PXD016291	32363853	Solid-Phase Peptide Capture and Release for Bulk and Single-Molecule Proteomics. 	Peptide N-terminal Bead Capture and Release	N-terminal Modification	The field of proteomics has expanded recently with more sensitive techniques for the bulk measurement of peptides as well as single-molecule techniques. One limiting factor for some of these methods is the need for multiple chemical derivatizations and highly pure proteins free of contaminants. We demonstrate a solid-phase capture-release strategy suitable for the proteolysis, purification, and subsequent chemical modification of peptides. We use this resin on an HEK293T cell lysate and perform one-pot proteolysis, capture, and derivatization to survey peptide capture biases from over 40 000 unique peptides from a cellular proteome. We also show that this capture can be reversed in a traceless manner, such that it is amenable for single-molecule proteomics techniques. With this technique, we perform a fluorescent labeling and C-terminal derivatization on a peptide and subject it to fluorosequencing, demonstrating that washing the resin is sufficient to remove excess dyes and other reagents prior to single-molecule protein sequencing.
PXD015480	32364241	PaACL silencing accelerates flower senescence and changes the proteome to maintain metabolic homeostasis in Petunia hybrida. 	The effects of PhACL silencing on protein acetylation in petunia the effects of acetyl-CoA	ACL, Acetylome, Metabolome, Petunia	Cytosolic acetyl-CoA is an intermediate of the synthesis of most secondary metabolites and the source of acetyl for protein acetylation. The formation of cytosolic acetyl-CoA from citrate is catalysed by ATP-citrate lyase (ACL). However, the function of ACL in global metabolite synthesis and global protein acetylation is not well known. Here, four genes, PaACLA1, PaACLA2, PaACLB1, and PaACLB2, which encode the ACLA and ACLB subunits of ACL in Petunia axillaris, were identified as the same sequences in Petunia hybrida 'Ultra'. Silencing of PaACLA1-A2 and PaACLB1-B2 led to abnormal leaf and flower development, reduced total anthocyanin content, and accelerated flower senescence in petunia 'Ultra'. Metabolome and acetylome analysis revealed that PaACLB1-B2 silencing increased the content of many downstream metabolites of acetyl-CoA metabolism and the levels of acetylation of many proteins in petunia corollas. Mechanistically, the metabolic stress induced by reduction of acetyl-CoA in PaACL-silenced petunia corollas caused global and specific changes in the transcriptome, the proteome, and the acetylome, with the effect of maintaining metabolic homeostasis. In addition, the global proteome and acetylome were negatively correlated under acetyl-CoA deficiency. Together, our results suggest that ACL acts as an important metabolic regulator that maintains metabolic homeostasis by promoting changes in the transcriptome, proteome. and acetylome.
PXD017242	32364744	His-Tagged Peptidiscs Enable Affinity Purification of the Membrane Proteome for Downstream Mass Spectrometry Analysis. 	Functionalized Peptidisc Scaffolds Enable Affinity Purification of the Membrane Proteome	E. coli, Membrane interactome, Membrane protein reconstitution, Peptidisc	Characterization of the integral membrane proteome by mass spectrometry (MS) remains challenging due its high complexity and inherent insolubility. In a typical experiment, the cellular membranes are isolated, the proteins are solubilized and fractionated, and the detergent micelles are removed before MS analysis. Detergents are not compatible with mass spectrometry, however, and their removal from biological samples often results in reduced protein identification. As an alternative to detergents, we recently developed the peptidisc membrane mimetic, which allows entrapment of the cell envelope proteome into water-soluble particles, termed a "peptidisc library". Here, we employ a His-tagged version of the peptidisc peptide scaffold to enrich the reconstituted membrane proteome by affinity chromatography. This purification step reduces the sample complexity by depleting ribosomal and soluble proteins that often cosediment with cellular membranes. As a result, the peptidisc library is enriched in low-abundance membrane proteins. We apply this method to survey changes in the membrane proteome upon depletion of the SecDFyajC complex, the ancillary subunit of the Sec translocon. In the depleted strain, we detect increased membrane localization of the motor ATPase SecA, along with increased levels of an unannotated inner membrane protein, YibN. Together, these results demonstrate the utility of the peptidisc for global purification of membrane proteins and for monitoring change in the membrane proteome.
PXD010574	32365528	The Hippo Pathway Transducers YAP1/TEAD Induce Acquired Resistance to Trastuzumab in HER2-Positive Breast Cancer. 	Human HER2-breast cancer cell line, trastuzumab-resistant, LC-MSMS	ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), SILAC, breast cancer	Trastuzumab is the first-line targeted therapeutic drug for HER2-positive breast cancer, leading to improved overall survival. However, acquired resistance inevitably occurs. We aimed to identify, quantify, and assess the mechanisms of acquired resistance to trastuzumab. We established an acquired trastuzumab-resistant model in vitro from BT-474, a trastuzumab-sensitive, HER2-amplified breast-cancer cell line. A multi-omic strategy was implemented to obtain gene, proteome, and phosphoproteome signatures associated with acquired resistance to trastuzumab in HER2-positive breast cancer, followed by validation in human clinical samples. YAP1 dephosphorylation and TEAD2 overexpression were detected as significant alterations in the Hippo pathway in trastuzumab-resistant breast cancer. Because of the emerging role of these proteins as mediators of normal growth and tumorigenesis, we assessed the exogenous modulation of their activity, either by in vitro gene silencing or by pharmacological inhibition of the YAP1/TEAD complexes, both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, we identified increased signaling through the Hippo pathway in human samples after progression following trastuzumab treatment. Finally, YAP1/TAZ nuclear accumulation in malignant cells in HER2 breast tumor was significantly associated with worse progression-free and overall survival in metastatic HER2-positive breast-cancer patients. Our results suggest the involvement of Hippo signaling in acquired trastuzumab resistance in breast cancer. Additionally, we provide novel evidence for a potential breast-cancer treatment strategy based on dual targeting of HER2 and Hippo pathway effectors, which may improve the antitumor activity of trastuzumab and help overcome resistance.
PXD017693	32367038	Identification of Isopeptides Between Human Tissue Transglutaminase and Wheat, Rye, and Barley Gluten Peptides. 	Identification of Isopeptides Between Human Tissue Transglutaminase and Wheat, Rye, and Barley Gluten Peptides	celiac disease, gluten, isopeptides, transglutaminase	Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic immune-mediated enteropathy of the small intestine, which is triggered by the ingestion of storage proteins (gluten) from wheat, rye, and barley in genetically predisposed individuals. Human tissue transglutaminase (TG2) plays a central role in the pathogenesis of CD, because it is responsible for specific gluten peptide deamidation and covalent crosslinking, resulting in the formation of N(epsilon)-(gamma-glutamyl)-lysine isopeptide bonds. The resulting TG2-gluten peptide complexes are assumed to cause the secretion of anti-TG2 autoantibodies, but the underlying mechanisms are only partly known. To gain more insight into the structures of these complexes, the aim of our study was to identify TG2-gluten isopeptides. With the use of discovery-driven as well as targeted nanoscale liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, we detected 29 TG2-gluten isopeptides in total, involving seven selected TG2 lysine residues (K205, K265, K429, K468, K590, K600, K677). Several gluten peptides carried known B-cell epitopes and/or T-cell epitopes, either intact 9-mer core regions or partial sequences, as well as sequences bearing striking similarities to already known epitopes. These novel insights into the molecular structures of TG2-gluten peptide complexes may help clarify their physiological relevance in the initiation of CD autoimmunity and the role of anti-TG2 autoantibodies.
PXD018597	32367047	Myeloid PTEN promotes chemotherapy-induced NLRP3-inflammasome activation and antitumour immunity. 	Myeloid PTEN promotes chemotherapy-induced NLRP3 inflammasome activation and antitumor immunity	Myeloid PTEN, NLRP3 inflammasome, chemotherapy	PTEN is a dual-specificity phosphatase that is frequently mutated in human cancer, and its deficiency in cancer has been associated with therapy resistance and poor survival. Although the intrinsic tumour-suppressor function of PTEN has been well established, evidence of its role in the tumour immune microenvironment is lacking. Here, we show that chemotherapy-induced antitumour immune responses and tumour suppression rely on myeloid-cell PTEN, which is essential for chemotherapy-induced activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and antitumour immunity. PTEN directly interacts with and dephosphorylates NLRP3 to enable NLRP3-ASC interaction, inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, supplementation of IL-1beta restores chemotherapy sensitivity in mouse myeloid cells with a PTEN deficiency. Clinically, chemotherapy-induced IL-1beta production and antitumour immunity in patients with cancer is correlated with PTEN expression in myeloid cells, but not tumour cells. Our results demonstrate that myeloid PTEN can determine chemotherapy responsiveness by promoting NLRP3-dependent antitumour immunity and suggest that myeloid PTEN might be a potential biomarker to predict chemotherapy responses.
PXD011977	32367721	Improving Gene Annotation of the Peanut Genome by Integrated Proteogenomics Workflow. 	Peanut shell iTRAQ data       .	Peanut, TripleTOF 5600, iTRAQ	Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) is a staple crop in semiarid tropical and subtropical regions. Although the genome of peanut has been fully sequenced, the current gene annotations are still incomplete. New technologies in genomics and proteomics have resulted in the emergence of proteogenomics, which can integrate genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data for improving gene annotation. In the present study, we collected RNA-seq and proteomic data from multiple tissues such as seed, shell, and gynophore of peanut and utilized a proteogenomic approach to improve the gene annotation of peanut based on these data. A total of 1 935 655 904 RNA-seq reads and 7 490 280 MS/MS spectra were collected. Ultimately, 13 767 annotated genes were found with evidence at the protein level, and seven novel protein-coding genes were found with both RNA-seq and proteomics evidence. In addition, 35 gene models were updated based on proteomics data. Proteogenomic approaches improved the gene annotation in certain aspects by integrating both RNA-seq and proteomic data. We expect that these approaches could help improve existing genome annotations of other species.
PXD018294	32368190	NEK10 interactome and depletion reveal new roles in mitochondria. 	Characterization of NEK10 proteomic interactions under genotoxic stress	Immunoprecipitation, Mitochondria, Nek10	BACKGROUND: Members of the family of NEK protein kinases (NIMA-related kinases) were described to have crucial roles in regulating different aspects of the cell cycle. NEK10 was reported to take part in the maintenance of the G2/M checkpoint after exposure to ultraviolet light. NEK1, NEK5, NEK2 and NEK4 proteins on the other hand have been linked to mitochondrial functions. METHODS: HEK293T cells were transfected with FLAG empty vector or FLAG-NEK10 and treated or not with Zeocin. For proteomic analysis, proteins co-precipitated with the FLAG constructs were digested by trypsin, and then analyzed via LC-MS/MS. Proteomic data retrieved were next submitted to Integrated Interactome System analysis and differentially expressed proteins were attributed to Gene Ontology biological processes and assembled in protein networks by Cytoscape. For functional, cellular and molecular analyses two stable Nek10 silenced HeLa cell clones were established. RESULTS: Here, we discovered the following possible new NEK10 protein interactors, related to mitochondrial functions: SIRT3, ATAD3A, ATAD3B, and OAT. After zeocin treatment, the spectrum of mitochondrial interactors increased by the proteins: FKBP4, TXN, PFDN2, ATAD3B, MRPL12, ATP5J, DUT, YWHAE, CS, SIRT3, HSPA9, PDHB, GLUD1, DDX3X, and APEX1. We confirmed the interaction of NEK10 and GLUD1 by proximity ligation assay and confocal microscopy. Furthermore, we demonstrated that NEK10-depleted cells showed more fragmented mitochondria compared to the control cells. The knock down of NEK10 resulted further in changes in mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, decreased citrate synthase activity, and culminated in inhibition of mitochondrial respiration, affecting particularly ATP-linked oxygen consumption rate and spare capacity. NEK10 depletion also decreased the ratio of mtDNA amplification, possibly due to DNA damage. However, the total mtDNA content increased, suggesting that NEK10 may be involved in the control of mtDNA content. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together these data place NEK10 as a novel regulatory player in mitochondrial homeostasis and energy metabolism.
PXD017778	32369372	Stable Isotope-Triggered Offset Fragmentation Allows Massively Multiplexed Target Profiling on Quadrupole-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometers. 	Triggered offset fragmentation allows massively multiplexed target profiling on quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometers	PRM, multiplexing, quantification, targeted proteomics	Parallel-reaction monitoring (PRM) using high resolution, accurate mass (HR/AM) analysis on quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometers, like the Q Exactive, is one of the most promising approaches for targeted protein analysis. However, PRM has a limited multiplexing capacity, which depends heavily on the reproducibility of peptide retention times. To overcome these limitations, we aimed to establish an easily applicable data acquisition mode that allows retention-time-independent massive multiplexing on Q Exactive mass spectrometers. The presented method is based on data-dependent acquisition and is called pseudo-PRM. In principle, high-intensity stable isotope-labeled peptides are used to trigger the repeated fragmentation of the corresponding light peptides. In this way, pseudo-PRM data can be analyzed like normal PRM data. We tested pseudo-PRM for the target detection from yeast, human cells, and serum, showing good reproducibility and sensitivities comparable to normal PRM. We demonstrated further that pseudo-PRM can be used for accurate and precise quantification of target peptides, using both precursor and fragment ion areas. Moreover, we showed multiplexing of more than 1000 targets in a single run. Finally, we applied pseudo-PRM to quantify vaccinia virus proteins during infection, verifying that pseudo-PRM presents an alternative method for multiplexed target profiling on Q Exactive mass spectrometers.
PXD016427	32369596	pepFunk: a tool for peptide-centric functional analysis of metaproteomic human gut microbiome studies. 	Effecst of metformin on the human gut micorbiome	drugs, human gut microbiome, metaproteomics, metformin	MOTIVATION: Enzymatic digestion of proteins before mass spectrometry analysis is a key process in metaproteomic workflows. Canonical metaproteomic data processing pipelines typically involve matching spectra produced by the mass spectrometer to a theoretical spectra database, followed by matching the identified peptides back to parent-proteins. However, the nature of enzymatic digestion produces peptides that can be found in multiple proteins due to conservation or chance, presenting difficulties with protein and functional assignment. RESULTS: To combat this challenge, we developed pepFunk, a peptide-centric metaproteomic workflow focused on the analysis of human gut microbiome samples. Our workflow includes a curated peptide database annotated with Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) terms and a gene set variation analysis-inspired pathway enrichment adapted for peptide-level data. Analysis using our peptide-centric workflow is fast and highly correlated to a protein-centric analysis, and can identify more enriched KEGG pathways than analysis using protein-level data. Our workflow is open source and available as a web application or source code to be run locally. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: pepFunk is available online as a web application at https://shiny.imetalab.ca/pepFunk/ with open-source code available from https://github.com/northomics/pepFunk. CONTACT: dfigeys@uottawa.ca. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD017604	32370915	Comparative analysis of excretory-secretory products of muscle larvae of three isolates of Trichinella pseudospiralis by the iTRAQ method. 	Comparative analysis of excretory-secretory products of muscle larvae of three isolates of Trichinella pseudospiralis by the iTRAQ method	Excretory-secretory products, Muscle larvae, Proteomics., T cells, Trichinella pseudospiralis, iTRAQ	Trichinella pseudospiralis is a non-encapsulated intracellular parasitic nematode that can possess a strong ability to modulate the host immune response. Here, we compared the differentially expressed proteins of excretory-secretory (ES) products in three isolates of T. pseudospiralis muscle larvae (ML) [from Russia (RUS), United States of America (USA) and Australia (AUS)] using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ)-based technology. A total of 2591 nonredundant proteins were identified, of which 65 (146), 72 (98) and 43 (103) significantly upregulated (downregulated) differentially expressed proteins were detected among pairwise comparisons (T4RUS vs T4USA, T4AUS vs T4USA and T4RUS vs T4AUS). In addition, GO annotation, KEGG and STRING analyses were carried out on the screened differentially altered proteins. The main biological processes involved included carbohydrate metabolic processes, DNA metabolic processes, cellular protein modification processes and homeostatic processes. The majority of KEGG pathways were found to be related to the metabolic pathways, lysosome pathway and protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum. Moreover, all ES protein expression levels involved in the lysosome pathway were significantly higher in the T4USA isolate than in the other two isolates. We also found differences in the expression of some important immunoregulatory proteins, such as protein disulfide-isomerase, thioredoxin protein and deoxyribonuclease-2-alpha, between different isolates of T. pseudospiralis ML. Flow cytometry was used to detect the increase in the CD4+/CD8 + T-cell ratio in pig peripheral blood and to verify the effect of T. pseudospiralis on the Th1/Th2 polarization of the host. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis also confirmed that the changes in the transcriptional level of genes were consistent with those at the proteomic level. These findings reveal the possible role of significantly differentially expressed proteins in ES products of the different isolates of T. pseudospiralis in antagonizing and participating in the regulation of the host immune response and maintaining a stable growth environment.
PXD015060	32371496	Inhibition of Hsp90 in the spinal cord enhances the antinociceptive effects of morphine by activating an ERK-RSK pathway. 	Inhibition of spinal cord Hsp90 enhances morphine anti-nociception by activating an ERK/RSK pathway	ERK, Hsp90, anti-nociception, spinal cord	Morphine and other opioids are commonly used to treat pain despite their numerous adverse side effects. Modulating mu-opioid receptor (MOR) signaling is one way to potentially improve opioid therapy. In mice, the chaperone protein Hsp90 mediates MOR signaling within the brain. Here, we found that inhibiting Hsp90 specifically in the spinal cord enhanced the antinociceptive effects of morphine in mice. Intrathecal, but not systemic, administration of the Hsp90 inhibitors 17-AAG or KU-32 amplified the effects of morphine in suppressing sensitivity to both thermal and mechanical stimuli in mice. Hsp90 inhibition enabled opioid-induced phosphorylation of the kinase ERK and increased abundance of the kinase RSK in the dorsal horns of the spinal cord, which are heavily populated with primary afferent sensory neurons. The additive effects of Hsp90 inhibition were abolished upon intrathecal inhibition of ERK, RSK, or protein synthesis. This mechanism downstream of MOR, localized to the spinal cord and repressed by Hsp90, may potentially be used to enhance the efficacy and presumably decrease the side effects of opioid therapy.
PXD016126	32371984	Saliva proteomic patterns in patients with molar incisor hypomineralization. 	Saliva proteomic patterns in patients with and without molar incisor hypomineralization Proteins exclusively detected in MIH saliva in molar incisor hypomineralization: a proteomic profiling	Hypomineralization, Saliva	Molar incisor hypomineralization (MIH) is an endemic pediatric disease with an unclear pathogenesis. Considering that saliva controls enamel remineralization and that MIH is associated with higher saliva flow rate, we hypothesized that the protein composition of saliva is linked to disease. To test this, we enrolled 5 children aged 6-14 years with MIH showing at least one hypersensitive molar and 5 caries-free children without hypomineralization. Saliva samples were subjected to proteomic analysis followed by protein classification in to biological pathways. Among 618 salivary proteins identified with high confidence, 88 proteins were identified exclusively in MIH patients and 16 proteins in healthy controls only. Biological pathway analysis classified these 88 patient-only proteins to neutrophil-mediated adaptive immunity, the activation of the classical pathway of complement activation, extracellular matrix degradation, heme scavenging as well as glutathione -and drug metabolism. The 16 controls-only proteins were associated with adaptive immunity related to platelet degranulation and the lysosome. This report suggests that the proteaneous composition of saliva is affected in MIH patients, reflecting a catabolic environment which is linked to inflammation.
PXD015934	32372706	Berberine and its structural analogs have differing effects on functional profiles of individual gut microbiomes. 	Effect of berberine analogues on functional profiles of human gut microbiomes	Akkermansia, berberine, butyrate, functionality, gut microbiome, metaproteomics	The understanding of the effects of compounds on the gut microbiome is limited. In particular, it is unclear whether structurally similar compounds would have similar or distinct effects on the gut microbiome. Here, we selected berberine (BBR), an isoquinoline quaternary alkaloid, and 16 structural analogs and evaluated their effects on seven individual gut microbiomes cultured in vitro. The responses of the individual microbiomes were evaluated by metaproteomic profiles and by assessing butyrate production. We show that both interindividual differences and compound treatments significantly contributed to the variance of metaproteomic profiles. BBR and eight analogs led to changes in proteins involved in microbial defense and stress responses and enrichment of proteins from Verrucomicrobia, Proteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes phyla. It also led to a decrease in proteins from the Firmicutes phylum and its Clostridiales order which correlated to decrease proteins involved in the butyrate production pathway and butyrate concentration. Three of the compounds, sanguinarine, chelerythrine, and ethoxysanguinarine, activated bacterial protective mechanisms, enriched Proteobacteria, increased opacity proteins, and markedly reduced butyrate production. Dihydroberberine had a similar function to BBR in enriching the Akkermansia genus. In addition, it showed less overall adverse impacts on the functionality of the gut microbiome, including a better maintenance of the butyrate level. Our study shows that ex vivo microbiome assay can assess differential regulating effects of compounds with subtle differences and reveals that compound analogs can have distinct effects on the microbiome.
PXD015577	32372920	Calsequestrins New Calcium Store Markers of Adult Zebrafish Cerebellum and Optic Tectum. 	Calsequestrins make the difference in adult  zebrafish brain	Calsequestrin, Danio rerio, adult, cerebellum	Calcium stores in neurons are heterogeneous in compartmentalization and molecular composition. Danio rerio (zebrafish) is an animal model with a simply folded cerebellum similar in cellular organization to that of mammals. The aim of the study was to identify new endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium store markers in zebrafish adult brain with emphasis on cerebellum and optic tectum. By quantitative polymerase chain reaction, we found three RNA transcripts coding for the intra-ER calcium binding protein calsequestrin: casq1a, casq1b, and casq2. In brain homogenates, two isoforms were detected by mass spectrometry and western blotting. Fractionation experiments of whole brain revealed that Casq1a and Casq2 were enriched in a heavy fraction containing ER microsomes and synaptic membranes. By in situ hybridization, we found the heterogeneous expression of casq1a and casq2 mRNA to be compatible with the cellular localization of calsequestrins investigated by immunofluorescence. Casq1 was expressed in neurogenic differentiation 1 expressing the granule cells of the cerebellum and the periventricular zone of the optic tectum. Casq2 was concentrated in parvalbumin expressing Purkinje cells. At a subcellular level, Casq1 was restricted to granular cell bodies, and Casq2 was localized in cell bodies, dendrites, and axons. Data are discussed in relation to the differential cellular and subcellular distribution of other cerebellum calcium store markers and are evaluated with respect to the putative relevance of calsequestrins in the neuron-specific functional activity.
PXD017522	32372958	Cajanin Stilbene Acid Inhibited Vancomycin-Resistant Enterococcus by Inhibiting Phosphotransferase System. 	Cajanin Stilbene Acid Inhibited Vancomycin-Resistant Enterococci By Inhibiting Phosphotransferase System	Cajanin Stilbene Acid, Phosphotransferase System, Vancomycin-resistant Enterococci	Antimicrobial resistance has become a serious threat to human and animal health, and vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus has become an important nosocomial infection pathogen, causing thousands of deaths each year. In this study, after screening a variety of natural products, we found that cajanin stilbene acid (CSA) had significant inhibitory effect on sensitive and vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE) in vitro. And we also confirmed that CSA had significant anti-VRE infection ability in vivo. Subsequently, we studied the antibacterial mechanism of CSA through proteomics experiments, and the results showed that CSA killed Enterococcus by inhibiting the phosphotransferase system of Enterococcus, thus hinders the normal growth and metabolic functions of bacteria. The results of this study provided evidence for the in-depth study on the mechanism of the antibacterial action of CSA and also provided a candidate for the development of anti-VRE drugs.
PXD015141	32373211	Marizomib suppresses triple-negative breast cancer via proteasome and oxidative phosphorylation inhibition. 	Marizomib eradicates primary and metastatic triple-negative breast cancer via proteasome and oxidative phosphorylation inhibition	Marizomib, OXPHOS, TNBC	Purpose: Lacking effective targeted therapies, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBCs) is highly aggressive and metastatic disease, and remains clinically challenging breast cancer subtype to treat. Despite the survival dependency on the proteasome pathway genes, FDA-approved proteasome inhibitors induced minimal clinical response in breast cancer patients due to weak proteasome inhibition. Hence, developing effective targeted therapy using potent proteasome inhibitor is required. Methods: We evaluated anti-cancer activity of a potent proteasome inhibitor, marizomib, in vitro using breast cancer lines and in vivo using 4T1.2 murine syngeneic model, MDA-MB-231 xenografts, and patient-derived tumor xenografts. Global proteome profiling, western blots, and RT-qPCR were used to investigate the mechanism of action for marizomib. Effect of marizomib on lung and brain metastasis was evaluated using syngeneic 4T1BR4 murine TNBC model in vivo. Results: We show that marizomib inhibits multiple proteasome catalytic activities and induces a better anti-tumor response in TNBC cell lines and patient-derived xenografts alone and in combination with the standard-of-care chemotherapy. Mechanistically, we show that marizomib is a dual inhibitor of proteasome and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in TNBCs. Marizomib reduces lung and brain metastases by reducing the number of circulating tumor cells and the expression of genes involved in the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. We demonstrate that marizomib-induced OXPHOS inhibition upregulates glycolysis to meet the energetic demands of TNBC cells and combined inhibition of glycolysis with marizomib leads to a synergistic anti-cancer activity. Conclusions: Our data provide a strong rationale for a clinical evaluation of marizomib in primary and metastatic TNBC patients.
PXD016805	32374750	Comparison of a human neuronal model proteome upon Japanese encephalitis or West Nile Virus infection and potential role of mosquito saliva in neuropathogenesis. 	Comparison of the Human Neuronal Proteome upon Japanese Encephalitis or West Nile Virus Infection and potential role of mosquito saliva in neuropathogenesis	Japanese encephalitis, Label Free, West Nile, mosquito	Neurotropic flavivirus Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) and West Nile virus (WNV) are amongst the leading causes of encephalitis. Using label-free quantitative proteomics, we identified proteins differentially expressed upon JEV (gp-3, RP9) or WNV (IS98) infection of human neuroblastoma cells. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016805. Both viruses were associated with the up-regulation of immune response (IFIT1/3/5, ISG15, OAS, STAT1, IRF9) and the down-regulation of SSBP2 and PAM, involved in gene expression and in neuropeptide amidation respectively. Proteins associated to membranes, involved in extracellular matrix organization and collagen metabolism represented major clusters down-regulated by JEV and WNV. Moreover, transcription regulation and mRNA processing clusters were also heavily regulated by both viruses. The proteome of neuroblastoma cells infected by JEV or WNV was significantly modulated in the presence of mosquito saliva, but distinct patterns were associated to each virus. Mosquito saliva favored modulation of proteins associated with gene regulation in JEV infected neuroblastoma cells while modulation of proteins associated with protein maturation, signal transduction and ion transporters was found in WNV infected neuroblastoma cells.
PXD018080	32375055	GDE2-Dependent Activation of Canonical Wnt Signaling in Neurons Regulates Oligodendrocyte Maturation. 	GDE2-dependent activation of canonical Wnt signaling in neurons regulates	GDE2, Wnt signaling, oligodendrocyte	Neurons and oligodendrocytes communicate to regulate oligodendrocyte development and ensure appropriate axonal myelination. Here, we show that Glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase 2 (GDE2) signaling underlies a neuronal pathway that promotes oligodendrocyte maturation through the release of soluble neuronally derived factors. Mice lacking global or neuronal GDE2 expression have reduced mature oligodendrocytes and myelin proteins but retain normal numbers of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). Wild-type (WT) OPCs cultured in conditioned medium (CM) from Gde2-null (Gde2KO) neurons exhibit delayed maturation, recapitulating in vivo phenotypes. Gde2KO neurons show robust reduction in canonical Wnt signaling, and genetic activation of Wnt signaling in Gde2KO neurons rescues in vivo and in vitro oligodendrocyte maturation. Phosphacan, a known stimulant of oligodendrocyte maturation, is reduced in CM from Gde2KO neurons but is restored when Wnt signaling is activated. These studies identify GDE2 control of Wnt signaling as a neuronal pathway that signals to oligodendroglia to promote oligodendrocyte maturation.
PXD018214	32375062	Low-Dose Sorafenib Acts as a Mitochondrial Uncoupler and Ameliorates Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis. 	Phospho-proteomic analysis of palmitate (PA)-treated L02 cells w/wo sorafenib treatment	L02 cell line, label-free	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is becoming one of the leading causes of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Sorafenib is the only first-line therapy for advanced HCC despite its serious adverse effects. Here, we report that at an equivalent of approximately one-tenth the clinical dose for HCC, sorafenib treatment effectively prevents the progression of NASH in both mice and monkeys without any observed significant adverse events. Mechanistically, sorafenib's benefit in NASH is independent of its canonical kinase targets in HCC, but involves the induction of mild mitochondrial uncoupling and subsequent activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Collectively, our findings demonstrate a previously unappreciated therapeutic effect and signaling mechanism of low-dose sorafenib treatment in NASH. We envision that this new therapeutic strategy for NASH has the potential to translate into a beneficial anti-NASH therapy with fewer adverse events than is observed in the drug's current use in HCC.
PXD017934	32376616	Proteomics of Campylobacter jejuni Growth in Deoxycholate Reveals Cj0025c as a Cystine Transport Protein Required for Wild-type Human Infection Phenotypes. 	Proteomics of Campylobacter jejuni grown in deoxycholate and following gene deletion	Campylobacter, nutrient uptake, pathogenesis, sulfur	Campylobacter jejuni is a major cause of food-borne gastroenteritis. Proteomics by label-based two-dimensional liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) identified proteins associated with growth in 0.1% sodium deoxycholate (DOC, a component of gut bile salts), and system-wide validation was performed by data-independent acquisition (DIA-SWATH-MS). LC-MS/MS quantified 1326 proteins (~82% of the predicted C. jejuni proteome), of which 1104 were validated in additional biological replicates by DIA-SWATH-MS. DOC resulted in a profound proteome shift with 512 proteins showing significantly altered abundance. Induced proteins were associated with flagellar motility and antibiotic resistance; and these correlated with increased DOC motility and resistance to polymyxin B and ciprofloxacin. DOC also increased human Caco-2 cell adherence and invasion. Abundances of proteins involved in nutrient transport were altered by DOC and aligned with intracellular changes to their respective carbon sources. DOC increased intracellular levels of sulfur-containing amino acids (cysteine and methionine) and the dipeptide cystine (Cys-Cys), which also correlated with reduced resistance to oxidative stress. A DOC induced transport protein was Cj0025c, which has sequence similarity to bacterial Cys-Cys transporters. Deletion of cj0025c (Deltacj0025c) resulted in proteome changes consistent with sulfur starvation, as well as attenuated invasion, reduced motility, atypical morphology, increased antimicrobial susceptibility and poor biofilm formation. Targeted metabolomics showed Deltacj0025c could use known C. jejuni amino and organic acid substrates commensurate with wild-type. Medium Cys-Cys levels however, were maintained in Deltacj0025c relative to wild-type. A toxic Cys-Cys mimic (selenocystine) inhibited wild-type growth, but not Deltacj0025c Provision of an alternate sulfur source (2 mm thiosulfate) restored Deltacj0025c motility. Our data confirm that Cj0025c is a Cys-Cys transporter that we have named TcyP consistent with the nomenclature of homologous proteins in other species.
PXD018554	32376681	The FOXJ1 target Cfap206 is required for sperm motility, mucociliary clearance of the airways and brain development. 	Identification of the Cfap206 interactome from mouse testis to identify its role in cilia function	Cfap206, mouse testis	Cilia are complex cellular protrusions consisting of hundreds of proteins. Defects in ciliary structure and function, many of which have not been characterised molecularly, cause ciliopathies: a heterogeneous group of human syndromes. Here, we report on the FOXJ1 target gene Cfap206, orthologues of which so far have only been studied in Chlamydomonas and Tetrahymena In mouse and Xenopus, Cfap206 was co-expressed with and dependent on Foxj1 CFAP206 protein localised to the basal body and to the axoneme of motile cilia. In Xenopus crispant larvae, the ciliary beat frequency of skin multiciliated cells was enhanced and bead transport across the epidermal mucociliary epithelium was reduced. Likewise, Cfap206 knockout mice revealed ciliary phenotypes. Electron tomography of immotile knockout mouse sperm flagella indicated a role in radial spoke formation reminiscent of FAP206 function in Tetrahymena Male infertility, hydrocephalus and impaired mucociliary clearance of the airways in the absence of laterality defects in Cfap206 mutant mice suggests that Cfap206 may represent a candidate for the subgroup of human primary ciliary dyskinesias caused by radial spoke defects.
PXD019386	32376785	OPTN recruitment to a Golgi-proximal compartment regulates immune signalling and cytokine secretion. 	The OPTN interactome using BioID	BioID, OPTN	Optineurin (OPTN) is a multifunctional protein involved in autophagy and secretion, as well as nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and IRF3 signalling, and OPTN mutations are associated with several human diseases. Here, we show that, in response to viral RNA, OPTN translocates to foci in the perinuclear region, where it negatively regulates NF-kappaB and IRF3 signalling pathways and downstream pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. These OPTN foci consist of a tight cluster of small membrane vesicles, which are positive for ATG9A. Disease mutations in OPTN linked to primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) cause aberrant foci formation in the absence of stimuli, which correlates with the ability of OPTN to inhibit signalling. By using proximity labelling proteomics, we identify the linear ubiquitin assembly complex (LUBAC), CYLD and TBK1 as part of the OPTN interactome and show that these proteins are recruited to this OPTN-positive perinuclear compartment. Our work uncovers a crucial role for OPTN in dampening NF-kappaB and IRF3 signalling through the sequestration of LUBAC and other positive regulators in this viral RNA-induced compartment, leading to altered pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion.
PXD017806	32376827	Disruption of ATRX-RNA interactions uncovers roles in ATRX localization and PRC2 function. 	Mapping RNA interactions of human ATRX with RepA fragment of Xist	RBRID, RNA-binding, RNA-protein interactions	Heterochromatin in the eukaryotic genome is rigorously controlled by the concerted action of protein factors and RNAs. Here, we investigate the RNA binding function of ATRX, a chromatin remodeler with roles in silencing of repetitive regions of the genome and in recruitment of the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2). We identify ATRX RNA binding regions (RBRs) and discover that the major ATRX RBR lies within the N-terminal region of the protein, distinct from its PHD and helicase domains. Deletion of this ATRX RBR (ATRXDeltaRBR) compromises ATRX interactions with RNAs in vitro and in vivo and alters its chromatin binding properties. Genome-wide studies reveal that loss of RNA interactions results in a redistribution of ATRX on chromatin. Finally, our studies identify a role for ATRX-RNA interactions in regulating PRC2 localization to a subset of polycomb target genes.
PXD017353	32376942	Cryo-electron microscopy reveals two distinct type IV pili assembled by the same bacterium. 	A new twist   on bacterial motility - two distinct type IV pili revealed by cryoEM	Type IV pili, electron cryo-microscopy, electron cryo-tomography, flexible filaments, pilin	Type IV pili are flexible filaments on the surface of bacteria, consisting of a helical assembly of pilin proteins. They are involved in bacterial motility (twitching), surface adhesion, biofilm formation and DNA uptake (natural transformation). Here, we use cryo-electron microscopy and mass spectrometry to show that the bacterium Thermus thermophilus produces two forms of type IV pilus ('wide' and 'narrow'), differing in structure and protein composition. Wide pili are composed of the major pilin PilA4, while narrow pili are composed of a so-far uncharacterized pilin which we name PilA5. Functional experiments indicate that PilA4 is required for natural transformation, while PilA5 is important for twitching motility.
PXD017587	32378324	Proteostasis disturbances and endoplasmic reticulum stress contribute to polycystic liver disease: New therapeutic targets. 	Proteostasis disturbances and endoplasmic reticulum stress contribute to polycystic liver disease: new therapeutic targets.	4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA), Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress), Human and rat cholangiocytes, PEAKSQ, Perseus., Polycystic Liver Disease (PLD), TIMS-TOF PASEF, Whole cell extracts, proteostasis	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Polycystic liver diseases (PLDs) are genetic disorders characterized by progressive development of multiple biliary cysts. Recently, novel PLD-causative genes, encoding for endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident proteins involved in protein biogenesis and transport, were identified. We hypothesized that aberrant proteostasis contributes to PLD pathogenesis, representing a potential therapeutic target. METHODS: ER stress was analysed at transcriptional (qPCR), proteomic (mass spectrometry), morphological (transmission electron microscopy, TEM) and functional (proteasome activity) levels in different PLD models. The effect of ER stress inhibitors [4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA)] and/or activators [tunicamycin (TM)] was tested in polycystic (PCK) rats and cystic cholangiocytes in vitro. RESULTS: The expression levels of unfolded protein response (UPR) components were upregulated in liver tissue from PLD patients and PCK rats, as well as in primary cultures of human and rat cystic cholangiocytes, compared to normal controls. Cystic cholangiocytes showed altered proteomic profiles, mainly related to proteostasis (ie synthesis, folding, trafficking and degradation of proteins), marked enlargement of the ER lumen (by TEM) and hyperactivation of the proteasome. Notably, chronic treatment of PCK rats with 4-PBA decreased liver weight, as well as both liver and cystic volumes, of animals under baseline conditions or after TM administration compared to controls. In vitro, 4-PBA downregulated the expression (mRNA) of UPR effectors, normalized proteomic profiles related to protein synthesis, folding, trafficking and degradation and reduced the proteasome hyperactivity in cystic cholangiocytes, reducing their hyperproliferation and apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: Restoration of proteostasis in cystic cholangiocytes with 4-PBA halts hepatic cystogenesis, emerging as a novel therapeutic strategy.
PXD018021	32378798	Cystatin B is essential for proliferation and interneuron migration in individuals with EPM1 epilepsy. 	Cystatin B is essential for proliferation and interneuron migration in individuals with EPM1 epilepsy	cystatin B, human cerebral organoids, progressive myoclonus epilepsy	Progressive myoclonus epilepsy (PME) of Unverricht-Lundborg type (EPM1) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder with the highest incidence of PME worldwide. Mutations in the gene encoding cystatin B (CSTB) are the primary genetic cause of EPM1. Here, we investigate the role of CSTB during neurogenesis in vivo in the developing mouse brain and in vitro in human cerebral organoids (hCOs) derived from EPM1 patients. We find that CSTB (but not one of its pathological variants) is secreted into the mouse cerebral spinal fluid and the conditioned media from hCOs. In embryonic mouse brain, we find that functional CSTB influences progenitors' proliferation and modulates neuronal distribution by attracting interneurons to the site of secretion via cell-non-autonomous mechanisms. Similarly, in patient-derived hCOs, low levels of functional CSTB result in an alteration of progenitor's proliferation, premature differentiation, and changes in interneurons migration. Secretion and extracellular matrix organization are the biological processes particularly affected as suggested by a proteomic analysis in patients' hCOs. Overall, our study sheds new light on the cellular mechanisms underlying the development of EPM1.
PXD013340	32378902	Impact of Increased FUT8 Expression on the Extracellular Vesicle Proteome in Prostate Cancer Cells. 	Impact of increased core fucosylation on the exosome proteome in prostate cancer	cancer, exosomes, glycoproteomics, glycosylation	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in intercellular communication, transporting proteins and nucleic acids to proximal and distal regions. There is evidence of glycosylation influencing protein routing into EVs; however, the impact of aberrant cellular glycotransferase expression on EV protein profiles has yet to be evaluated. In this study, we paired extracellular vesicle characterization and quantitative proteomics to determine the systemic impact of altered alpha(1,6)fucosyltranferase (FUT8) expression on prostate cancer-derived EVs. Our results showed that increased cellular expression of FUT8 could reduce the number of vesicles secreted by prostate cancer cells as well as increase the abundance of proteins associated with cell motility and prostate cancer metastasis. In addition, overexpression of FUT8 resulted in altered glycans on select EV-derived glycoproteins. This study presents the first evidence of altered cellular glycosylation impacting EV protein profiles and provides further rationale for exploring the functional role of glycosylation in EV biogenesis and biology.
PXD016087	32379789	trans-Zeatin-N-glucosides have biological activity in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Trans-Zeatin-N-Glucosides have biological activity in Arabidopsis thaliana	conjugation, cytokinin glucoside, senescence, trans-zeatin, transcriptome, ytokinin	Cytokinin is an indispensable phytohormone responsible for physiological processes ranging from root development to leaf senescence. The term "cytokinin" refers to several dozen adenine-derived compounds occurring naturally in plants. Cytokinins (CKs) can be divided into various classes and forms; base forms are generally considered to be active while highly abundant cytokinin-N-glucosides (CKNGs), composed of a CK base irreversibly conjugated to a glucose molecule, are considered inactive. However, results from early CK studies suggest CKNGs do not always lack activity despite the perpetuation over several decades in the literature that they are inactive. Here we show that exogenous application of trans-Zeatin-N-glucosides (tZNGs, a specific class of CKNGs) to Arabidopsis results in CK response comparable to the application of an active CK base. These results are most apparent in senescence assays where both a CK base (tZ) and tZNGs (tZ7G, tZ9G) delay senescence in cotyledons. Further experiments involving root growth and shoot regeneration revealed tZNGs do not always have the same effects as tZ, and have largely distinct effects on the transcriptome and proteome. These data are in contrast to previous reports of CKNGs being inactive and raise questions about the function of these compounds as well as their mechanism of action.
PXD015863	32380061	Discovery of Widespread Host Protein Interactions with the Pre-replicated Genome of CHIKV Using VIR-CLASP. 	Discovery of Widespread Host Protein Interactions with the Pre-Replicated Genome of CHIKV using VIR-CLASP	Virus	The primary interactions between incoming viral RNA genomes and host proteins are crucial to infection and immunity. Until now, the ability to study these events was lacking. We developed viral cross-linking and solid-phase purification (VIR-CLASP) to characterize the earliest interactions between viral RNA and cellular proteins. We investigated the infection of human cells using Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) and influenza A virus and identified hundreds of direct RNA-protein interactions. Here, we explore the biological impact of three protein classes that bind CHIKV RNA within minutes of infection. We find CHIKV RNA binds and hijacks the lipid-modifying enzyme fatty acid synthase (FASN) for pro-viral activity. We show that CHIKV genomes are N(6)-methyladenosine modified, and YTHDF1 binds and suppresses CHIKV replication. Finally, we find that the innate immune DNA sensor IFI16 associates with CHIKV RNA, reducing viral replication and maturation. Our findings have direct applicability to the investigation of potentially all RNA viruses.
PXD015652	32381088	Flow-cytometric microglial sorting coupled with quantitative proteomics identifies moesin as a highly-abundant microglial protein with relevance to Alzheimer's disease. 	Comparison of microglial proteomes of MACS and FACS-based purified CD11b+ microglia	FACS, MACS, TMT, mouse acutely purified brain-associated microglia	BACKGROUND: Proteomic characterization of microglia provides the most proximate assessment of functionally relevant molecular mechanisms of neuroinflammation. However, microglial proteomics studies have been limited by low cellular yield and contamination by non-microglial proteins using existing enrichment strategies. METHODS: We coupled magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS) and fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) of microglia with tandem mass tag-mass spectrometry (TMT-MS) to obtain a highly-pure microglial proteome and identified a core set of highly-abundant microglial proteins in adult mouse brain. We interrogated existing human proteomic data for Alzheimer's disease (AD) relevance of highly-abundant microglial proteins and performed immuno-histochemical and in-vitro validation studies. RESULTS: Quantitative multiplexed proteomics by TMT-MS of CD11b + MACS-enriched (N = 5 mice) and FACS-isolated (N = 5 mice), from adult wild-type mice, identified 1791 proteins. A total of 203 proteins were highly abundant in both datasets, representing a core-set of highly abundant microglial proteins. In addition, we found 953 differentially enriched proteins comparing MACS and FACS-based approaches, indicating significant differences between both strategies. The FACS-isolated microglia proteome was enriched with cytosolic, endoplasmic reticulum, and ribosomal proteins involved in protein metabolism and immune system functions, as well as an abundance of canonical microglial proteins. Conversely, the MACS-enriched microglia proteome was enriched with mitochondrial and synaptic proteins and higher abundance of neuronal, oligodendrocytic and astrocytic proteins. From the 203 consensus microglial proteins with high abundance in both datasets, we confirmed microglial expression of moesin (Msn) in wild-type and 5xFAD mouse brains as well as in human AD brains. Msn expression is nearly exclusively found in microglia that surround Abeta plaques in 5xFAD brains. In in-vitro primary microglial studies, Msn silencing by siRNA decreased Abeta phagocytosis and increased lipopolysaccharide-induced production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor (TNF). In network analysis of human brain proteomic data, Msn was a hub protein of an inflammatory co-expression module positively associated with AD neuropathological features and cognitive dysfunction. CONCLUSIONS: Using FACS coupled with TMT-MS as the method of choice for microglial proteomics, we define a core set of highly-abundant adult microglial proteins. Among these, we validate Msn as highly-abundant in plaque-associated microglia with relevance to human AD.
PXD016147	32381600	ADCK4 Deficiency Destabilizes the Coenzyme Q Complex, Which Is Rescued by 2,4-Dihydroxybenzoic Acid Treatment. 	BAP and ADCK4 interactor proteomic data LC-MS/MS	ADCK4, BAP, FLAG, IP	BACKGROUND: Mutations in ADCK4 (aarF domain containing kinase 4) generally manifest as steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome and induce coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) deficiency. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome resulting from ADCK4 mutations are not well understood, largely because the function of ADCK4 remains unknown. METHODS: To elucidate the ADCK4's function in podocytes, we generated a podocyte-specific, Adck4-knockout mouse model and a human podocyte cell line featuring knockout of ADCK4. These knockout mice and podocytes were then treated with 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,4-diHB), a CoQ10 precursor analogue, or with a vehicle only. We also performed proteomic mass spectrometry analysis to further elucidate ADCK4's function. RESULTS: Absence of Adck4 in mouse podocytes caused FSGS and albuminuria, recapitulating features of nephrotic syndrome caused by ADCK4 mutations. In vitro studies revealed that ADCK4-knockout podocytes had significantly reduced CoQ10 concentration, respiratory chain activity, and mitochondrial potential, and subsequently displayed an increase in the number of dysmorphic mitochondria. However, treatment of 3-month-old knockout mice or ADCK4-knockout cells with 2,4-diHB prevented the development of renal dysfunction and reversed mitochondrial dysfunction in podocytes. Moreover, ADCK4 interacted with mitochondrial proteins such as COQ5, as well as cytoplasmic proteins such as myosin and heat shock proteins. Thus, ADCK4 knockout decreased the COQ complex level, but overexpression of ADCK4 in ADCK4-knockout podocytes transfected with wild-type ADCK4 rescued the COQ5 level. CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that ADCK4 is required for CoQ10 biosynthesis and mitochondrial function in podocytes, and suggests that ADCK4 in podocytes stabilizes proteins in complex Q in podocytes. Our study also suggests a potential treatment strategy for nephrotic syndrome resulting from ADCK4 mutations.
PXD017537	32383290	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Seminal Plasma, Sperm Membrane Proteins, and Seminal Extracellular Vesicles Suggests Vesicular Mechanisms Aid in the Removal and Addition of Proteins to the Ram Sperm Membrane. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of seminal plasma, sperm membrane proteins and seminal extracellular vesicles suggests vesicular mechanisms aid in the removal and addition of proteins to the ram sperm membrane.	EDIL3, epididysomes, microvesicles, prostasomes, sperm surface	Quantitative proteomic studies are contributing greatly to the understanding of the spermatozoon through the provision of detailed information on the proteins spermatozoa acquire and shed in the acquisition of fertility. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are thought to aid in the delivery of proteins to spermatozoa in the male reproductive tract. The aim of this study is to isolate, identify and quantify EV proteins isolated from ram seminal plasma. Ram sperm plasma membrane proteins are also isolated using nitrogen cavitation and identified to better understand the interplay of proteins between the sperm membrane and extracellular environment. The categorization of proteins enriched in the EV population according to their function revealed three main groupings: vesicle biogenesis, metabolism, and membrane adhesion and remodeling. The latter group contains many reproduction-specific proteins that show demonstrable links to sperm fertility. Many of these membrane-bound proteins show testicular expression and are shed from the sperm surface during epididymal maturation (e.g., testis expressed 101; TEX101 and lymphocyte Antigen 6 Family Member K; LY6K). Their association with seminal EVs suggests that EVs may not only deliver protein cargo to spermatozoa but also assist in the removal of proteins from the sperm membrane.
PXD013517	32383752	Regulation of mRNA export through API5 and nuclear FGF2 interaction. 	LC-MSMS analysis of API5-FGF2 interactome	API5, FGF2, LC-MS	API5 (APoptosis Inhibitor 5) and nuclear FGF2 (Fibroblast Growth Factor 2) are upregulated in various human cancers and are correlated with poor prognosis. Although their physical interaction has been identified, the function related to the resulting complex is unknown. Here, we determined the crystal structure of the API5-FGF2 complex and identified critical residues driving the protein interaction. These findings provided a structural basis for the nuclear localization of the FGF2 isoform lacking a canonical nuclear localization signal and identified a cryptic nuclear localization sequence in FGF2. The interaction between API5 and FGF2 was important for mRNA nuclear export through both the TREX and eIF4E/LRPPRC mRNA export complexes, thus regulating the export of bulk mRNA and specific mRNAs containing eIF4E sensitivity elements, such as c-MYC and cyclin D1. These data show the newly identified molecular function of API5 and nuclear FGF2, and provide a clue to understanding the dynamic regulation of mRNA export.
PXD018604	32385109	Differences and commonalities in plasma membrane recruitment of the two morphogenetically distinct retroviruses HIV-1 and MMTV. 	Differences and commonalities in plasma membrane recruitment of the two morphogenetically distinct retroviruses HIV-1 and MMTV	HIV-1, MMTV, covalent labeling-mass spectrometry, matrix protein	Retroviral Gag polyproteins are targeted to the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane through their N-terminal matrix (MA) domain. Because retroviruses of different morphogenetic types assemble their immature particles in distinct regions of the host cell, the mechanism of MA-mediated plasma membrane targeting differs among distinct retroviral morphogenetic types. Here, we focused on possible mechanistic differences of the MA-mediated plasma membrane targeting of the B-type mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) and C-type HIV-1, which assemble in the cytoplasm and at the plasma membrane, respectively. Molecular dynamics simulations, together with surface mapping, indicated that, similarly to HIV-1, MMTV uses a myristic switch to anchor the MA to the membrane and electrostatically interacts with phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate to stabilize MA orientation. We observed that the affinity of MMTV MA to the membrane is lower than that of HIV-1 MA, possibly related to their different topologies and the number of basic residues in the highly basic MA region. The latter probably reflects the requirement of C-type retroviruses for tighter membrane binding, essential for assembly, unlike for D/B-type retroviruses, which assemble in the cytoplasm. A comparison of the membrane topology of the HIV-1 MA, using the surface-mapping method and molecular dynamics simulations, revealed that the residues at the HIV-1 MA C terminus help stabilize protein-protein interactions within the HIV-1 MA lattice at the plasma membrane. In summary, HIV-1 and MMTV share common features such as membrane binding of the MA via hydrophobic interactions and exhibit several differences, including lower membrane affinity of MMTV MA.
PXD018449	32385243	p85beta regulates autophagic degradation of AXL to activate oncogenic signaling. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of signaling downstream of p85beta	PI3K, Phosphoproteomics, p85	PIK3R2 encodes the p85beta regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and is frequently amplified in cancers. The signaling mechanism and therapeutic implication of p85beta are poorly understood. Here we report that p85beta upregulates the protein level of the receptor tyrosine kinase AXL to induce oncogenic signaling in ovarian cancer. p85beta activates p110 activity and AKT-independent PDK1/SGK3 signaling to promote tumorigenic phenotypes, which are all abolished upon inhibition of AXL. At the molecular level, p85beta alters the phosphorylation of TRIM2 (an E3 ligase) and optineurin (an autophagy receptor), which mediate the selective regulation of AXL by p85beta, thereby disrupting the autophagic degradation of the AXL protein. Therapeutically, p85beta expression renders ovarian cancer cells vulnerable to inhibitors of AXL, p110, or PDK1. Conversely, p85beta-depleted cells are less sensitive to these inhibitors. Together, our findings provide a rationale for pharmacological blockade of the AXL signaling axis in PIK3R2-amplified ovarian cancer.
PXD015392	32385295	Flexibility of intrinsically disordered degrons in AUX/IAA proteins reinforces auxin co-receptor assemblies. 	Degron flexibility enforces auxin sensing	AUX/IAA, SCFTIR1, allostery, auxin, degron, intrinsic disorder, phytohormones	Cullin RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligases SCF(TIR1/AFB1-5) and their AUX/IAA targets perceive the phytohormone auxin. The F-box protein TIR1 binds a surface-exposed degron in AUX/IAAs promoting their ubiquitylation and rapid auxin-regulated proteasomal degradation. Here, by adopting biochemical, structural proteomics and in vivo approaches we unveil how flexibility in AUX/IAAs and regions in TIR1 affect their conformational ensemble allowing surface accessibility of degrons. We resolve TIR1.auxin.IAA7 and TIR1.auxin.IAA12 complex topology, and show that flexible intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) in the degron's vicinity, cooperatively position AUX/IAAs on TIR1. We identify essential residues at the TIR1 N- and C-termini, which provide non-native interaction interfaces with IDRs and the folded PB1 domain of AUX/IAAs. We thereby establish a role for IDRs in modulating auxin receptor assemblies. By securing AUX/IAAs on two opposite surfaces of TIR1, IDR diversity supports locally tailored positioning for targeted ubiquitylation, and might provide conformational flexibility for a multiplicity of functional states.
PXD015209	32385587	The secreted inhibitor of invasive cell growth CREG1 is negatively regulated by cathepsin proteases. 	Cathepsin B and Cathepsin Z tumor secretome of murine breast cancers	CCM, Secretome, Tumor interstitial fluid	Previous clinical and experimental evidence strongly supports a breast cancer-promoting function of the lysosomal protease cathepsin B. However, the cathepsin B-dependent molecular pathways are not completely understood. Here, we studied the cathepsin-mediated secretome changes in the context of the MMTV-PyMT breast cancer mouse model. Employing the cell-conditioned media from tumor-macrophage co-cultures, as well as tumor interstitial fluid obtained by a novel strategy from PyMT mice with differential cathepsin B expression, we identified an important proteolytic and lysosomal signature, highlighting the importance of this organelle and these enzymes in the tumor micro-environment. The Cellular Repressor of E1A Stimulated Genes 1 (CREG1), a secreted endolysosomal glycoprotein, displayed reduced abundance upon over-expression of cathepsin B as well as increased abundance upon cathepsin B deletion or inhibition. Moreover, it was cleaved by cathepsin B in vitro. CREG1 reportedly could act as tumor suppressor. We show that treatment of PyMT tumor cells with recombinant CREG1 reduced proliferation, migration, and invasion; whereas, the opposite was observed with reduced CREG1 expression. This was further validated in vivo by orthotopic transplantation. Our study highlights CREG1 as a key player in tumor-stroma interaction and suggests that cathepsin B sustains malignant cell behavior by reducing the levels of the growth suppressor CREG1 in the tumor microenvironment.
PXD048006	32387766	In-depth mining of the immunopeptidome of an acute myeloid leukemia cell line using complementary ligand enrichment and data acquisition strategies. 	pXg: Comprehensive identification of noncanonical MHC-I-associated peptides from de novo peptide sequencing using RNA-Seq reads	immunopeptidomics	The identification of T cell epitopes derived from tumour specific antigens remains a significant challenge for the development of peptide-based vaccines and immunotherapies. The use of mass spectrometry-based approaches (immunopeptidomics) can provide powerful new avenues for the identification of such epitopes. In this study we report the use of complementary peptide antigen enrichment methods and a comprehensive mass spectrometric acquisition strategy to provide in-depth immunopeptidome data for the THP-1 cell line, a cell line used widely as a model of human leukaemia. To accomplish this, we combined robust experimental workflows that incorporated ultrafiltration or off-line reversed phase chromatography to enrich peptide ligand as well as a multifaceted data acquisition strategy using an Orbitrap Fusion LC-MS instrument. Using the combined datasets from the two ligand enrichment methods we gained significant depth in immunopeptidome coverage by identifying a total of 41,816 HLA class I peptides from THP-1 cells, including a significant number of peptides derived from different oncogenes or over expressed proteins associated with cancer. The physicochemical properties of the HLA-bound peptides dictated their recovery using the two ligand enrichment approaches and their distribution across the different precursor charge states considered in the data acquisition strategy. The data highlight the complementarity of the two enrichment procedures, and in cases where sample is not limiting, suggest that the combination of both approaches will yield the most comprehensive immunopeptidome information.
PXD011178	32388983	Unambiguous Phosphosite Localization through the Combination of Trypsin and LysargiNase Mirror Spectra in a Large-Scale Phosphoproteome Study. 	The use of LysargiNase complementary to trypsin in large scale phosphoproteome study for unambiguous phosphosite localization	LysargiNase, phosphoproteome, phosphosite localization	Understanding of the kinase-guided signaling pathways requires the identification and analysis of phosphosites. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based phosphoproteomics is a rapid and highly sensitive approach for high-throughput identification of phosphosites. However, phosphosite determination from MS data with a single protease is more likely to be ambiguous, regardless of the strategy used for phosphopeptide detection. Here, we explored the application of LysargiNase, which was recently reported to mirror trypsin in specificity to cleave arginine and lysine residues exclusively at the N-terminal side. We found that the combination of trypsin and LysargiNase mirror spectra resulted in higher ion coverage in MS2 spectra. The median ion coverage values of b ions in tryptic spectra, LysargiNase spectra, and combined spectra are 8.3, 20.5, and 25.0%, respectively. As for the median ion coverage of y ions, these values are 27.8, 10.0, and 32.3%. Higher ion coverage was helpful to pinpoint the precise phosphosites. Compared to trypsin alone, the combined use of trypsin and LysargiNase mirror spectra enabled 67.1% of mirror spectra with unreliable scores (confidence score <0.75) to become reliable (confidence score >= 0.75). Meanwhile, all of the mirror peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs) with multiple potential phosphosites from trypsin and LysargiNase digests could be assigned one precise phosphosite after applying the combination strategy. Besides, the combination strategy could identify more novel phosphosites than the union strategy did. We synthesized three phosphopeptides corresponding to the three novel phosphosites and validated the reliability of the identification. Taken together, our data demonstrated the distinctive potential of the combination strategy presented here for unambiguous phosphosite localization (Project accession PXD011178).
PXD019204	32390412	An Azidoribose Probe to Track Ketoamine Adducts in Histone Ribose Glycation. 	An azidoribose probe to track ketoamine adducts in histone ribose glycation (293T nuclei - LFQ)	Histones, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), click chemistry, epigenetics, glycation, ribose	Reactive cellular metabolites can modify macromolecules and form adducts known as nonenzymatic covalent modifications (NECMs). The dissection of the mechanisms, regulation, and consequences of NECMs, such as glycation, has been challenging due to the complex and often ambiguous nature of the adducts formed. Specific chemical tools are required to directly track the formation of these modifications on key targets in order to uncover their underlying physiological importance. Here, we present the novel chemoenzymatic synthesis of an active azido-modified ribose analog, 5-azidoribose (5-AR), as well as the synthesis of an inactive control derivative, 1-azidoribose (1-AR), and their application toward understanding protein ribose-glycation in vitro and in cellulo. With these new probes we found that, similar to methylglyoxal (MGO) glycation, ribose glycation specifically accumulates on histones. In addition to fluorescent labeling, we demonstrate the utility of the probe in enriching modified targets, which were identified by label-free quantitative proteomics and high-resolution MS/MS workflows. Finally, we establish that the known oncoprotein and hexose deglycase, fructosamine 3-kinase (FN3K), recognizes and facilitates the removal of 5-AR glycation adducts in live cells, supporting the dynamic regulation of ribose glycation as well as validating the probe as a new platform to monitor FN3K activity. Altogether, we demonstrate this probe's utilities to uncover ribose-glycation and deglycation events as well as track FN3K activity toward establishing its potential as a new cancer vulnerability.
PXD012202	32390785	Development of a novel method for the quantification of tyrosine 39 phosphorylated alpha- and beta-synuclein in human cerebrospinal fluid. 	Development of a method for the quantification of tyrosine 39 phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in human cerebrospinal fluid	Parkinsons disease, alpha-synuclein, enrichment, parallel reaction monitoring, phosphotyrosine	BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder. Biomarkers that can help monitor the progression of PD or response to disease-modifying agents will be invaluable in making appropriate therapeutic decisions. Further, biomarkers that could be used to distinguish PD from other related disorders with PD-like symptoms will be useful for accurate diagnosis and treatment. C-Abl tyrosine kinase is activated in PD resulting in increased phosphorylation of the tyrosine residue at position 39 (Y39) of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) (pY39 alpha-syn), which contributes to the death of dopaminergic neurons. Because pY39 alpha-syn may be pathogenic, monitoring pY39 alpha-syn could allow us to diagnose presymptomatic PD and help monitor disease progression and response to treatment. We sought to investigate if increased phosphorylation of pY39 alpha-syn can be detected in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of PD patients by targeted mass spectrometry. METHODS: Here, we report a two-step enrichment method in which phosphotyrosine peptides were first enriched with an anti-phosphotyrosine antibody followed by a second round of enrichment by titanium dioxide (TiO2) beads to detect EGVLpYVGSK sequence derived from tyrosine 39 region of alpha- and beta-synuclein (alphabeta-syn). Accurate quantification was achieved by adding a synthetic heavy version of pY39 alphabeta-syn peptide before enzymatic digestion. RESULTS: Using the developed enrichment methods and optimized parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assays, we detected pY39 alphabeta-syn peptide in human CSF and demonstrated that the ratio of pY39 alphabeta-syn to Y39 alphabeta-syn was significantly increased in the CSF of patients with PD. CONCLUSIONS: We anticipate that this optimized two-step enrichment-based PRM detection method will help monitor c-Abl activation in PD patients and can also be used to quantify other phosphotyrosine peptides of low abundance in biological samples.
PXD017752	32390984	Genomic and Transcriptomic Study for Screening Genes Involved in the Limonene Biotransformation of Penicillium digitatum DSM 62840. 	Proteins differentially expressed during limonene biotransformation by Penicillium digitatum DSM 62840 were examined using iTRAQ labeling coupled with 2DLC-MS/MS	iTRAQ	alpha-Terpineol has been widely used in daily chemical, pharmaceutical, food, and flavor industries due to its pleasant odor with high economic value and pharmacological action. Our previous study showed that Penicillium digitatum DSM 62840 was an efficient biocatalyst for the transformation of limonene to alpha-terpineol. Thus, it was meaningful to explore the genome features and the gene expression differences of strain DSM 62840 during limonene biotransformation, and the detailed bioconversion pathways. In this study, the functional genes related to limonene bioconversion were investigated using genome and transcriptome sequences analysis. The results showed that the P. digitatum DSM 62840 genome was estimated to be 29.09 Mb and it encoded 9,086 protein-encoding genes. The most annotated genes were associated to some protein metabolism and energy metabolism functions. When the threshold for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) was set at twofold ratio, a total of 4,128, and 4,148 DEGs were identified in P_L_12h (limonene-treated condition) compared with P_0h (blank) and P_12h (limonene-untreated blank), respectively. Among them, the expression levels of genes involved in the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, energy metabolism and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters were significantly altered during the biotransformation. And the reliability of these results was further confirmed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Moreover, we found that the enzyme participated in limonene biotransformation was inducible. This enzyme was located in the microsome, and it was inhibited by cytochrome P450 inhibitors. This indicated that the cytochrome P450 may be responsible for the limonene bioconversion. Several differentially expressed cytochrome P450 genes were further identified, such as PDIDSM_85260 and PDIDSM_67430, which were significantly up-regulated with limonene treatment. These genes may be responsible for converting limonene to alpha-terpineol. Totally, the genomic and transcriptomic data could provide valuable information in the discovery of related-genes which was involved in limonene biotransformation, pathogenicity of fungi, and investigation of metabolites and biological pathways of strain DSM 62840.
PXD017421	32390993	Lactonase Specificity Is Key to Quorum Quenching in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Lactonase Specificity is Key to Quorum Quenching in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	AHL (N-acyl-homoserine lactone), Lactonase, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Quorum Sensing (QS), Quorum quenching (QQ), Virulence	The human opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa orchestrates the expression of many genes in a cell density-dependent manner by using quorum sensing (QS). Two acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs) are involved in QS circuits and contribute to the regulation of virulence factors production, biofilm formation, and antimicrobial sensitivity. Disrupting QS, a strategy referred to as quorum quenching (QQ) can be achieved using exogenous AHL-degrading lactonases. However, the importance of enzyme specificity on quenching efficacy has been poorly investigated. Here, we used two lactonases both targeting the signal molecules N-(3-oxododecanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (3-oxo-C12 HSL) and butyryl-homoserine lactone (C4 HSL) albeit with different efficacies on C4 HSL. Interestingly, both lactonases similarly decreased AHL concentrations and comparably impacted the expression of AHL-based QS genes. However, strong variations were observed in Pseudomonas Quinolone Signal (PQS) regulation depending on the lactonase used. Both lactonases were also found to decrease virulence factors production and biofilm formation in vitro, albeit with different efficiencies. Unexpectedly, only the lactonase with lower efficacy on C4 HSL was able to inhibit P. aeruginosa pathogenicity in vivo in an amoeba infection model. Similarly, proteomic analysis revealed large variations in protein levels involved in antibiotic resistance, biofilm formation, virulence and diverse cellular mechanisms depending on the chosen lactonase. This global analysis provides evidences that QQ enzyme specificity has a significant impact on the modulation of QS-associated behavior in P. aeruginosa PA14.
PXD015941	32391791	Insights into herpesvirus assembly from the structure of the pUL7:pUL51 complex. 	Structure of herpes simplex virus pUL7:pUL51, a conserved complex required for efficient herpesvirus assembly	Secondary envelopment, focal adhesions, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), virus budding	Herpesviruses acquire their membrane envelopes in the cytoplasm of infected cells via a molecular mechanism that remains unclear. Herpes simplex virus (HSV)-1 proteins pUL7 and pUL51 form a complex required for efficient virus envelopment. We show that interaction between homologues of pUL7 and pUL51 is conserved across human herpesviruses, as is their association with trans-Golgi membranes. We characterized the HSV-1 pUL7:pUL51 complex by solution scattering and chemical crosslinking, revealing a 1:2 complex that can form higher-order oligomers in solution, and we solved the crystal structure of the core pUL7:pUL51 heterodimer. While pUL7 adopts a previously-unseen compact fold, the helix-turn-helix conformation of pUL51 resembles the cellular endosomal complex required for transport (ESCRT)-III component CHMP4B and pUL51 forms ESCRT-III-like filaments, suggesting a direct role for pUL51 in promoting membrane scission during virus assembly. Our results provide a structural framework for understanding the role of the conserved pUL7:pUL51 complex in herpesvirus assembly.
PXD015928	32393437	Heterogeneity of proteome dynamics between connective tissue phases of adult tendon. 	Heterogeneity of proteome dynamics between connective tissue phases of adult tendon	FM, IFM, Rat tendon, protein turnover	Maintenance of connective tissue integrity is fundamental to sustain function, requiring protein turnover to repair damaged tissue. However, connective tissue proteome dynamics remain largely undefined, as do differences in turnover rates of individual proteins in the collagen and glycoprotein phases of connective tissue extracellular matrix (ECM). Here, we investigate proteome dynamics in the collagen and glycoprotein phases of connective tissues by exploiting the spatially distinct fascicular (collagen-rich) and interfascicular (glycoprotein-rich) ECM phases of tendon. Using isotope labelling, mass spectrometry and bioinformatics, we calculate turnover rates of individual proteins within rat Achilles tendon and its ECM phases. Our results demonstrate complex proteome dynamics in tendon, with ~1000 fold differences in protein turnover rates, and overall faster protein turnover within the glycoprotein-rich interfascicular matrix compared to the collagen-rich fascicular matrix. These data provide insights into the complexity of proteome dynamics in tendon, likely required to maintain tissue homeostasis.
PXD015780	32393780	Immune modulation by complement receptor 3-dependent human monocyte TGF-beta1-transporting vesicles. 	Immune modulation by complement receptor 3 (CD18/CD11b) dependent human monocyte TGF-beta1-transporting vesicles	TGF-beta1, complement receptor 3, extracellular vesicles, monocytes	Extracellular vesicles have an important function in cellular communication. Here, we show that human and mouse monocytes release TGF-beta1-transporting vesicles in response to the pathogenic fungus Candida albicans. Soluble beta-glucan from C. albicans binds to complement receptor 3 (CR3, also known as CD11b/CD18) on monocytes and induces the release of TGF-beta1-transporting vesicles. CR3-dependence is demonstrated using CR3-deficient (CD11b knockout) monocytes generated by CRISPR-CAS9 genome editing and isolated from CR3-deficient (CD11b knockout) mice. These vesicles reduce the pro-inflammatory response in human M1-macrophages as well as in whole blood. Binding of the vesicle-transported TGF-beta1 to the TGF-beta receptor inhibits IL1B transcription via the SMAD7 pathway in whole blood and induces TGFB1 transcription in endothelial cells, which is resolved upon TGF-beta1 inhibition. Notably, human complement-opsonized apoptotic bodies induce production of similar TGF-beta1-transporting vesicles in monocytes, suggesting that the early immune response might be suppressed through this CR3-dependent anti-inflammatory vesicle pathway.
PXD017586	32393901	Discovery of a NAPE-PLD inhibitor that modulates emotional behavior in mice. 	Discovery of a NAPE-PLD inhibitor that modulates emotional behavior in mice	chemical biology, drug discovery, endocannabinoids, lipids	N-acylethanolamines (NAEs), which include the endocannabinoid anandamide, represent an important family of signaling lipids in the brain. The lack of chemical probes that modulate NAE biosynthesis in living systems hamper the understanding of the biological role of these lipids. Using a high-throughput screen, chemical proteomics and targeted lipidomics, we report here the discovery and characterization of LEI-401 as a CNS-active N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD) inhibitor. LEI-401 reduced NAE levels in neuroblastoma cells and in the brain of freely moving mice, but not in NAPE-PLD KO cells and mice, respectively. LEI-401 activated the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis and impaired fear extinction, thereby emulating the effect of a cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, which could be reversed by a fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor. Our findings highlight the distinctive role of NAPE-PLD in NAE biosynthesis in the brain and suggest the presence of an endogenous NAE tone controlling emotional behavior.
PXD017925	32395580	Dataset on interactors of the Arabidopsis thaliana Plant Natriuretic Peptide (AtPNP-A) determined by mass spectrometry. 	LC-MS/MS identification of interactors of the plant natriuretic peptide, AtPNP-A	A. thaliana, AtPNP-A, plant natriuretic peptide	Interactors of the plant natriuretic peptide present in Arabidopsis thaliana, termed AtPNP-A, were affinity-based isolated from A. thaliana (Col-0) leaf mesophyll cell protoplasts by incubating the protoplasts with biologically active biotinylated peptide corresponding to amino acid sequence of the active site of AtPNP-A (pAtPNP-A), either in the presence or absence of a cross-linking agent, 3,3'-dithiobis(sulfosuccinimidyl propionate) (DTSSP), or with equimolar amount of biotin with DTSSP (negative control). Upon biotin/streptavidin-based isolation of proteins bound to the pAtPNP-A or biotin, the proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulphate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), digested with trypsin and subjected to identification with liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Label-free quantification of identified proteins allowed identification of binding partners of AtPNP-A, paving the way for pinpointing novel signal transduction pathways AtPNP-A is involved in. The raw and processed LC-MS/MS data reported in this article have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD017925.
PXD017415	32396724	Isobaric Labeling Strategy Utilizing 4-Plex N,N-Dimethyl Leucine (DiLeu) Tags Reveals Proteomic Changes Induced by Chemotherapy in Cerebrospinal Fluid of Children with B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. 	Isobaric labeling strategy utilizing 4-plex N, N-dimethyl leucine (DiLeu) tags reveals proteomic changes induced by chemotherapy-related neurotoxicity in cerebrospinal fluid of children	CSF Proteomics, Isobaric labeling, Leukemia	The use of mass spectrometry for protein identification and quantification in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is at the forefront of research efforts to identify and explore biomarkers for the early diagnosis and prognosis of neurologic disorders. Here we implemented a 4-plex N,N-dimethyl leucine (DiLeu) isobaric labeling strategy in a longitudinal study aiming to investigate protein dynamics in children with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-cell ALL) undergoing chemotherapy. The temporal profile of CSF proteome during chemotherapy treatment at weeks 5, 10-14, and 24-28 highlighted many differentially expressed proteins, such as neural cell adhesion molecule, neuronal growth regulator 1, and secretogranin-3, all of which play important roles in neurodegenerative diseases. A total of 63 proteins were significantly altered across all of the time points investigated. The most over-represented biological processes from gene ontology analysis included platelet degranulation, complement activation, cell adhesion, fibrinolysis, neuron projection, regeneration, and regulation of neuron death. We expect that results from this and future studies will provide a means to monitor neurotoxicity and develop strategies to prevent central nervous system injury in response to chemotherapy in children.
PXD017994	32396726	Plasma-Derived Extracellular Vesicle Phosphoproteomics through Chemical Affinity Purification. 	Plasma-derived EV Phosphoproteomics through Chemical Affinity Purification	EVtrap, exosomes, kidney cancer, phosphoproteomics	The invasive nature and the pain caused to patients inhibit the routine use of tissue biopsy-based procedures for cancer diagnosis and surveillance. The analysis of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from biofluids has recently gained significant traction in the liquid biopsy field. EVs offer an essential "snapshot" of their precursor cells in real time and contain an information-rich collection of nucleic acids, proteins, lipids, and so on. The analysis of protein phosphorylation, as a direct marker of cellular signaling and disease progression could be an important stepping stone to successful liquid biopsy applications. Here we introduce a rapid EV isolation method based on chemical affinity called EVtrap (extracellular vesicle total recovery and purification) for the EV phosphoproteomics analysis of human plasma. By incorporating EVtrap with high-performance mass spectrometry (MS), we were able to identify over 16 000 unique peptides representing 2238 unique EV proteins from just 5 muL of plasma sample, including most known EV markers, with substantially higher recovery levels compared with ultracentrifugation. Most importantly, more than 5500 unique phosphopeptides representing almost 1600 phosphoproteins in EVs were identified using only 1 mL of plasma. Finally, we carried out a quantitative EV phosphoproteomics analysis of plasma samples from patients diagnosed with chronic kidney disease or kidney cancer, identifying dozens of phosphoproteins capable of distinguishing disease states from healthy controls. The study demonstrates the potential feasibility of our robust analytical pipeline for cancer signaling monitoring by tracking plasma EV phosphorylation.
PXD017799	32397227	Urine Proteomic Study in OAB Patients-Preliminary Report. 	Human urine proteome in overactive bladder syndorme	Lower urinary tract symptoms, Urgency urinary incontinence, overactive bladder	Overactive bladder (OAB) is defined by International Urogynecological Association (IUGA)/ International Continence Society (ICS) as urinary urgency, usually accompanied by frequency and nocturia, with or without urgency urinary incontinence, in the absence of urinary tract infection (UTI) or other obvious pathology. The pathophysiology of OAB is not well understood, however a number of different proteins and cytokines including vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) were found to be important in regulating structural integrity of the bladder wall. Proteome analysis may thus provide significant information with regard to OAB and may help in discovering novel diagnostic disease biomarkers. Sixteen Caucasian women aged 32-78 were included in the study. Patients were placed within 2 groups: OAB group (n = 8) and control group (n = 8). Urine samples were collected, immediately preserved in a protease inhibitor mixture, and frozen at -80 C. All samples were then further processed according to the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) manual. Proteins were labeled and analyzed in the mass spectrometer conjugated with liquid chromatograph (data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD017799). There were no statistically significant differences in demographic data between control and OAB groups. VCAM-1 was the only protein that reached statistical significance as a differentiating protein in both of our experiments assessing the proteomic constitution in OAB patients. Studies involving a larger group of patients may provide further information on urinary bladder proteomics.
PXD012196	32397800	An integrative multi-omics approach uncovers the regulatory role of CDK7 and CDK4 in autophagy activation induced by silica nanoparticles. 	An integrative multi-omics approach uncovers the regulatory role of Cdk7 and Cdk4 in autophagy induced by silica nanoparticles	Cdk4, Cdk7, autophagy, phosphoproteomics, protein kinase, silica nanoparticles	Dysfunction of macroautophagy/autophagy has been postulated as a major cellular toxicological response to nanomaterials. It has been reported that excessive autophagy activation, induced by silica nanoparticles (SiNPs), contributes to autophagy dysfunction, whereas little is known how SiNPs trigger autophagy activation. Here, we treated normal rat kidney (NRK) cells using 3 different sizes of SiNPs (16, 29, and 51 nm) and observed that 16-nm SiNPs, with a final concentration of 60 mug/mL, dramatically induce autophagy activation without reducing cell viability. We further conducted a transcriptomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic profiling, and detected 23 autophagy-related (Atg) genes and 35 autophagy regulators regulated on at least one omic layer. To identify key regulators from the multi-omics data, we developed a new algorithm of computational prediction of master autophagy-regulating kinases (cMAK) to detect 21 candidates and revealed the CDK7-CDK4 cascade to be functional. The silence or inhibition of Cdk7 or Cdk4 significantly attenuated autophagic activation but not influenced autophagic flux blockage induced by 16-nm SiNPs. Further computational modeling indicated that the CDK7-CDK4 signaling axis potentially triggers autophagy activation by phosphorylating RB1 (RB transcriptional corepressor 1), activating two critical transcription factors, E2F1 (E2F transcription factor 1) and FOXO3 (forkhead box O3), and enhancing the transcriptional levels of at least 8 Atg genes and autophagy regulators in response to SiNPs. Our studies not only established a powerful method for predicting regulatory kinases from the multi-omics data but also revealed a potential mechanism of SiNP-triggered autophagy activation through modulating the CDK7-CDK4 cascade.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; Atg: autophagy-related; BECN1: beclin 1; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CDK4: cyclin dependent kinase 4; CDK7: cyclin dependent kinase 7; cMAK: computational prediction of master autophagy-regulating kinases; CQ: chloroquine; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; E-ratio: enrichment ratio; E2F1: E2F transcription factor 1; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; FOXO3: forkhead box O3; FPKM: fragments per kilobase of exon per million fragments mapped; GO: gene ontology; H2O2: hydrogen peroxide; iGPS: in vivo GPS; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LC-MS/MS: liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3B/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; NRK: normal rat kidney; p-site: phosphorylation site; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PDI: polydispersity index; PTM: post-translational modification; QKS: quantitative kinase state; RB1: RB transcriptional corepressor 1; RBHs: reciprocal best hits; RNA-Seq: RNA sequencing; ROS: reactive oxygen species; rSiNPs: SiNPs fluorescently labeled with rhodamine B; SEM: scanning electronic microscopy; SiNPs: silica nanoparticles; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; ssKSR: site-specific kinase-substrate relation; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; tfLC3: mRFP-GFP tandem fluorescent-tagged LC3.
PXD013840	32398348	Phosphoproteomics of CD2 signaling reveals AMPK-dependent regulation of lytic granule polarization in cytotoxic T cells. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of CD2 signaling reveals an AMPK-dependent targeted granule secretion in human cytotoxic T cells	CD2, granule secretion, phosphoproteome	Understanding the costimulatory signaling that enhances the activity of cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) could identify potential targets for immunotherapy. Here, we report that CD2 costimulation plays a critical role in target cell killing by freshly isolated human CD8(+) T cells, which represent a challenging but valuable model to gain insight into CTL biology. We found that CD2 stimulation critically enhanced signaling by the T cell receptor in the formation of functional immune synapses by promoting the polarization of lytic granules toward the microtubule-organizing center (MTOC). To gain insight into the underlying mechanism, we explored the CD2 signaling network by phosphoproteomics, which revealed 616 CD2-regulated phosphorylation events in 373 proteins implicated in the regulation of vesicular trafficking, cytoskeletal organization, autophagy, and metabolism. Signaling by the master metabolic regulator AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) was a critical node in the CD2 network, which promoted granule polarization toward the MTOC in CD8(+) T cells. Granule trafficking was driven by active AMPK enriched on adjacent lysosomes, revealing previously uncharacterized signaling cross-talk between vesicular compartments in CD8(+) T cells. Our results thus establish CD2 signaling as key for mediating cytotoxic killing and granule polarization in freshly isolated CD8(+) T cells and strengthen the rationale to choose CD2 and AMPK as therapeutic targets to enhance CTL activity.
PXD016886	32398368	Structural venomics reveals evolution of a complex venom by duplication and diversification of an ancient peptide-encoding gene. 	Structural diversity of toxins contained within the venom of the funnel web spider Hadronyche infensa.	Spider, mascot, proteinpilot, toxin, venom	Spiders are one of the most successful venomous animals, with more than 48,000 described species. Most spider venoms are dominated by cysteine-rich peptides with a diverse range of pharmacological activities. Some spider venoms contain thousands of unique peptides, but little is known about the mechanisms used to generate such complex chemical arsenals. We used an integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and structural biology approach to demonstrate that the lethal Australian funnel-web spider produces 33 superfamilies of venom peptides and proteins. Twenty-six of the 33 superfamilies are disulfide-rich peptides, and we show that 15 of these are knottins that contribute >90% of the venom proteome. NMR analyses revealed that most of these disulfide-rich peptides are structurally related and range in complexity from simple to highly elaborated knottin domains, as well as double-knot toxins, that likely evolved from a single ancestral toxin gene.
PXD018591	32398688	Peroxisomal targeting of a protein phosphatase type 2C via mitochondrial transit. 	Peroxisomal targeting of the protein phosphatase Ptc5 via mitochondrial transit	Peroxisome, Ptc5, protein phosphatase	Correct intracellular distribution of proteins is critical for the function of eukaryotic cells. Certain proteins are targeted to more than one cellular compartment, e.g. to mitochondria and peroxisomes. The protein phosphatase Ptc5 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains an N-terminal mitochondrial presequence followed by a transmembrane domain, and has been detected in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. Here we show mitochondrial transit of Ptc5 to peroxisomes. Translocation of Ptc5 to peroxisomes depended both on the C-terminal peroxisomal targeting signal (PTS1) and N-terminal cleavage by the mitochondrial inner membrane peptidase complex. Indirect targeting of Ptc5 to peroxisomes prevented deleterious effects of its phosphatase activity in the cytosol. Sorting of Ptc5 involves simultaneous interaction with import machineries of both organelles. We identify additional mitochondrial proteins with PTS1, which localize in both organelles and can increase their physical association. Thus, a tug-of-war-like mechanism can influence the interaction and communication of two cellular compartments.
PXD013445	32398747	Naked mole-rat very-high-molecular-mass hyaluronan exhibits superior cytoprotective properties. 	The effect of very-high-molecular-mass hyaluronan (vHMM-HA) on CD44 protein-protein interactions.	Naked mole rat / hyaluronan / CD44	Naked mole-rat (NMR), the longest-living rodent, produces very-high-molecular-mass hyaluronan (vHMM-HA), compared to other mammalian species. However, it is unclear if exceptional polymer length of vHMM-HA is important for longevity. Here, we show that vHMM-HA (>6.1 MDa) has superior cytoprotective properties compared to the shorter HMM-HA. It protects not only NMR cells, but also mouse and human cells from stress-induced cell-cycle arrest and cell death in a polymer length-dependent manner. The cytoprotective effect is dependent on the major HA-receptor, CD44. We find that vHMM-HA suppresses CD44 protein-protein interactions, whereas HMM-HA promotes them. As a result, vHMM-HA and HMM-HA induce opposing effects on the expression of CD44-dependent genes, which are associated with the p53 pathway. Concomitantly, vHMM-HA partially attenuates p53 and protects cells from stress in a p53-dependent manner. Our results implicate vHMM-HA in anti-aging mechanisms and suggest the potential applications of vHMM-HA for enhancing cellular stress resistance.
PXD012317	32398793	Platform independent protein-based cell-of-origin subtyping of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. 	Platform independent protein-based cell-of-origin subtyping of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue	DLBCL, SWATH-MS, cell of origin, lymphoma	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is commonly classified by gene expression profiling according to its cell of origin (COO) into activated B-cell (ABC)-like and germinal center B-cell (GCB)-like subgroups. Here we report the application of label-free nano-liquid chromatography - Sequential Window Acquisition of all THeoretical fragment-ion spectra - mass spectrometry (nanoLC-SWATH-MS) to the COO classification of DLBCL in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue. To generate a protein signature capable of predicting Affymetrix-based GCB scores, the summed log2-transformed fragment ion intensities of 780 proteins quantified in a training set of 42 DLBCL cases were used as independent variables in a penalized zero-sum elastic net regression model with variable selection. The eight-protein signature obtained showed an excellent correlation (r = 0.873) between predicted and true GCB scores and yielded only 9 (21.4%) minor discrepancies between the three classifications: ABC, GCB, and unclassified. The robustness of the model was validated successfully in two independent cohorts of 42 and 31 DLBCL cases, the latter cohort comprising only patients aged >75 years, with Pearson correlation coefficients of 0.846 and 0.815, respectively, between predicted and NanoString nCounter based GCB scores. We further show that the 8-protein signature is directly transferable to both a triple quadrupole and a Q Exactive quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometer, thus obviating the need for proprietary instrumentation and reagents. This method may therefore be used for robust and competitive classification of DLBCLs on the protein level.
PXD012425	32398829	SLX4 interacts with RTEL1 to prevent transcription-mediated DNA replication perturbations. 	Searching for new members of the SLX4 complex and for SLX4-complex members that are SUMOylated in vitro	SLX4 scaffold, interactome, protein SUMOylation	The SLX4 tumor suppressor is a scaffold that plays a pivotal role in several aspects of genome protection, including homologous recombination, interstrand DNA crosslink repair and the maintenance of common fragile sites and telomeres. Here, we unravel an unexpected direct interaction between SLX4 and the DNA helicase RTEL1, which, until now, were viewed as having independent and antagonistic functions. We identify cancer and Hoyeraal-Hreidarsson syndrome-associated mutations in SLX4 and RTEL1, respectively, that abolish SLX4-RTEL1 complex formation. We show that both proteins are recruited to nascent DNA, tightly co-localize with active RNA pol II, and that SLX4, in complex with RTEL1, promotes FANCD2/RNA pol II co-localization. Importantly, disrupting the SLX4-RTEL1 interaction leads to DNA replication defects in unstressed cells, which are rescued by inhibiting transcription. Our data demonstrate that SLX4 and RTEL1 interact to prevent replication-transcription conflicts and provide evidence that this is independent of the nuclease scaffold function of SLX4.
PXD015858	32400114	Protease-resistant streptavidin for interaction proteomics. 	Protease-resistant streptavidin for interaction proteomics	BioID, ChIP, ChIP-SICAP, Streptavidin, biotinylation, ceramide-binding proteins, interactors, lipid, membrane proteins	Streptavidin-mediated enrichment is a powerful strategy to identify biotinylated biomolecules and their interaction partners; however, intense streptavidin-derived peptides impede protein identification by mass spectrometry. Here, we present an approach to chemically modify streptavidin, thus rendering it resistant to proteolysis by trypsin and LysC. This modification results in over 100-fold reduction of streptavidin contamination and in better coverage of proteins interacting with various biotinylated bait molecules (DNA, protein, and lipid) in an overall simplified workflow.
PXD016245	32403088	Landscapes of Protein Posttranslational Modifications of African Trypanosoma Parasites. 	Proteomic analysis reveals core monocyte-derived cell differentiation proteome and highlights cellular identity-specific proteins	M1 macrophages, M2 macrophages, dendritic cells, differentiation, monocyte-derived cells, osteoclasts	Proteins of all living cells undergo a myriad of post-translational modifications (PTMs) that are critical to multifarious life processes. In this study, we describe the first comprehensive multiple PTM-omics atlas in parallel with quantitative proteome analyses of two representative species of African trypanosomes, Trypanosoma brucei and Trypanosoma evansi. Ten PTM types with approximately 40,000 modified sites and 150 histone marks with a fine map on each protein of the two African trypanosomes were accomplished. The two biologically different trypanosomal species displayed distinct PTM-omic features, regulation pathways, and networks. Modifications in the proteins involved in the redox system were mainly upregulated in T. brucei, whereas proteins associated with motility were predominantly modified in T. evansi. The establishment of a database of multiple PTMs in the two parasites provides us with a deep insight into the biological mechanisms that underpin life processes in trypanosomes with different life cycles.
PXD015753	32404185	Protein phosphorylation networks in spargana of Spirometra erinaceieuropaei revealed by phosphoproteomic analysis. 	Protein phosphorylation networks in spargana of Spirometra erinaceieuropaei revealed by phosphoproteomic analysis	IMAC, Phosphoproteome, Spargana, Spirometra erinaceieuropaei	BACKGROUND: Sparganosis caused by Spirometra erinaceieuropaei spargana is a zoonotic parasitic infection that has been reported in many countries, including China, Japan, Thailand and Korea, as well as European countries and the USA. The biological and clinical significance of the parasite have previously been reported. Although the genomic and transcriptomic analysis of S. erinaceieuropaei provided insightful views about the development and pathogenesis of this species, little knowledge has been acquired in terms of post-translational regulation that is essential for parasite growth, development and reproduction. Here, we performed site-specific phosphoproteomic profiling, with an aim to obtain primary information about the global phosphorylation status of spargana. RESULTS: A total of 3228 phosphopeptides and 3461 phosphorylation sites were identified in 1758 spargana proteins. The annotated phosphoproteins were involved in a variety of biological pathways, including cellular (28%), metabolic (20%) and single-organism (17%) processes. The functional enrichment of phosphopeptides by Gene Ontology analysis indicated that most spargana phosphoproteins were related to the cytoskeleton cellular compartment, signaling molecular function, and a variety of biological processes, including a molecular function regulator, guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity, protein kinase activities, and calcium ion binding. The highly enriched pathways of phosphorylation proteins include the phosphatidylinositol signaling system, phagosome, endocytosis, inositol phosphate metabolism, terpenoid backbone biosynthesis, and peroxisome. Domain analysis identified an EF-hand domain and pleckstrin homology domain among the key domains. CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this study performed the first global phosphoproteomic analysis of S. erinaceieuropaei. The dataset reported herein provides a valuable resource for future studies on the signaling pathways of this important zoonotic parasite.
PXD017443	32404488	The CEP5 Peptide Promotes Abiotic Stress Tolerance, As Revealed by Quantitative Proteomics, and Attenuates the AUX/IAA Equilibrium in Arabidopsis. 	Phosphoproteomics of Arabidopsis CEP5 overexprssion line	phosphoproteomics, whole seedling	Peptides derived from non-functional precursors play important roles in various developmental processes, but also in (a)biotic stress signaling. Our (phospho)proteome-wide analyses of C-TERMINALLY ENCODED PEPTIDE 5 (CEP5)-mediated changes revealed an impact on abiotic stress-related processes. Drought has a dramatic impact on plant growth, development and reproduction, and the plant hormone auxin plays a role in drought responses. Our genetic, physiological, biochemical, and pharmacological results demonstrated that CEP5-mediated signaling is relevant for osmotic and drought stress tolerance in Arabidopsis, and that CEP5 specifically counteracts auxin effects. Specifically, we found that CEP5 signaling stabilizes AUX/IAA transcriptional repressors, suggesting the existence of a novel peptide-dependent control mechanism that tunes auxin signaling. These observations align with the recently described role of AUX/IAAs in stress tolerance and provide a novel role for CEP5 in osmotic and drought stress tolerance.
PXD018131	32404936	YAP1/TAZ drives ependymoma-like tumour formation in mice. 	YAP/TAZ drives ependymoma-like tumour formation in mice	TMT10plex, brain, ependymoma, mus musculus, nlsYAP5SA	YAP1 gene fusions have been observed in a subset of paediatric ependymomas. Here we show that, ectopic expression of active nuclear YAP1 (nlsYAP5SA) in ventricular zone neural progenitor cells using conditionally-induced NEX/NeuroD6-Cre is sufficient to drive brain tumour formation in mice. Neuronal differentiation is inhibited in the hippocampus. Deletion of YAP1's negative regulators LATS1 and LATS2 kinases in NEX-Cre lineage in double conditional knockout mice also generates similar tumours, which are rescued by deletion of YAP1 and its paralog TAZ. YAP1/TAZ-induced mouse tumours display molecular and ultrastructural characteristics of human ependymoma. RNA sequencing and quantitative proteomics of mouse tumours demonstrate similarities to YAP1-fusion induced supratentorial ependymoma. Finally, we find that transcriptional cofactor HOPX is upregulated in mouse models and in human YAP1-fusion induced ependymoma, supporting their similarity. Our results show that uncontrolled YAP1/TAZ activity in neuronal precursor cells leads to ependymoma-like tumours in mice.
PXD015491	32406909	G3BP1-linked mRNA partitioning supports selective protein synthesis in response to oxidative stress. 	G3BP1-linked mRNA partitioning supports selective protein synthesis in response to oxidative stress	APEX, G3BP1, Prostate cancer, Stress granules	Cells limit energy-consuming mRNA translation during stress to maintain metabolic homeostasis. Sequestration of mRNAs by RNA binding proteins (RBPs) into RNA granules reduces their translation, but it remains unclear whether RBPs also function in partitioning of specific transcripts to polysomes (PSs) to guide selective translation and stress adaptation in cancer. To study transcript partitioning under cell stress, we catalogued mRNAs enriched in prostate carcinoma PC-3 cell PSs, as defined by polysome fractionation and RNA sequencing (RNAseq), and compared them to mRNAs complexed with the known SG-nucleator protein, G3BP1, as defined by spatially-restricted enzymatic tagging and RNAseq. By comparing these compartments before and after short-term arsenite-induced oxidative stress, we identified three major categories of transcripts, namely those that were G3BP1-associated and PS-depleted, G3BP1-dissociated and PS-enriched, and G3BP1-associated but also PS-enriched. Oxidative stress profoundly altered the partitioning of transcripts between these compartments. Under arsenite stress, G3BP1-associated and PS-depleted transcripts correlated with reduced expression of encoded mitochondrial proteins, PS-enriched transcripts that disassociated from G3BP1 encoded cell cycle and cytoprotective proteins whose expression increased, while transcripts that were both G3BP1-associated and PS-enriched encoded proteins involved in diverse stress response pathways. Therefore, G3BP1 guides transcript partitioning to reprogram mRNA translation and support stress adaptation.
PXD017468	32407674	High-Resolution mRNA and Secretome Atlas of Human Enteroendocrine Cells. 	High Resolution mRNA and Secretome Atlas of Human Enteroendocrine Cells	EEC, Organoids, Secretome, peptide hormones	Enteroendocrine cells (EECs) sense intestinal content and release hormones to regulate gastrointestinal activity, systemic metabolism, and food intake. Little is known about the molecular make-up of human EEC subtypes and the regulated secretion of individual hormones. Here, we describe an organoid-based platform for functional studies of human EECs. EEC formation is induced in vitro by transient expression of NEUROG3. A set of gut organoids was engineered in which the major hormones are fluorescently tagged. A single-cell mRNA atlas was generated for the different EEC subtypes, and their secreted products were recorded by mass-spectrometry. We note key differences to murine EECs, including hormones, sensory receptors, and transcription factors. Notably, several hormone-like molecules were identified. Inter-EEC communication is exemplified by secretin-induced GLP-1 secretion. Indeed, individual EEC subtypes carry receptors for various EEC hormones. This study provides a rich resource to study human EEC development and function.
PXD017710	32408336	Proteomics of SARS-CoV-2-infected host cells reveals therapy targets. 	Proteome and Translatome of SARS-CoV-2 infected cells	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, translatome	A new coronavirus was recently discovered and named severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Infection with SARS-CoV-2 in humans causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and has been rapidly spreading around the globe(1,2). SARS-CoV-2 shows some similarities to other coronaviruses; however, treatment options and an understanding of how SARS-CoV-2 infects cells are lacking. Here we identify the host cell pathways that are modulated by SARS-CoV-2 and show that inhibition of these pathways prevents viral replication in human cells. We established a human cell-culture model for infection with a clinical isolate of SARS-CoV-2. Using this cell-culture system, we determined the infection profile of SARS-CoV-2 by translatome(3) and proteome proteomics at different times after infection. These analyses revealed that SARS-CoV-2 reshapes central cellular pathways such as translation, splicing, carbon metabolism, protein homeostasis (proteostasis) and nucleic acid metabolism. Small-molecule inhibitors that target these pathways prevented viral replication in cells. Our results reveal the cellular infection profile of SARS-CoV-2 and have enabled the identification of drugs that inhibit viral replication. We anticipate that our results will guide efforts to understand the molecular mechanisms that underlie the modulation of host cells after infection with SARS-CoV-2. Furthermore, our findings provide insights for the development of therapies for the treatment of COVID-19.
PXD017757	32409602	Activin-A limits Th17 pathogenicity and autoimmune neuroinflammation via CD39 and CD73 ectonucleotidases and Hif1-alpha-dependent pathways. 	activin A treated Th17 cells from mouse	Th17 cells, activin A	In multiple sclerosis (MS), Th17 cells are critical drivers of autoimmune central nervous system (CNS) inflammation and demyelination. Th17 cells exhibit functional heterogeneity fostering both pathogenic and nonpathogenic, tissue-protective functions. Still, the factors that control Th17 pathogenicity remain incompletely defined. Here, using experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an established mouse MS model, we report that therapeutic administration of activin-A ameliorates disease severity and alleviates CNS immunopathology and demyelination, associated with decreased activation of Th17 cells. In fact, activin-A signaling through activin-like kinase-4 receptor represses pathogenic transcriptional programs in Th17-polarized cells, while it enhances antiinflammatory gene modules. Whole-genome profiling and in vivo functional studies revealed that activation of the ATP-depleting CD39 and CD73 ectonucleotidases is essential for activin-A-induced suppression of the pathogenic signature and the encephalitogenic functions of Th17 cells. Mechanistically, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, along with STAT3 and c-Maf, are recruited to promoter elements on Entpd1 and Nt5e (encoding CD39 and CD73, respectively) and other antiinflammatory genes, and control their expression in Th17 cells in response to activin-A. Notably, we show that activin-A negatively regulates the metabolic sensor, hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha, and key inflammatory proteins linked to pathogenic Th17 cell states. Of translational relevance, we demonstrate that activin-A is induced in the CNS of individuals with MS and restrains human Th17 cell responses. These findings uncover activin-A as a critical controller of Th17 cell pathogenicity that can be targeted for the suppression of autoimmune CNS inflammation.
PXD016777	32409632	Differential responses to kinase inhibition in FGFR2-addicted triple negative breast cancer cells: a quantitative phosphoproteomics study. 	Differential responses to kinase inhibition in FGFR2-addicted triple negative breast cancer cells: a quantitative phosphoproteomics study	FGF, MAPK, SILAC, SU5402, mTOR, phosphorylation	Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF) dependent signalling is frequently activated in cancer by a variety of different mechanisms. However, the downstream signal transduction pathways involved are poorly characterised. Here a quantitative differential phosphoproteomics approach, SILAC, is applied to identify FGF-regulated phosphorylation events in two triple- negative breast tumour cell lines, MFM223 and SUM52, that exhibit amplified expression of FGF receptor 2 (FGFR2) and are dependent on continued FGFR2 signalling for cell viability. Comparative Gene Ontology proteome analysis revealed that SUM52 cells were enriched in proteins associated with cell metabolism and MFM223 cells enriched in proteins associated with cell adhesion and migration. FGFR2 inhibition by SU5402 impacts a significant fraction of the observed phosphoproteome of these cells. This study expands the known landscape of FGF signalling and identifies many new targets for functional investigation. FGF signalling pathways are found to be flexible in architecture as both shared, and divergent, responses to inhibition of FGFR2 kinase activity in the canonical RAF/MAPK/ERK/RSK and PI3K/AKT/PDK/mTOR/S6K pathways are identified. Inhibition of phosphorylation-dependent negative-feedback pathways is observed, defining mechanisms of intrinsic resistance to FGFR2 inhibition. These findings have implications for the therapeutic application of FGFR inhibitors as they identify both common and divergent responses in cells harbouring the same genetic lesion and pathways of drug resistance.
PXD018330	32410369	The p38-interacting protein p38IP suppresses TCR and LPS signaling by targeting TAK1. 	A mass spectrometry analysis of the TAK1 protein complex in Jurkat T cells.	Jurkat T cells, TAK1	Negative regulation of immunoreceptor signaling is required for preventing hyperimmune activation and maintaining immune homeostasis. The roles of p38IP in immunoreceptor signaling remain unclear. Here, we show that p38IP suppresses T-cell receptor (TCR)/LPS-activated NF-kappaB and p38 by targeting TAK1 kinase and that p38IP protein levels are downregulated in human PBMCs from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, inversely correlating with the enhanced activity of NF-kappaB and p38. Mechanistically, p38IP interacts with TAK1 to disassemble the TAK1-TAB (TAK1-binding protein) complex. p38IP overexpression decreases TCR-induced binding of K63-linked polyubiquitin (polyUb) chains to TAK1 but increases that to TAB2, and p38IP knockdown shows the opposite effects, indicating unanchored K63-linked polyUb chain transfer from TAB2 to TAK1. p38IP dynamically interacts with TAK1 upon stimulation, because of the polyUb chain transfer and the higher binding affinity of TAK1 and p38IP for polyUb-bound TAB2 and TAK1, respectively. Moreover, p38IP scaffolds the deubiquitinase USP4 to deubiquitinate TAK1 once TAK1 is activated. These findings reveal a novel role and the mechanisms of p38IP in controlling TCR/LPS signaling and suggest that p38IP might participate in RA pathogenesis.
PXD011379	32411020	Comparative Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis of Heat Acclimation in Predatory Mite Neoseiulus barkeri. 	Neoseiulus barkeri LC-MSMS    .	Neoseiulus barkeri, heat acclimation	In our previous study, we reported a high temperature adapted strain (HTAS) of the predatory mite Neoseiulus barkeri was artificially selected via a long-term heat acclimation (35degreesC) and frequent heat hardenings. To understand the molecular basis of heat acclimation, 'omics' analyses were performed to compare the differences between HTAS female adults to conventional strain (CS) at transcriptional and translational levels. We obtained a total of 5,374 differentially expressed genes and 500 differentially expressed proteins. Among them, 119 transcripts had concurrent transcription and translation profiles. It's conserved that some processes, such as high expression of heat shock protein (HSP) genes, involved in heat tolerance of transcriptome analyses, while many protective enzymes including glutathione S-transferase, superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and cytochrome P450 displayed down-regulated expression. KEGG analysis mapped 4,979 and 348 differentially expressed genes and proteins, to 299 and 253 pathways, respectively. The mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) signaling pathway may provide new insights for the investigation of the molecular mechanisms of heat tolerance. Correlation enriched pathways indicated that there were four pathways associated with heat acclimation involving in energy metabolism and immunity. In addition, the expression patterns of ten randomly selected genes including HSP were consistent with the transcriptome results obtained through quantitative real-time PCR. Comparisons between transcriptome and proteome results indicated the upregulation of HSPs and genes participated in ATP production, immunity and energy metabolism process. A majority of antioxidant-related genes and detoxication-related genes were down-regulated suggesting a fitness cost of heat acclimation. Our results demonstrated that heat tolerance during a long-time acclimation of N. barkeri is a fairly complicated process of physiological regulations. These findings also contribute to a better understanding of the mechanisms of thermal responses of phytoseiid mites which could provide useful information for biological control through natural enemies.
PXD015679	32411104	Proteolysis of Gingival Keratinocyte Cell Surface Proteins by Gingipains Secreted From Porphyromonas gingivalis - Proteomic Insights Into Mechanisms Behind Tissue Damage in the Diseased Gingiva. 	membrane substrates of gingipains	anoikis, gingipain, protease, proteolysis, shedding	Porphyromonas gingivalis, the main etiologic agent of periodontitis, secretes cysteine proteases named gingipains. HRgpA and RgpB gingipains have Arg-specificity, while Kgp gingipain is Lys-specific. Together they can cleave an array of proteins and importantly contribute to the development of periodontitis. In this study we focused on gingipain-exerted proteolysis at the cell surface of human gingival epithelial cells [telomerase immortalized gingival keratinocytes (TIGK)] in order to better understand the molecular mechanisms behind tissue destruction in periodontitis. Using mass spectrometry, we investigated the whole sheddome/degradome of TIGK cell surface proteins by P. gingivalis strains differing in gingipain expression and by purified gingipains, and performed the first global proteomic analysis of gignpain proteolysis at the membrane. Incubation of TIGK cells with P. gingivalis resulted in massive degradation of proteins already at low multiplicity of infection, whereas incubating cells with purified gingipains resulted in more discrete patterns, indicative of a combination of complete degradation and shedding of membrane proteins. Most of the identified gingipain substrates were molecules involved in adhesion, suggesting that gingipains may cause tissue damage through cleavage of cell contacts, resulting in cell detachment and rounding, and consequently leading to anoikis. However, HRgpA and RgpB gingipains differ in their mechanism of action. While RgpB rapidly degraded the proteins, HRgpA exhibited a much slower proteolysis indicative of ectodomain shedding, as demonstrated for the transferrin receptor protein 1 (TFRC). These results reveal a molecular underpinning to P. gingivalis-induced tissue destruction and enhance our knowledge of the role of P. gingivalis proteases in the pathobiology of periodontitis. Proteomics data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015679.
PXD015809	32411114	Global Proteomic Analysis of Lysine Malonylation in Toxoplasma gondii. 	First Global Proteomic Analysis of Lysine Malonylation in Toxoplasma gondii	Post-translational, Toxoplasma gondii, lysine malonylation, malonylome, modifications	Lysine malonylation (Kmal) is a new post-translational modification (PTM), which has been reported in several prokaryotic and eukaryotic species. Although Kmal can regulate many and diverse biological processes in various organisms, knowledge about this important PTM in the apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii is limited. In this study, we performed the first global profiling of malonylated proteins in T. gondii tachyzoites using affinity enrichment and Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Three experiments performed in tandem revealed 294, 345, 352 Kmal sites on 203, 236, 230 malonylated proteins, respectively. Computational analysis showed the identified malonylated proteins to be localized in various subcellular compartments and involved in many cellular functions, particularly mitochondrial function. Additionally, one conserved Kmal motif with a strong bias for cysteine was detected. Taken together, these findings provide the first report of Kmal profile in T. gondii and should be an important resource for studying the physiological roles of Kmal in this parasite.
PXD011436	32411116	Nitrogen Substrate Utilization in Three Rhizosphere Bacterial Strains Investigated Using Proteomics. 	Proteomics of nitrogen metabolism in rhizosphere bacteria	Amino acids, Bacteria, Bacterial root microbiota, Metabolism, Nitrogen, Rhizosphere microbiome	Nitrogen metabolism in the rhizosphere microbiome plays an important role in mediating plant nutrition, particularly under low inputs of mineral fertilizers. However, there is relatively little mechanistic information about which genes and metabolic pathways are induced by rhizosphere bacterial strains to utilize diverse nitrogen substrates. Here we investigate nitrogen substrate utilization in three taxonomically diverse bacterial strains previously isolated from Arabidopsis roots. The three strains represent taxa that are consistently detected as core members of the plant microbiome: Pseudomonas, Streptomyces, and Rhizobium. We use phenotype microarrays to determine the nitrogen substrate preferences of these strains, and compare the experimental results vs. computational simulations of genome-scale metabolic network models obtained with EnsembleFBA. Results show that all three strains exhibit generalistic nitrogen substrate preferences, with substrate utilization being well predicted by EnsembleFBA. Using label-free quantitative proteomics, we document hundreds of proteins in each strain that exhibit differential abundance values following cultivation on five different nitrogen sources: ammonium, glutamate, lysine, serine, and urea. The proteomic response to these nitrogen sources was strongly strain-dependent, with lysine nutrition eliciting widespread protein-level changes in Pseudomonas sp. Root9, whereas Rhizobium sp. Root491 showed relatively stable proteome composition across different nitrogen sources. Our results give new protein-level information about the specific transporters and enzymes induced by diverse rhizosphere bacterial strains to utilize organic nitrogen substrates.
PXD016217	32411667	O-Acetylated Chemical Reporters of Glycosylation Can Display Metabolism-Dependent Background Labeling of Proteins but Are Generally Reliable Tools for the Identification of Glycoproteins. 	O-Acetylated chemical reporters of glycosylation can display metabolism-dependent background labeling of proteins but are generally reliable tools for the identification of glycoproteins	Ac42AzMan, Ac44AzGal, IsoTag, O-GlcNAc modifications	Monosaccharide analogs bearing bioorthogonal functionalities, or metabolic chemical reporters (MCRs) of glycosylation, have been used for approximately two decades for the visualization and identification of different glycoproteins. More recently, proteomics analyses have shown that per-O-acetylated MCRs can directly and chemically react with cysteine residues in lysates and potentially cells, drawing into question the physiological relevance of the labeling. Here, we report robust metabolism-dependent labeling by Ac42AzMan but not the structurally similar Ac44AzGal. However, the levels of background chemical-labeling of cell lysates by both reporters are low and identical. We then characterized Ac42AzMan labeling and found that the vast majority of the labeling occurs on intracellular proteins but that this MCR is not converted to previously characterized reporters of intracellular O-GlcNAc modification. Additionally, we used isotope targeted glycoproteomics (IsoTaG) proteomics to show that essentially all of the Ac42AzMan labeling is on cysteine residues. Given the implications this result has for the identification of intracellular O-GlcNAc modifications using MCRs, we then performed a meta-analysis of the potential O-GlcNAcylated proteins identified by different techniques. We found that many of the proteins identified by MCRs have also been found by other methods. Finally, we randomly selected four proteins that had only been identified as O-GlcNAcylated by MCRs and showed that half of them were indeed modified. Together, these data indicate that the selective metabolism of certain MCRs is responsible for S-glycosylation of proteins in the cytosol and nucleus. However, these results also show that MCRs are still good tools for unbiased identification of glycosylated proteins, as long as complementary methods are employed for confirmation.
PXD018362	32411709	Organoid-Transplant Model Systems to Study the Effects of Obesity on the Pancreatic Carcinogenesis in vivo. 	Organoid-trasplant model systems to study in vivo the effects of obesity on the pancreatic carcinogenesis	Adipokines, Carcinogenesis, Obesity, Organoid models, Pancreatic Cancer	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related mortality among adults in developed countries. The discovery of the most common genetic alterations as well as the development of organoid models of pancreatic cancer have provided insight into the fundamental pathways driving tumor progression from a normal cell to non-invasive precursor lesion and finally to widely metastatic disease, offering new opportunities for identifying the key driver of cancer evolution. Obesity is one of the most serious public health challenges of the 21st century. Several epidemiological studies have shown the positive association between obesity and cancer-related morbidity/mortality, as well as poorer prognosis and treatment outcome. Despite strong evidence indicates a link between obesity and cancer incidence, the molecular basis of the initiating events remains largely elusive. This is mainly due to the lack of an accurate and reliable model of pancreatic carcinogenesis that mimics human obesity-associated PDAC, making data interpretation difficult and often confusing. Here we propose a feasible and manageable organoid-based preclinical tool to study the effects of obesity on pancreatic carcinogenesis. Therefore, we tracked the effects of obesity on the natural evolution of PDAC in a genetically defined transplantable model of the syngeneic murine pancreatic preneoplastic lesion (mP) and tumor (mT) derived-organoids that recapitulates the progression of human disease from early preinvasive lesions to metastatic disease. Our results suggest that organoid-derived transplant in obese mice represents a suitable system to study early steps of pancreatic carcinogenesis and supports the hypothesis that inflammation induced by obesity stimulates tumor progression and metastatization during pancreatic carcinogenesis.
PXD017584	32412763	Protocol for High-Yield Production of Photo-Leucine-Labeled Proteins in Escherichia coli. 	Protocol for high-yield production of photo-leucine-labeled proteins in Escherichia coli	Molecular chaperones, Photo-leucine, UV cross-linking, high-cell density culture	UV-cross-linking mass spectrometry is an emerging technique to obtain structural information of biomacromolecules and their complexes in vivo and in vitro. In particular, certain photo-reactive amino acids (pA) such as photo-leucine (pLeu) and photo-methionine can provide unique short-distance information on the structural core regions of proteins. Here, we present a protocol for high-yield incorporation of pLeu in proteins recombinantly expressed in Escherichia coli. The protein of interest is expressed at high cell densities, which reduces the required amount of the pA by a factor of 10, as compared to the standard protocols, while maintaining high incorporation rates. For the two chaperones, trigger factor and SecB, up to 3 mg of pLeu-labeled protein were thus obtained from 100 mL of cell culture, with label incorporation rates of up to 34%. For trigger factor, UV-induced cross-linking leads to the identification of 12 cross-links that are in agreement with the published three-dimensional structures. The accessibility of milligram amounts of pLeu-labeled proteins at low costs will be highly useful to address structural biology questions.
PXD018502	32412768	Glycopeptide Biomarkers in Serum Haptoglobin for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Detection in Patients with Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis. 	Glycopeptide Biomarkers for HCC Detection in Patients with NASH	LC-EThcD-MS/MS, glycopeptide, serum	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is rising in prevalence in the United States and is a growing cause of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Site-specific glycan heterogeneity on glycoproteins has been shown as a potential diagnostic biomarker for HCC. Herein, we have performed a comprehensive screening of site-specific N-glycopeptides in serum haptoglobin (Hp), a reporter molecule for aberrant glycosylation in HCC, to characterize glycopeptide markers for NASH-related HCCs. In total, 70 NASH patients (22 early HCC, 15 advanced HCC, and 33 cirrhosis cases) were analyzed, with Hp purified from 20 muL of serum in each patient, and 140 sets of mass spectrometry (MS) data were collected using liquid chromatography coupled with electron-transfer high-energy collisional dissociation tandem MS (LC-EThcD-MS/MS) for quantitative analysis on a novel software platform, Byos. Differential quantitation analysis revealed that five N-glycopeptides at sites N184 and N241 were significantly elevated during the progression from NASH cirrhosis to HCC (p < 0.05). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis demonstrated that the N-glycopeptides at sites N184 and N241 bearing a monofucosylated triantennary glycan A3G3F1S3 had the best diagnostic performance in detection of early NASH HCC, area under the curve (AUC) = 0.733 and 0.775, respectively, whereas alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) had an AUC of 0.692. When combined with AFP, the two panels improved the sensitivity for early NASH HCC from 59% (AFP alone) to 73% while maintaining a specificity of 70%, based on the optimal cutoff. Two-dimensional (2-D) scatter plots of the AFP value and N-glycopeptides showed that these N-glycopeptide markers detected 58% of AFP-negative HCC patients as distinct from cirrhosis. These site-specific N-glycopeptides could serve as potential markers for early detection of HCC in patients with NASH-related cirrhosis.
PXD012940	32414116	Comprehensive Comparison of Clinically Relevant Grain Proteins in Modern and Traditional Bread Wheat Cultivars. 	Comparative proteomics of clinically relevant proteins in modern and traditional bread wheat cultivars	Triticum aestivum, cereal allergens, food quality, grain, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis	Bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is one of the most valuable cereal crops for human consumption. Its grain storage proteins define bread quality, though they may cause food intolerances or allergies in susceptible individuals. Herein, we discovered a diversity of grain proteins in three Ukrainian wheat cultivars: Sotnytsia, Panna (both modern selection), and Ukrainka (landrace). Firstly, proteins were isolated with a detergent-containing buffer that allowed extraction of various groups of storage proteins (glutenins, gliadins, globulins, and albumins); secondly, the proteome was profiled by the two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Using multi-enzymatic digestion, we identified 49 differentially accumulated proteins. Parallel ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography separation followed by direct mass spectrometry quantification complemented the results. Principal component analysis confirmed that differences among genotypes were a major source of variation. Non-gluten fraction better discriminated bread wheat cultivars. Various accumulation of clinically relevant plant proteins highlighted one of the modern genotypes as a promising donor for the breeding of hypoallergenic cereals.
PXD017924	32414842	Discovery and mechanistic studies of cytotoxic cyclotides from the medicinal herb Hybanthus enneaspermus. 	Discovery and mechanistic studies of cytotoxic cyclotides from the medicinal herb Hybanthus enneaspermus (Linn) F. Muell	anticancer property, cancer cell cytotoxicity, cyclotide, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), peptide chemical synthesis, peptide-membrane interaction, surface plasmon resonance (SPR)	Cyclotides are plant-derived peptides characterized by an ~30-amino acid-long cyclic backbone and a cystine knot motif. Cyclotides have diverse bioactivities, and their cytotoxicity has attracted significant attention for its potential anticancer applications. Hybanthus enneaspermus (Linn) F. Muell is a medicinal herb widely used in India as a libido enhancer, and a previous study has reported that it may contain cyclotides. In the current study, we isolated 11 novel cyclotides and 1 known cyclotide (cycloviolacin O2) from H. enneaspermus and used tandem MS to determine their amino acid sequences. We found that among these cyclotides, hyen C comprises a unique sequence in loops 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 compared with known cyclotides. The most abundant cyclotide in this plant, hyen D, had anticancer activity comparable to that of cycloviolacin O2, one of the most cytotoxic known cyclotides. We also provide mechanistic insights into how these novel cyclotides interact with and permeabilize cell membranes. Results from surface plasmon resonance experiments revealed that hyen D, E, L, and M and cycloviolacin O2 preferentially interact with model lipid membranes that contain phospholipids with phosphatidyl-ethanolamine headgroups. The results of a lactate dehydrogenase assay indicated that exposure to these cyclotides compromises cell membrane integrity. Using live-cell imaging, we show that hyen D induces rapid membrane blebbing and cell necrosis. Cyclotide-membrane interactions correlated with the observed cytotoxicity, suggesting that membrane permeabilization and disintegration underpin cyclotide cytotoxicity. These findings broaden our knowledge on the indigenous Indian herb H. enneaspermus and have uncovered cyclotides with potential anticancer activity.
PXD018373	32415063	Conserved protein Pir2(ARS2) mediates gene repression through cryptic introns in lncRNAs. 	Conserved protein Pir2ARS2 mediates gene repression through cryptic introns in lncRNAs	ARS2, RIME, lncRNA	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are components of epigenetic control mechanisms that ensure appropriate and timely gene expression. The functions of lncRNAs are often mediated through associated gene regulatory activities, but how lncRNAs are distinguished from other RNAs and recruit effector complexes is unclear. Here, we utilize the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe to investigate how lncRNAs engage silencing activities to regulate gene expression in cis. We find that invasion of lncRNA transcription into the downstream gene body incorporates a cryptic intron required for repression of that gene. Our analyses show that lncRNAs containing cryptic introns are targeted by the conserved Pir2(ARS2) protein in association with splicing factors, which recruit RNA processing and chromatin-modifying activities involved in gene silencing. Pir2 and splicing machinery are broadly required for gene repression. Our finding that human ARS2 also interacts with splicing factors suggests a conserved mechanism mediates gene repression through cryptic introns within lncRNAs.
PXD018377	32415096	mRNA display with library of even-distribution reveals cellular interactors of influenza virus NS1. 	mRNA display with library of even-distribution reveals cellular interactors of influenza virus NS1	Influenza NS1 PPI	A comprehensive examination of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is fundamental for the understanding of cellular machineries. However, limitations in current methodologies often prevent the detection of PPIs with low abundance proteins. To overcome this challenge, we develop a mRNA display with library of even-distribution (md-LED) method that facilitates the detection of low abundance binders with high specificity and sensitivity. As a proof-of-principle, we apply md-LED to IAV NS1 protein. Complementary to AP-MS, md-LED enables us to validate previously described PPIs as well as to identify novel NS1 interactors. We show that interacting with FASN allows NS1 to directly regulate the synthesis of cellular fatty acids. We also use md-LED to identify a mutant of NS1, D92Y, results in a loss of interaction with CPSF1. The use of high-throughput sequencing as the readout for md-LED enables sensitive quantification of interactions, ultimately enabling massively parallel experimentation for the investigation of PPIs.
PXD016782	32415162	Large database for the analysis and prediction of spliced and non-spliced peptide generation by proteasomes. 	Digestion of a variety of synthetic peptides by proteasomes	Synthetic peptides, digestion, proteasome	Proteasomes are the main producers of antigenic peptides presented to CD8(+) T cells. They can cut proteins and release their fragments or recombine non-contiguous fragments thereby generating novel sequences, i.e. spliced peptides. Understanding which are the driving forces and the sequence preferences of both reactions can streamline target discovery in immunotherapies against cancer, infection and autoimmunity. Here, we present a large database of spliced and non-spliced peptides generated by proteasomes in vitro, which is available as simple CSV file and as a MySQL database. To generate the database, we performed in vitro digestions of 55 unique synthetic polypeptide substrates with different proteasome isoforms and experimental conditions. We measured the samples using three mass spectrometers, filtered and validated putative peptides, identified 22,333 peptide product sequences (15,028 spliced and 7,305 non-spliced product sequences). Our database and datasets have been deposited to the Mendeley (doi:10.17632/nr7cs764rc.1) and PRIDE (PXD016782) repositories. We anticipate that this unique database can be a valuable source for predictors of proteasome-catalyzed peptide hydrolysis and splicing, with various future translational applications.
PXD018780	32415200	Cryo-EM structure of the volume-regulated anion channel LRRC8D isoform identifies features important for substrate permeation. 	Cryo-EM structure of the volume-regulated anion channel LRRC8D isoform identifies features important for substrate permeation	LRRC8D	Members of the leucine-rich repeat-containing 8 (LRRC8) protein family, composed of the five LRRC8A-E isoforms, are pore-forming components of the volume-regulated anion channel (VRAC). LRRC8A and at least one of the other LRRC8 isoforms assemble into heteromers to generate VRAC transport activities. Despite the availability of the LRRC8A structures, the structural basis of how LRRC8 isoforms other than LRRC8A contribute to the functional diversity of VRAC has remained elusive. Here, we present the structure of the human LRRC8D isoform, which enables the permeation of organic substrates through VRAC. The LRRC8D homo-hexamer structure displays a two-fold symmetric arrangement, and together with a structure-based electrophysiological analysis, revealed two key features. The pore constriction on the extracellular side is wider than that in the LRRC8A structures, which may explain the increased permeability of organic substrates. Furthermore, an N-terminal helix protrudes into the pore from the intracellular side and may be critical for gating.
PXD016966	32416165	Social isolation stress-resilient rats reveal energy shift from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation in hippocampal nonsynaptic mitochondria. 	Social isolation stress-resilient rats reveal energy metabolic shift in hippocampal nonsynaptic mitochondria	hippocampus, nonsynaptic mitochondria, rat, resilience	AIMS: To examine the differences in the hippocampal proteome profiles of resilience or susceptibility to chronic social isolation (CSIS), animal model of depression, and to identify biomarkers that can distinguish the two. MAIN METHODS: Comparative subproteomic approach was used to identify changes in hippocampal cytosol and nonsynaptic mitochondria (NSM) of CSIS-resilient compared to CSIS-sensitive or control rats. The resilient and sensitive phenotypes of CSIS rats were distinguished based on their sucrose preference values. Selected proteins were validated by Western blot or immunofluorescence. KEY FINDINGS: Predominantly down-regulated processes such as cytosolic cytoskeleton organization, the calcium signaling pathway, ubiquitin proteasome degradation, redox system, malate/aspartate shuttling and glutamate metabolism in CSIS-resilient compared to CSIS-sensitive rats were found. Decreased protein expression of glycolytic enzymes with simultaneous increased expression of Aco2 involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle and expression of several subunits composing oxidative phosphorylation involved enzymes (Uqcrc2, Atp5f1a, Atp5f1b) were found, indicating shift in energy production from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation in NSM. The four-fold higher level of mitochondrial glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase of resilient rats indicated its transfer from the cytosol to the NSM. An increased level of transketolase along with the reduced pyruvate kinase level suggested an activated pentose phosphate pathway in CSIS-resilient relative to control rats. Cytosolic up-regulated CSIS proteins were implicated in antioxidative and proteasomal systems, while down-regulated NSM protein was involved in oxidative phosphorylation. SIGNIFICANCE: The identified altered activated pathways and potential biomarkers enhance understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying resilience or susceptibility to CSIS, crucial in developing new therapeutic strategies.
PXD015951	32416315	The plasma proteome and the acute phase protein response in canine pyometra. 	Canine pyometra - plasma proteomics	Dog, TMT, pyometra, serum	Canine pyometra is a common inflammatory disease of uterus in sexually mature bitches caused by secondary bacterial infection, leading to change in plasma proteins associated with the innate immune system. Proteomic investigation is increasingly being applied to canine diseases in order to identify and quantify significant changes in the plasma proteome. The aim of the study was to assess and quantify changes in plasma proteome profiles of healthy dogs and pyometra affected bitches using a TMT-based high-resolution quantitative proteomic approach. As a result, 22 proteins were significantly down-regulated including transthyretin, antithrombin, retinol-binding protein, vitamin D binding protein, paraoxonase 1, and kallikrein, while 16 were significantly up-regulated including haptoglobin light chain, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, C-reactive protein precursor, and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein in dogs with pyometra. Pathway analysis indicated that acute inflammatory response, regulation of body fluid levels, protein activation cascade, the humoral immune response, and phagocytosis were affected in pyometra. Validation of biological relevance of the proteomic study was evident with significant increases in the concentrations of haptoglobin, C-reactive protein, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, and ceruloplasmin by immunoassay. Pyometra in bitches was shown to stimulate an increase in host defence system proteins in response to inflammatory disease including the acute phase proteins. SIGNIFICANCE: The label-based high-resolution quantitative proteomics analysis and bioinformatic approach used in this study provide insight into the complex pathophysiology of inflammation associated with pyometra revealing proteins with biomarker potential. Early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention may prevent severe complications associated with advancing sepsis in dogs with pyometra. Therefore the identification of diagnostic biomarkers that, after clinical validation may be used in veterinary practice and protein relevant to pathways responding to disease are important findings of the study. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015951.
PXD016938	32417293	Proteomic analysis of murine macrophages mitochondria and lysosomes reveal Cathepsin D as a potential broad-spectrum antimicrobial protein. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals the crucial roles of Cathepsin D in bacterial infections	Cathepsin D (CTSD)   Bacterial Infection   Mitochondria and Lysosomes Proteins   Mass Spectrometry	Bacterial resistance to antibiotics has become increasingly widespread, posing a serious threat to human life and health. Macrophages in the host's natural immune system can directly destroy most of bacteria. Therefore, exploring the function of macrophages' mitochondria and lysosomes in killing bacteria might help us overcome the problem of bacterial resistance. We used mass spectrometry to analyze the dynamic expression landscape of mitochondrial and lysosomal proteins in macrophages upon infection with Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We discovered that Cathepsin D (Ctsd) is up-regulated at the protein level during infection by all five bacteria. Ctsd inhibitor and knockout experiments confirmed that Ctsd is a potential broad-spectrum antibacterial protein. Ctsd should be investigated further as a potential drug target for new antibacterial treatments.
PXD018918	32417403	A PEROXO-Tag Enables Rapid Isolation of Peroxisomes from Human Cells. 	A PEROXO-Tag enables rapid isolation of peroxisomes from human cells	Human HEK-293T, peroxisome	Peroxisomes are metabolic organelles that perform a diverse array of critical functions in human physiology. Traditional isolation methods for peroxisomes can take more than 1 h to complete and can be laborious to implement. To address this, we have now extended our prior work on rapid organellar isolation to peroxisomes via the development of a peroxisomally localized 3XHA epitope tag ("PEROXO-Tag") and associated immunoprecipitation ("PEROXO-IP") workflow. Our PEROXO-IP workflow has excellent reproducibility, is easy to implement, and achieves highly rapid (~10 min post homogenization) and specific isolation of human peroxisomes, which we characterize here via proteomic profiling. By offering speed, specificity, reproducibility, and ease of use, the PEROXO-IP workflow should facilitate studies on the biology of peroxisomes.
PXD016373	32418125	Natural brominated phenoxyphenols kill persistent and biofilm-incorporated cells of MRSA and other pathogenic bacteria. 	Label free quantification of S. aureus treated with sub-lethal dose of a novel antibiotic	MRSA, Staphylococcus aureus, antibiotic, label free quantification	Due to a high unresponsiveness to chemotherapy, biofilm formation is an important medical problem that frequently occurs during infection with many bacterial pathogens. In this study, the marine sponge-derived natural compounds 4,6-dibromo-2-(2',4'-dibromophenoxy)phenol and 3,4,6-tribromo-2-(2',4'-dibromophenoxy)phenol were found to exhibit broad antibacterial activity against medically relevant gram-positive and gram-negative pathogens. The compounds were not only bactericidal against both replicating and stationary phase-persistent planktonic cells of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa; they also killed biofilm-incorporated cells of both species while not affecting biofilm structural integrity. Moreover, these compounds were active against carbapenemase-producing Enterobacter sp. This simultaneous activity of compounds against different growth forms of both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria is rare. Genome sequencing of spontaneous resistant mutants and proteome analysis suggest that resistance is mediated by downregulation of the bacterial EIIBC phosphotransferase components scrA and mtlA in MRSA likely leading to a lower uptake of the molecules. Due to their only moderate cytotoxicity against human cell lines, phenoxyphenols provide an interesting new scaffold for development of antimicrobial agents with activity against planktonic cells, persisters and biofilm-incoporated cells of ESKAPE pathogens. KEY POINTS: * Brominated phenoxyphenols kill actively replicating and biofilm-incorporated bacteria. * Phosphotransferase systems mediate uptake of brominated phenoxyphenols. * Downregulation of phosphotransferase systems mediate resistance.
PXD018248	32419461	Toward a Universal Sample Preparation Method for Denaturing Top-Down Proteomics of Complex Proteomes. 	Towards a universal sample preparation method for denaturing top-down proteomics of complex proteomes	CZE-MS/MS, PTMs, SDS, SP3, chloroform-methanol precipitation, denaturing top-down proteomics, histone, membrane proteins, membrane ultrafiltration, sample preparation	A universal and standardized sample preparation method becomes vital for denaturing top-down proteomics (dTDP) to advance the scale and accuracy of proteoform delineation in complex biological systems. It needs to have high protein recovery, minimum bias, good reproducibility, and compatibility with downstream mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. Here, we employed a lysis buffer containing sodium dodecyl sulfate for extracting proteoforms from cells and, for the first time, compared membrane ultrafiltration (MU), chloroform-methanol precipitation (CMP), and single-spot solid-phase sample preparation using magnetic beads (SP3) for proteoform cleanup for dTDP. The MU method outperformed CMP and SP3 methods, resulting in high and reproducible protein recovery from both Escherichia coli cell (59 +/- 3%) and human HepG2 cell (86 +/- 5%) samples without a significant bias. Single-shot capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE)-MS/MS analyses of the prepared E. coli and HepG2 cell samples using the MU method identified 821 and 516 proteoforms, respectively. Nearly 30 and 50% of the identified E. coli and HepG2 proteins are membrane proteins. CZE-MS/MS identified 94 histone proteoforms from the HepG2 sample with various post-translational modifications, including acetylation, methylation, and phosphorylation. Our results suggest that combining the SDS-based protein extraction and the MU-based protein cleanup could be a universal sample preparation method for dTDP. The MS raw data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the data set identifier PXD018248.
PXD018098	32420802	TMT-based quantitative proteomics analysis reveals the attenuated replication mechanism of Newcastle disease virus caused by nuclear localization signal mutation in viral matrix protein. 	TMT-based quantitative proteomics analysis reveals the attenuated replication mechanism of Newcastle disease virus caused by nuclear localization signal mutation in viral matrix protein	Newcastle disease virus, TMT, matrix protein, nuclear localization signal, nucleocytoplasmic trafficking, quantitative proteomics	Nuclear localization of cytoplasmic RNA virus proteins mediated by intrinsic nuclear localization signal (NLS) plays essential roles in successful virus replication. We previously reported that NLS mutation in the matrix (M) protein obviously attenuates the replication and pathogenicity of Newcastle disease virus (NDV), but the attenuated replication mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we showed that M/NLS mutation not only disrupted M's nucleocytoplasmic trafficking characteristic but also impaired viral RNA synthesis and transcription. Using TMT-based quantitative proteomics analysis of BSR-T7/5 cells infected with the parental NDV rSS1GFP and the mutant NDV rSS1GFP-M/NLSm harboring M/NLS mutation, we found that rSS1GFP infection stimulated much greater quantities and more expression changes of differentially expressed proteins involved in host cell transcription, ribosomal structure, posttranslational modification, and intracellular trafficking than rSS1GFP-M/NLSm infection. Further in-depth analysis revealed that the dominant nuclear accumulation of M protein inhibited host cell transcription, RNA processing and modification, protein synthesis, posttranscriptional modification and transport; and this kind of inhibition could be weakened when most of M protein was confined outside the nucleus. More importantly, we found that the function of M protein in the cytoplasm effected the inhibition of TIFA expression in a dose-dependent manner, and promoted NDV replication by down-regulating TIFA/TRAF6/NF-kappaB-mediated production of cytokines. It was the first report about the involvement of M protein in NDV immune evasion. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that NDV replication is closely related to the nucleocytoplasmic trafficking of M protein, which accelerates our understanding of the molecular functions of NDV M protein.
PXD018143	32421830	Che-1/AATF binds to RNA polymerase I machinery and sustains ribosomal RNA gene transcription. 	Human nucleolar RNA pol I interacting proteins identified by immuno-precipitation and mass spectrometry	human RNApolI interactors from nucleoli	Originally identified as an RNA polymerase II interactor, Che-1/AATF (Che-1) has now been recognized as a multifunctional protein involved in cell-cycle regulation and cancer progression, as well as apoptosis inhibition and response to stress. This protein displays a peculiar nucleolar localization and it has recently been implicated in pre-rRNA processing and ribosome biogenesis. Here, we report the identification of a novel function of Che-1 in the regulation of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) synthesis, in both cancer and normal cells. We demonstrate that Che-1 interacts with RNA polymerase I and nucleolar upstream binding factor (UBF) and promotes RNA polymerase I-dependent transcription. Furthermore, this protein binds to the rRNA gene (rDNA) promoter and modulates its epigenetic state by contrasting the recruitment of HDAC1. Che-1 downregulation affects RNA polymerase I and UBF recruitment on rDNA and leads to reducing rDNA promoter activity and 47S pre-rRNA production. Interestingly, Che-1 depletion induces abnormal nucleolar morphology associated with re-distribution of nucleolar proteins. Finally, we show that upon DNA damage Che-1 re-localizes from rDNA to TP53 gene promoter to induce cell-cycle arrest. This previously uncharacterized function of Che-1 confirms the important role of this protein in the regulation of ribosome biogenesis, cellular proliferation and response to stress.
PXD018776	32422275	Proteomic analysis of Trypanosoma cruzi spliceosome complex. 	Proteomic Analysis of Trypanosoma cruzi Spliceosome Complex	splicing, trypanosoma	The unicellular protists of the group Kinetoplastida include the genera Leishmania and Trypanosoma, which are pathogens of invertebrate and vertebrate animals. Despite their medical and economical importance, critical aspects of their biology such as specific molecular characteristics of gene expression regulation are just beginning to be deciphered. Gene expression regulation also depends on post-transcriptional processing steps, such as the trans-splicing process. Despite being widely used in trypanosomes, trans-splicing is a rare event in other eukaryotes. We sought to describe the protein composition of spliceosomes in epimastigotes of T. cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. We used two TAP-tagged proteins to affinity purify spliceosomes and analyzed their composition by mass spectrometry. Among the 115 identified proteins we detected conserved spliceosome components, as Sm and LSm proteins, RNA helicases, U2- and U5-snRNP specific proteins. Importantly, by comparing our data with proteomic data of human and T. brucei spliceosome complexes, we observed a core group of proteins common to all spliceosomes. By using amino acid sequence comparisons, we identified RNA-associated proteins that might be involved with splicing regulation in T. cruzi, namely the orthologous of WDR33, PABPCL1 and three different HNRNPs. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018776.
PXD018764	32422593	Quantitative Proteomics Identifies TCF1 as a Negative Regulator of Foxp3 Expression in Conventional T Cells. 	Inverted chromatin immunoprecipitation identifies Tcf1 as a negative regulator of Foxp3 expression	Foxp3-promoter, Regulatory T (Treg) cells, T-cell factor 1 (Tcf1)	Regulatory T cells are important regulators of the immune system and have versatile functions for the homeostasis and repair of tissues. They express the forkhead box transcription factor Foxp3 as a lineage-defining protein. Negative regulators of Foxp3 expression are not well understood. Here, we generated double-stranded DNA probes complementary to the Foxp3 promoter sequence and performed a pull-down with nuclear protein in vitro, followed by elution of bound proteins and quantitative mass spectrometry. Of the Foxp3-promoter-binding transcription factors identified with this approach, one was T cell factor 1 (TCF1). Using viral over-expression, we identified TCF1 as a repressor of Foxp3 expression. In TCF1-deficient animals, increased levels of Foxp3(intermediate)CD25(negative) T cells were identified. CRISPR-Cas9 knockout studies in primary human and mouse conventional CD4 T (Tconv) cells revealed that TCF1 protects Tconv cells from inadvertent Foxp3 expression. Our data implicate a role of TCF1 in suppressing Foxp3 expression in activated T cells.
PXD019066	32423001	EDEM1 Drives Misfolded Protein Degradation via ERAD and Exploits ER-Phagy as Back-Up Mechanism When ERAD Is Impaired. 	EDEM1 interaction proteomics in HEK293T cells	EDEM1, ER-phagy, ERAD, LTQ-Orbitrap Velos Pro, proteasomal degradation	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation (ERAD) is the main mechanism of targeting ER proteins for degradation to maintain homeostasis, and perturbations of ERAD lead to pathological conditions. ER-degradation enhancing alpha-mannosidase-like (EDEM1) was proposed to extract terminally misfolded proteins from the calnexin folding cycle and target them for degradation by ERAD. Here, using mass-spectrometry and biochemical methods, we show that EDEM1 is found in auto-regulatory complexes with ERAD components. Moreover, the N-terminal disordered region of EDEM1 mediates protein-protein interaction with misfolded proteins, whilst the absence of this domain significantly impairs their degradation. We also determined that overexpression of EDEM1 can induce degradation, even when proteasomal activity is severely impaired, by promoting the formation of aggregates, which can be further degraded by autophagy. Therefore, we propose that EDEM1 maintains ER homeostasis and mediates ERAD client degradation via autophagy when either dislocation or proteasomal degradation are impaired.
PXD018588	32424025	PolySTest: Robust Statistical Testing of Proteomics Data with Missing Values Improves Detection of Biologically Relevant Features. 	Label free proteomics analysis of differentiating human muscle cells.	label free, muscle, stem cells	Statistical testing remains one of the main challenges for high-confidence detection of differentially regulated proteins or peptides in large-scale quantitative proteomics experiments by mass spectrometry. Statistical tests need to be sufficiently robust to deal with experiment intrinsic data structures and variations and often also reduced feature coverage across different biological samples due to ubiquitous missing values. A robust statistical test provides accurate confidence scores of large-scale proteomics results, regardless of instrument platform, experimental protocol and software tools. However, the multitude of different combinations of experimental strategies, mass spectrometry techniques and informatics methods complicate the decision of choosing appropriate statistical approaches. We address this challenge by introducing PolySTest, a user-friendly web service for statistical testing, data browsing and data visualization. We introduce a new method, Miss test, that simultaneously tests for missingness and feature abundance, thereby complementing common statistical tests by rescuing otherwise discarded data features. We demonstrate that PolySTest with integrated Miss test achieves higher confidence and higher sensitivity for artificial and experimental proteomics data sets with known ground truth. Application of PolySTest to mass spectrometry based large-scale proteomics data obtained from differentiating muscle cells resulted in the rescue of 10-20% additional proteins in the identified molecular networks relevant to muscle differentiation. We conclude that PolySTest is a valuable addition to existing tools and instrument enhancements that improve coverage and depth of large-scale proteomics experiments. A fully functional demo version of PolySTest and Miss test is available via http://computproteomics.bmb.sdu.dk/Apps/PolySTest.
PXD015625	32424245	Tools for successful proliferation: diverse strategies of nutrient acquisition by a benthic cyanobacterium. 	Freshwater benthic cyanobacterial biofilm LC-MSMS	Microcoleus	Freshwater cyanobacterial blooms have increased worldwide, channeling organic carbon into these systems, and threatening animal health through the production of cyanotoxins. Both toxic and nontoxic Microcoleus proliferations usually occur when there are moderate concentrations of dissolved inorganic nitrogen, but when phosphorus is scarce. In order to understand how Microcoleus establishes thick biofilms (or mats) on riverbeds under phosphorus-limiting conditions, we collected Microcoleus-dominated biofilms over a 19-day proliferation event for proteogenomics. A single pair of nitrogen-dependent Microcoleus species were consistently present in relatively high abundance, although each followed a unique metabolic trajectory. Neither possessed anatoxin gene clusters, and only very low concentrations of anatoxins (~2 microg kg(-1)) were detected, likely originating from rarer Microcoleus species also present. Proteome allocations were dominated by photosynthesizing cyanobacteria and diatoms, and data indicate biomass was actively recycled by Bacteroidetes and Myxococcales. Microcoleus likely acquired nutrients throughout the proliferation event by uptake of nitrate, urea, and inorganic and organic phosphorus. Both species also harbored genes that could be used for inorganic phosphate solubilization with pyrroloquinoline quinone cofactors produced by cohabiting Proteobacteria. Results indicate that Microcoleus are equipped with diverse mechanisms for nitrogen and phosphorus acquisition, enabling them to proliferate and out-compete others in low-phosphorus waters.
PXD016798	32424247	Non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals enhance the transmission of exogenous antibiotic resistance genes through bacterial transformation. 	Proteomic analysis of Acinetobacter baylyi ADP1 under exposure of non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals	Acinetobacter baylyi ADP1, SWATH-MS, bacteria, non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals	Antibiotic resistance is a serious global threat for public health. Considering the high abundance of cell-free DNA encoding antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in both clinical and environmental settings, natural transformation is an important horizontal gene transfer pathway to transmit antibiotic resistance. It is acknowledged that antibiotics are key drivers for disseminating antibiotic resistance, yet the contributions of non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals on transformation of ARGs are overlooked. In this study, we report that some commonly consumed non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals, at clinically and environmentally relevant concentrations, significantly facilitated the spread of antibiotic resistance through the uptake of exogenous ARGs. This included nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, ibuprofen, naproxen, diclofenac, the lipid-lowering drug, gemfibrozil, and the beta-blocker propranolol. Based on the results of flow cytometry, whole-genome RNA sequencing and proteomic analysis, the enhanced transformation of ARGs was affiliated with promoted bacterial competence, enhanced stress levels, over-produced reactive oxygen species and increased cell membrane permeability. In addition, a mathematical model was proposed and calibrated to predict the dynamics of transformation during exposure to non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals. Given the high consumption of non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals, these findings reveal new concerns regarding antibiotic resistance dissemination exacerbated by non-antibiotic pharmaceuticals.
PXD014015	32424275	Enhancer reprogramming driven by high-order assemblies of transcription factors promotes phenotypic plasticity and breast cancer endocrine resistance. 	Coordinate Enhancer Reprogramming by GATA3 and AP1 Promotes Phenotypic Plasticity to Achieve Breast Cancer Endocrine Resistance	BioID, ER-alpha	Acquired therapy resistance is a major problem for anticancer treatment, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Using an established breast cancer cellular model, we show that endocrine resistance is associated with enhanced phenotypic plasticity, indicated by a general downregulation of luminal/epithelial differentiation markers and upregulation of basal/mesenchymal invasive markers. Consistently, similar gene expression changes are found in clinical breast tumours and patient-derived xenograft samples that are resistant to endocrine therapies. Mechanistically, the differential interactions between oestrogen receptor alpha and other oncogenic transcription factors, exemplified by GATA3 and AP1, drive global enhancer gain/loss reprogramming, profoundly altering breast cancer transcriptional programs. Our functional studies in multiple culture and xenograft models reveal a coordinated role of GATA3 and AP1 in re-organizing enhancer landscapes and regulating cancer phenotypes. Collectively, our study suggests that differential high-order assemblies of transcription factors on enhancers trigger genome-wide enhancer reprogramming, resulting in transcriptional transitions that promote tumour phenotypic plasticity and therapy resistance.
PXD017939	32424773	Mechanisms of Regulation and Diverse Activities of Tau-Tubulin Kinase (TTBK) Isoforms. 	Identification of TTBK1 autophosphorylation sites in HEK293 cells	Autophosphorylation site, TTBK1	Tau-tubulin kinase 1 (TTBK1) is a CNS-specific, kinase that has been implicated in the pathological phosphorylation of tau in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD). TTBK1 is a challenging therapeutic target because it shares a highly conserved catalytic domain with its homolog, TTBK2, a ubiquitously expressed kinase genetically linked to the disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 11. The present study attempts to elucidate the functional distinctions between the TTBK isoforms and increase our understanding of them as distinct targets for the treatment of neurodegenerative disease. We demonstrate that in cortical neurons, TTBK1, not TTBK2, is the isoform responsible for tau phosphorylation at epitopes enriched in tauopathies such as Serine 422. In addition, although our elucidation of the crystal structure of the TTBK2 kinase domain indicates almost identical structural similarity with TTBK1, biochemical and cellular assays demonstrate that the enzymatic activity of these two proteins is regulated by a combination of unique extra-catalytic sequences and autophosphorylation events. Finally, we have identified an unbiased list of neuronal interactors and phosphorylation substrates for TTBK1 and TTBK2 that highlight the unique cellular pathways and functional networks that each isoform is involved in. This data address an important gap in knowledge regarding the implications of targeting TTBK kinases and may prove valuable in the development of potential therapies for disease.
PXD017139	32425043	Site-Specific N-Glycoproteomic Analysis Reveals Upregulated Sialylation and Core Fucosylation during Transient Regeneration Loss in Neonatal Mouse Hearts. 	Site-specific N-glycan Analysis of Neonatal Mouse Hearts	Glycoproteomics, Intact glycopeptides, Neonatal mouse heart, Site-specific glycosylation	Myocardial infarction (MI) is one of the leading causes of deaths worldwide. Because of the incapability of regeneration, the cardiomyocyte loss with MI is replaced by fibrotic scar tissue, which eventually leads to heart failure. Reconstructing regeneration of an adult human heart has been recognized as a promising strategy for cardiac therapeutics. A neonatal mouse heart, which possesses transient regenerative capacity at the first week after birth, represents an ideal model to investigate processes associated with cardiac regeneration. In this work, an integrated glycoproteomic and proteomic analysis was performed to investigate the differences in glycoprotein abundances and site-specific glycosylation between postneonatal day 1 (P1) and day 7 (P7) of mouse hearts. By large-scale profiling and quantifying more than 2900 intact N-glycopeptides in neonatal mouse hearts, we identified 227 altered N-glycopeptides between P1 and P7 hearts. By extracting protein changes from the global proteome data, the normalized glycosylation changes for site-specific glycans were obtained, which showed heterogeneity on glycosites and glycoproteins. Systematic analysis of the glycosylation changes demonstrated an overall upregulation of sialylation and core fucosylation in P7 mice. Notably, the upregulated sialylation was a comprehensive result of increased sialylated glycans with Neu5Gc, with both Neu5Gc and core fucose, and decreased sialylated glycans with Neu5Ac. The upregulated core fucosylation resulted from the increase of glycans containing both core fucose and Neu5Gc but not glycans containing sole core fucose. These data provide a valuable resource for future functional and mechanism studies on heart regeneration and discovery of novel therapeutic targets. All mass spectrometry proteomic data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD017139.
PXD016183	32425555	Phosphoproteomics Reveals Key Regulatory Kinases and Modulated Pathways Associated with Ovarian Cancer Tumors. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals key regulatory kinases and modulated pathways involved in tumorigenesis of ovarian cancer	Ti4+-IMAC, biomarker, kinases, ovarian cancer, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer (OC) is the seventh most common cancer worldwide for women. However, there are no sufficient diagnostic methods and few treatment options available due to poor understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. METHODS: To comprehensively analyze the phosphoproteomic characterization for OC, we took advantage of a quantitative global phosphoproteomics method, titanium(IV) immobilized metal affinity chromatography (Ti(4+)-IMAC) coupled to nanoscale liquid chromatography and quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (nanoLC/Q-TOF-MS/MS) on ovarian tissue samples obtained from five OC patients and five matched controls. RESULTS: A total of 722 phosphorylated sites corresponding to 534 proteins were significantly different (fold change >= 2, p < 0.01) between OC patients and the controls. Among them, 83 transcription factors mainly consisted of transcription cofactors, zf-C2H2, and chromatin remodeling factors and 29 kinases were included. Further functional analysis suggested significantly biological processes were highly enriched and involved in the pathogenesis of OC, especially fructose and mannose metabolism. Moreover, the regulatory roles of modulated pathways, including MAPK, ErbB, and GnRH signaling pathways were also identified as critical processes involved in OC. The results here highlighted key phosphorylated proteins, particularly kinases, and the corresponding cancer-related metabolic and signal pathways that played important roles in the development of OC. Additionally, the expression levels of two kinases, phosphorylated CDK (T14) and phosphorylated PRKCQ (S695), were validated by Western blot analysis in the other group of ovarian tissue samples. CONCLUSION: Altogether, our data not only provided novel insights into the potential biomarkers and therapy options for OC but also extended our knowledge on its pathophysiological mechanism.
PXD017788	32425810	Metabolic Reprogramming of Mouse Bone Marrow Derived Macrophages Following Erythrophagocytosis. 	Mouse BMDMs and Erythrophagocytosis LCMSMS	BMDMs, LCMSMS, RBCs	Reticuloendothelial macrophages engulf ~0.2 trillion senescent erythrocytes daily in a process called erythrophagocytosis (EP). This critical mechanism preserves systemic heme-iron homeostasis by regulating red blood cell (RBC) catabolism and iron recycling. Although extensive work has demonstrated the various effects on macrophage metabolic reprogramming by stimulation with proinflammatory cytokines, little is known about the impact of EP on the macrophage metabolome and proteome. Thus, we performed mass spectrometry-based metabolomics and proteomics analyses of mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) before and after EP of IgG-coated RBCs. Further, metabolomics was performed on BMDMs incubated with free IgG to ensure that changes to macrophage metabolism were due to opsonized RBCs and not to free IgG binding. Uniformly labeled tracing experiments were conducted on BMDMs in the presence and absence of IgG-coated RBCs to assess the flux of glucose through the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). In this study, we demonstrate that EP significantly alters amino acid and fatty acid metabolism, the Krebs cycle, OXPHOS, and arachidonate-linoleate metabolism. Increases in levels of amino acids, lipids and oxylipins, heme products, and RBC-derived proteins are noted in BMDMs following EP. Tracing experiments with U-(13)C6 glucose indicated a slower flux through glycolysis and enhanced PPP activation. Notably, we show that it is fueled by glucose derived from the macrophages themselves or from the extracellular media prior to EP, but not from opsonized RBCs. The PPP-derived NADPH can then fuel the oxidative burst, leading to the generation of reactive oxygen species necessary to promote digestion of phagocytosed RBC proteins via radical attack. Results were confirmed by redox proteomics experiments, demonstrating the oxidation of Cys152 and Cys94 of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and hemoglobin-beta, respectively. Significant increases in early Krebs cycle and C5-branched dibasic acid metabolites (alpha-ketoglutarate and 2-hydroxyglutarate, respectively) indicate that EP promotes the dysregulation of mitochondrial metabolism. Lastly, EP stimulated aminolevulinic acid (ALA) synthase and arginase activity as indicated by significant accumulations of ALA and ornithine after IgG-mediated RBC ingestion. Importantly, EP-mediated metabolic reprogramming of BMDMs does not occur following exposure to IgG alone. In conclusion, we show that EP reprograms macrophage metabolism and modifies macrophage polarization.
PXD012967	32425905	Lactobacillus acidophilus Membrane Vesicles as a Vehicle of Bacteriocin Delivery. 	Bacteriocins in Lactobacillus acidophlius membrane vesicles	Lactobacillus, membrane vesicles, targeted proteomics	Recent reports have shown that Gram-positive bacteria actively secrete spherical nanometer-sized proteoliposome membrane vesicles (MVs) into their surroundings. Though MVs are implicated in a broad range of biological functions, few studies have been conducted to examine their potential as delivery vehicles of antimicrobials. Here, we investigate the natural ability of Lactobacillus acidophilus MVs to carry and deliver bacteriocin peptides to the opportunistic pathogen, Lactobacillus delbrueckii. We demonstrate that upon treatment with lactacin B-inducing peptide, the proteome of the secreted MVs is enriched in putative bacteriocins encoded by the lab operon. Further, we show that purified MVs inhibit growth and compromise membrane integrity in L. delbrueckii, which is confirmed by confocal microscopy imaging and spectrophotometry. These results show that L. acidophilus MVs serve as conduits for antimicrobials to competing cells in the environment, suggesting a potential role for MVs in complex communities such as the gut microbiome. With the potential for controlling their payload through microbial engineering, MVs produced by L. acidophilus may be an interesting platform for effecting change in complex microbial communities or aiding in the development of new biomedical therapeutics.
PXD016406	32426269	Heterogeneities of Site-Specific N-Glycosylation in HCC Tumors With Low and High AFP Concentrations. 	Intact N-glycopeptides and proteomics from HCC tissue tumors with low and high AFP concentrations	Hepatocellular carcinoma, intact glycopeptide	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still one of the malignant tumors with high morbidity and mortality in China and worldwide. Although alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) as well as core fucosylated AFP-L3 have been widely used as important biomarkers for HCC diagnosis and evaluation, the AFP level shows a huge variation among HCC patient populations. In addition, the AFP level has also been proved to be associated with pathological grade, progression, and survival of HCC patients. Understanding the intrinsic heterogeneities of HCC associated with AFP levels is essential for the molecular mechanism studies of HCC with different AFP levels as well as for the potential early diagnosis and personalized treatment of HCC with AFP negative. In this study, an integrated N-glycoproteomic and proteomic analysis of low and high AFP levels of HCC tumors was performed to investigate the intrinsic heterogeneities of site-specific glycosylation associated with different AFP levels of HCC. By large-scale profiling and quantifying more than 4,700 intact N-glycopeptides from 20 HCC and 20 paired paracancer samples, we identified many commonly altered site-specific N-glycans from HCC tumors regardless of AFP levels, including decreased modifications by oligo-mannose and sialylated bi-antennary glycans, and increased modifications by bisecting glycans. By relative quantifying the intact N-glycopeptides between low and high AFP tumor groups, the great heterogeneities of site-specific N-glycans between two groups of HCC tumors were also uncovered. We found that several sialylated but not core fucosylated tri-antennary glycans were uniquely increased in low AFP level of HCC tumors, while many core fucosylated bi-antennary or hybrid glycans as well as bisecting glycans were uniquely increased in high AFP tumors. The data provide a valuable resource for future HCC studies regarding the mechanism, heterogeneities and new biomarker discovery.
PXD017434	32426479	RasGRP1 is a causal factor in the development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease. 	RasGRP1 is a Causal Factor in the Development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson Disease	Parkinson Disease, RasGRP1, dyskinesia	The therapeutic effects of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) severely diminishes with the onset of abnormal involuntary movement, l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). However, the molecular mechanisms that promote LID remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that RasGRP1 [(guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF)] controls the development of LID. l-DOPA treatment rapidly up-regulated RasGRP1 in the striatum of mouse and macaque model of PD. The lack of RasGRP1 in mice (RasGRP1(-/-) ) dramatically diminished LID without interfering with the therapeutic effects of l-DOPA. Besides acting as a GEF for Ras homolog enriched in the brain (Rheb), the activator of the mammalian target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR), RasGRP1 promotes l-DOPA-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and the mTOR signaling in the striatum. High-resolution tandem mass spectrometry analysis revealed multiple RasGRP1 downstream targets linked to LID vulnerability. Collectively, the study demonstrated that RasGRP1 is a critical striatal regulator of LID.
PXD016836	32427840	2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase regulates lipid homeostasis in treatment-resistant prostate cancer. 	Regulation of lipid homeostasis in treatment-resistant prostate cancer	CRPC, Enzalutamide, LNCAP, Lipid Metabolism, Organoids, Prostate cancer	Despite the clinical success of Androgen Receptor (AR)-targeted therapies, reactivation of AR signalling remains the main driver of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) progression. In this study, we perform a comprehensive unbiased characterisation of LNCaP cells chronically exposed to multiple AR inhibitors (ARI). Combined proteomics and metabolomics analyses implicate an acquired metabolic phenotype common in ARI-resistant cells and associated with perturbed glucose and lipid metabolism. To exploit this phenotype, we delineate a subset of proteins consistently associated with ARI resistance and highlight mitochondrial 2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase (DECR1), an auxiliary enzyme of beta-oxidation, as a clinically relevant biomarker for CRPC. Mechanistically, DECR1 participates in redox homeostasis by controlling the balance between saturated and unsaturated phospholipids. DECR1 knockout induces ER stress and sensitises CRPC cells to ferroptosis. In vivo, DECR1 deletion impairs lipid metabolism and reduces CRPC tumour growth, emphasizing the importance of DECR1 in the development of treatment resistance.
PXD017869	32428081	Characterising ISWI chromatin remodeler in Trypanosoma cruzi. 	Affinity Purification of ISWI chromatin remodeler in Trypanosoma cruzi	ISWI, Trypanosoma cruzi, affinity purification	BACKGROUND Imitation SWItch (ISWI) ATPase is the catalytic subunit in diverse chromatin remodeling complexes. These complexes modify histone-DNA interactions and therefore play a pivotal role in different DNA-dependent processes. In Trypanosoma cruzi, a protozoan that controls gene expression principally post-transcriptionally, the transcriptional regulation mechanisms mediated by chromatin remodeling are poorly understood. OBJECTIVE To characterise the ISWI remodeler in T. cruzi (TcISWI). METHODS A new version of pTcGW vectors was constructed to express green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged TcISWI. CRISPR-Cas9 system was used to obtain parasites with inactivated TcISWI gene and we determined TcISWI partners by cryomilling-affinity purification-mass spectrometry (MS) assay as an approximation to start to unravel the function of this protein. FINDINGS Our approach identified known ISWI partners [nucleoplasmin-like protein (NLP), regulator of chromosome condensation 1-like protein (RCCP) and phenylalanine/tyrosine-rich protein (FYRP)], previously characterised in T. brucei, and new components in TcISWI complex [DRBD2, DHH1 and proteins containing a domain characteristic of structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) proteins]. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017869. MAIN CONCLUSIONS In addition to its participation in transcriptional silencing, as it was reported in T. brucei, the data generated here provide a framework that suggests a role for TcISWI chromatin remodeler in different nuclear processes in T. cruzi, including mRNA nuclear export control and chromatin compaction. Further work is necessary to clarify the TcISWI functional diversity that arises from this protein interaction study.
PXD017193	32429667	Improved Discrimination of Asymmetric and Symmetric Arginine Dimethylation by Optimization of the Normalized Collision Energy in Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry Proteomics. 	Improved discrimination of asymmetric and symmetric protein arginine dimethylation by optimizing the normalized collision energy in LC-MS proteomics	ADMA, HCD, LCMS, PRMT, PTM, SDMA, arginine, methylation, neutral loss	Protein arginine methylation regulates diverse biological processes including signaling, metabolism, splicing, and transcription. Despite its important biological roles, arginine dimethylation remains an understudied post-translational modification. Partly, this is because the two forms of arginine dimethylation, asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA), are isobaric and therefore indistinguishable by traditional mass spectrometry techniques. Thus, there exists a need for methods that can differentiate these two modifications. Recently, it has been shown that the ADMA and SDMA can be distinguished by the characteristic neutral loss (NL) of dimethylamine and methylamine, respectively. However, the utility of this method is limited because the vast majority of dimethylarginine peptides do not generate measurable NL ions. Here, we report that increasing the normalized collision energy (NCE) in a higher-energy collisional dissociation cell increases the generation of the characteristic NLs that distinguish ADMA and SDMA. By analyzing both synthetic and endogenous methyl-peptides, we identify an optimal NCE value that maximizes NL generation and simultaneously improves methyl-peptide identification. Using two orthogonal methyl-peptide enrichment strategies, high pH strong cation-exchange and immunoaffinity purification, we demonstrate that the optimal NCE improves NL-based ADMA and SDMA annotation and dimethyl-peptide identifications by 125% and 17%, respectively, compared to the standard NCE. This simple parameter change will greatly facilitate the identification and annotation of ADMA and SDMA in mass spectrometry-based methyl-proteomics to improve our understanding of how these modifications differentially regulate protein function. All raw data have been deposited in the PRIDE database with accession number PXD017193.
PXD009960	32429845	Proteome profile changes during poly-hydroxybutyrate intracellular mobilization in gram positive Bacillus cereus tsu1. 	(TMT)-quantitative proteomic study of Bacillus cereus tsu1	PHB pathway proteins, TMT-quantitative proteomics, protein profile of Bacillus cereus tsu1	BACKGROUND: Bacillus cereus is a bacterial species which grows efficiently on a wide range of carbon sources and accumulates biopolymer poly-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) up to 80% cell dry weight. PHB is an aliphatic polymer produced and stored intracellularly as a reservoir of carbon and energy, its mobilization is a key biological process for sporulation in Bacillus spp. Previously, B. cereus tsu1 was isolated and cultured on rapeseed cake substrate (RCS), with maximum of PHB accumulation reached within 12 h, and depleted after 48 h. Fore-spore and spore structure were observed after 24 h culture. RESULTS: Quantitative proteomic analysis of B. cereus tsu1 identified 2952 quantifiable proteins, and 244 significantly changed proteins (SCPs) in the 24 h:12 h pair of samples, and 325 SCPs in the 48 h:12 h pair of samples. Based on gene ontology classification analysis, biological processes enriched only in the 24 h:12 h SCPs include purine nucleotide metabolism, protein folding, metal ion homeostasis, response to stress, carboxylic acid catabolism, and cellular amino acid catabolism. The 48 h:12 h SCPs were enriched into processes including carbohydrate metabolism, protein metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and formation of translation ternary structure. A key enzyme for PHB metabolism, poly(R)-hydroxyalkanoic acid synthase (PhaC, KGT44865) accumulated significantly higher in 12 h-culture. Sporulation related proteins SigF and SpoEII were significantly higher in 24 h-samples. Enzymes for nitrate respiration and fermentation accumulated to the highest abundance level in 48 h-culture. CONCLUSIONS: Changes in proteome of B. cereus tsu1 during PHB intracellular mobilization were characterized in this study. The key enzyme PhaC for PHB synthesis increased significantly after 12 h-culture which supports the highest PHB accumulation at this time point. The protein abundance level of SpoIIE and SigF also increased, correlating with sporulation in 24 h-culture. Enzymes for nitrate respiration and fermentation were significantly induced in 48 h-culture which indicates the depletion of oxygen at this stage and carbon flow towards fermentative growth. Results from this study provide insights into proteome profile changes during PHB accumulation and reuse, which can be applied to achieve a higher PHB yield and to improve bacterial growth performance and stress resistance.
PXD015038	32430394	Dynamic Transcriptomic and Phosphoproteomic Analysis During Cell Wall Stress in Aspergillus nidulans. 	Dynamic study of the cell wall integrity signaling pathway in Aspergillus nidulans	Aspergillus nidulans, LFQ, cell wall integrity signaling, dynamic, micafungin, phosphoproteomics	The fungal cell-wall integrity signaling (CWIS) pathway regulates cellular response to environmental stress to enable wall repair and resumption of normal growth. This complex, interconnected, pathway has been only partially characterized in filamentous fungi. To better understand the dynamic cellular response to wall perturbation, a beta-glucan synthase inhibitor (micafungin) was added to a growing A. nidulans shake-flask culture. From this flask, transcriptomic and phosphoproteomic data were acquired over 10 and 120 min, respectively. To differentiate statistically-significant dynamic behavior from noise, a multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) model was applied to both data sets. Over 1800 genes were dynamically expressed and over 700 phosphorylation sites had changing phosphorylation levels upon micafungin exposure. Twelve kinases had altered phosphorylation and phenotypic profiling of all non-essential kinase deletion mutants revealed putative connections between PrkA, Hk-8-4, and Stk19 and the CWIS pathway. Our collective data implicate actin regulation, endocytosis, and septum formation as critical cellular processes responding to activation of the CWIS pathway, and connections between CWIS and calcium, HOG, and SIN signaling pathways.
PXD017729	32432549	Drosophila SWR1 and NuA4 complexes are defined by DOMINO isoforms. 	Drosophila SWR1 and NuA4 complexes are defined by DOMINO isoform	DOMINO, Drosophila, H3ac, H4ac, NuA4, SWR1	Histone acetylation and deposition of H2A.Z variant are integral aspects of active transcription. In Drosophila, the single DOMINO chromatin regulator complex is thought to combine both activities via an unknown mechanism. Here we show that alternative isoforms of the DOMINO nucleosome remodeling ATPase, DOM-A and DOM-B, directly specify two distinct multi-subunit complexes. Both complexes are necessary for transcriptional regulation but through different mechanisms. The DOM-B complex incorporates H2A.V (the fly ortholog of H2A.Z) genome-wide in an ATP-dependent manner, like the yeast SWR1 complex. The DOM-A complex, instead, functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferase complex similar to the yeast NuA4, targeting lysine 12 of histone H4. Our work provides an instructive example of how different evolutionary strategies lead to similar functional separation. In yeast and humans, nucleosome remodeling and histone acetyltransferase complexes originate from gene duplication and paralog specification. Drosophila generates the same diversity by alternative splicing of a single gene.
PXD019016	32432658	Overcoming off-targets: assessing Western blot signals for Bcnt/Cfdp1, a tentative component of the chromatin remodeling complex. 	Overcoming off-targets: Assessing western blot signals for Bcnt/Cfdp1, a tentative component of the chromatin remodeling complex	BCNT	The Bucentaur (BCNT) protein family is characterized by a conserved amino acid sequence at the C-terminus (BCNT-C domain) and plays an essential role in gene expression and chromosomal maintenance in yeast and Drosophila. The mammalian Bucentaur/Craniofacial developmental protein 1 (Bcnt/Cfdp1) is also a tentative component of the SNF2-related CBP activator protein (Srcap) chromatin remodeling complex, but little is known about its properties, partly because few antibodies are available to examine the endogenous protein. In this paper, we assigned the Western blot signal against the mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1 as a doublet of approximately 45 kDa using anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 antibodies, which were generated against either of two unrelated immunogens, BCNT-C domain or mouse N-terminal peptide, and in addition, the Cfdp1 knockdown mouse ES cell line and bovine tissue were used as potential negative controls. Moreover, LC-MS/MS analysis of the corresponding doublet to the Flag-tagged mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1 that was constitutively expressed in a HEK293 cell exhibited that the upper band was much more phosphorylated than the lower band with preferential Ser phosphorylation in the WESF motif of BCNT-C domain. Western blot analysis with these evaluated antibodies indicated a preferential expression of Bcnt/Cfdp1 in the early stages of brain development of mouse and rat, which is consistent with a data file of the expression of Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA.
PXD014254	32433612	TASL is the SLC15A4-associated adaptor for IRF5 activation by TLR7-9. 	SLC15A4 (PHT1) interaction proteomics	CXorf21, SLC, TAP	Toll-like receptors (TLRs) have a crucial role in the recognition of pathogens and initiation of immune responses(1-3). Here we show that a previously uncharacterized protein encoded by CXorf21-a gene that is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus(4,5)-interacts with the endolysosomal transporter SLC15A4, an essential but poorly understood component of the endolysosomal TLR machinery also linked to autoimmune disease(4,6-9). Loss of this type-I-interferon-inducible protein, which we refer to as 'TLR adaptor interacting with SLC15A4 on the lysosome' (TASL), abrogated responses to endolysosomal TLR agonists in both primary and transformed human immune cells. Deletion of SLC15A4 or TASL specifically impaired the activation of the IRF pathway without affecting NF-kappaB and MAPK signalling, which indicates that ligand recognition and TLR engagement in the endolysosome occurred normally. Extensive mutagenesis of TASL demonstrated that its localization and function relies on the interaction with SLC15A4. TASL contains a conserved pLxIS motif (in which p denotes a hydrophilic residue and x denotes any residue) that mediates the recruitment and activation of IRF5. This finding shows that TASL is an innate immune adaptor for TLR7, TLR8 and TLR9 signalling, revealing a clear mechanistic analogy with the IRF3 adaptors STING, MAVS and TRIF(10,11). The identification of TASL as the component that links endolysosomal TLRs to the IRF5 transcription factor via SLC15A4 provides a mechanistic explanation for the involvement of these proteins in systemic lupus erythematosus(12-14).
PXD018106	32433913	Microtubule Nucleation Properties of Single Human gammaTuRCs Explained by Their Cryo-EM Structure. 	Crosslinking mass spectrometry analysis of TuRC complex	Crosslinking mass spectrometry, integrative structural analysis, TuRC complex	The gamma-tubulin ring complex (gammaTuRC) is the major microtubule nucleator in cells. The mechanism of its regulation is not understood. We purified human gammaTuRC and measured its nucleation properties in a total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy-based real-time nucleation assay. We find that gammaTuRC stably caps the minus ends of microtubules that it nucleates stochastically. Nucleation is inefficient compared with microtubule elongation. The 4 Aa resolution cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of gammaTuRC, combined with crosslinking mass spectrometry analysis, reveals an asymmetric conformation with only part of the complex in a "closed" conformation matching the microtubule geometry. Actin in the core of the complex, and MZT2 at the outer perimeter of the closed part of gammaTuRC appear to stabilize the closed conformation. The opposite side of gammaTuRC is in an "open," nucleation-incompetent conformation, leading to a structural asymmetry explaining the low nucleation efficiency of purified human gammaTuRC. Our data suggest possible regulatory mechanisms for microtubule nucleation by gammaTuRC closure.
PXD010370	32433961	Attenuated Epigenetic Suppression of Muscle Stem Cell Necroptosis Is Required for Efficient Regeneration of Dystrophic Muscles. 	Chd4 controls Ripk3 dependent necroptosis during muscle regeneration	Adenoviral, Chd4/NuRD regulation, Label free LC-MS/MS, Mus musculus, Muscle stem cells (MuSCs), Necroptosis	Somatic stem cells expand massively during tissue regeneration, which might require control of cell fitness, allowing elimination of non-competitive, potentially harmful cells. How or if such cells are removed to restore organ function is not fully understood. Here, we show that a substantial fraction of muscle stem cells (MuSCs) undergo necroptosis because of epigenetic rewiring during chronic skeletal muscle regeneration, which is required for efficient regeneration of dystrophic muscles. Inhibition of necroptosis strongly enhances suppression of MuSC expansion in a non-cell-autonomous manner. Prevention of necroptosis in MuSCs of healthy muscles is mediated by the chromatin remodeler CHD4, which directly represses the necroptotic effector Ripk3, while CHD4-dependent Ripk3 repression is dramatically attenuated in dystrophic muscles. Loss of Ripk3 repression by inactivation of Chd4 causes massive necroptosis of MuSCs, abolishing regeneration. Our study demonstrates how programmed cell death in MuSCs is tightly controlled to achieve optimal tissue regeneration.
PXD018875	32434143	Cdh1-APC Regulates Protein Synthesis and Stress Granules in Neurons through an FMRP-Dependent Mechanism. 	Cdh1 (Fzr1) Interactome in Neuroblastoma (N2A) cells	Cdh1, Fzr1, Protein Synthesis, Ubiquitination	Maintaining a balance between protein degradation and protein synthesis is necessary for neurodevelopment. Although the E3 ubiquitin ligase anaphase promoting complex and its regulatory subunit Cdh1 (Cdh1-APC) has been shown to regulate learning and memory, the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here, we have identified a role of Cdh1-APC as a regulator of protein synthesis in neurons. Proteomic profiling revealed that Cdh1-APC interacts with known regulators of translation, including stress granule proteins. Inhibition of Cdh1-APC activity caused an increase in stress granule formation that is dependent on fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). We propose a model in which Cdh1-APC targets stress granule proteins, such as FMRP, and inhibits the formation of stress granules, leading to protein synthesis. Elucidation of a role for Cdh1-APC in regulation of stress granules and protein synthesis in neurons has implications for how Cdh1-APC can regulate protein-synthesis-dependent synaptic plasticity underlying learning and memory.
PXD016842	32434555	Mass spectrometric analysis of the in vitro secretome from equine bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells to assess the effect of chondrogenic differentiation on response to interleukin-1beta treatment. 	Data in support of Mass spectrometric analysis of the in vitro secretome from equine bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells	Horse, OA, secretome	BACKGROUND: Similar to humans, the horse is a long-lived, athletic species. The use of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) is a relatively new frontier, but has been used with promising results in treating joint diseases, e.g., osteoarthritis. It is believed that MSCs exert their main therapeutic effects through secreted trophic biomolecules. Therefore, it has been increasingly important to characterize the MSC secretome. It has been shown that the effect of the MSCs is strongly influenced by the environment in the host compartment, and it is a crucial issue when considering MSC therapy. The aim of this study was to investigate differences in the in vitro secreted protein profile between naive and chondrogenic differentiating bone marrow-derived (BM)-MSCs when exposed to an inflammatory environment. METHODS: Equine BM-MSCs were divided into a naive group and a chondrogenic group. Cells were treated with normal expansion media or chondrogenic media. Cells were treated with IL-1beta for a period of 5 days (stimulation), followed by 5 days without IL-1beta (recovery). Media were collected after 48 h and 10 days. The secretomes were digested and analyzed by nanoLC-MS/MS to unravel the orchestration of proteins. RESULTS: The inflammatory proteins IL6, CXCL1, CXCL6, CCL7, SEMA7A, SAA, and haptoglobin were identified in the secretome after 48 h from all cells stimulated with IL-1beta. CXCL8, OSM, TGF-beta1, the angiogenic proteins VCAM1, ICAM1, VEGFA, and VEGFC, the proteases MMP1 and MMP3, and the protease inhibitor TIMP3 were among the proteins only identified in the secretome after 48 h from cells cultured in normal expansion media. After 10-day incubation, the proteins CXCL1, CXCL6, and CCL7 were still identified in the secretome from BM-MSCs stimulated with IL-1beta, but the essential inducer of inflammation, IL6, was only identified in the secretome from cells cultured in normal expansion media. CONCLUSION: The findings in this study indicate that naive BM-MSCs have a more extensive inflammatory response at 48 h to stimulation with IL-1beta compared to BM-MSCs undergoing chondrogenic differentiation. This extensive inflammatory response decreased after 5 days without IL-1beta (day 10), but a difference in composition of the secretome between naive and chondrogenic BM-MSCs was still evident.
PXD017158	32440109	Proteome Profiling of Lung Tissues in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD): Platelet and Macrophage Dysfunction Contribute to the Pathogenesis of COPD. 	Proteome profiling of lung tissues in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD): disfunction of platelet and macrophage contribute to pathogenesis of COPD	COPD, macrophage, pathogenesis, platelet	Purpose: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a worldwide public health challenge due to its high prevalence and related disability and mortality; however, the pathogenesis of COPD remains unclear. In this study, we aimed to identify key proteins involved in the pathogenesis of COPD. Patients and Methods: We collected lung tissue from three patients with COPD who required thoracic surgery for lung transplantation in the China-Japan Friendship Hospital. Lung tissue from three donors who had no history of lung disease  was collected as healthy controls through a whole-body donation program of Peking Union Medical College (China). We conducted a proteomic analysis of the protein expression profiles in the two groups using a combination of high-resolution liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and quantitative 6-plex tandem mass tag-labeling; these data were validated by Western blot analysis. Results: A total of 4976 proteins were identified and analyzed, of which 173 were significantly changed (118 downregulated and 55 upregulated). Gene ontology analysis and protein-protein interaction networks demonstrated that the significantly changed proteins, especially downregulated proteins, were involved in platelet and macrophage activation. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org) via the iProX partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD017158. Conclusion: In our study, GP6, PF4, and THBS1, which are associated with platelet activation and wound healing, were significantly downregulated in COPD patients. These results indicate that patients with COPD are more likely to develop hemostasis disorders, which could impede the repair process of the lung tissues. Moreover, downregulation of CD163, MARCO and VSIG4, which are involved in dysfunction of alveolar macrophages in efferocytosis, may inhibit the resolution of inflammation and contribute to the pathogenesis of COPD.
PXD018650	32441512	Extending the Separation Space with Trapped Ion Mobility Spectrometry Improves the Accuracy of Isobaric Tag-Based Quantitation in Proteomic LC/MS/MS. 	Extending the Separation Space with Trapped Ion Mobility Spectrometry Improves the Accuracy of Isobaric Tag-based Quantitation in Proteomic LC/MS/MS	High accuracy quantitation, Ratio compression, Tandem mass tag, Trapped ion mobility spectrometry	Two-dimensional separation by nano-LC and trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS) prior to Q/TOF tandem mass spectrometry significantly improves the accuracy of isobaric tag-based quantitation in proteome analysis without the need for additional measurement time for TIMS insertion between LC and Q/TOF MS. The obtained peak capacity of up to 3300 h(-1) in LC/TIMS reduced the coisolation of precursor ions at the quadrupole analyzer, resulting in more accurate ratios of reporter ions derived from isobaric tags in product ion spectra obtained at the TOF analyzer. We also found that TIMS with a narrower quadrupole isolation window could reduce the ratio compression effect at least as effectively as the synchronous precursor selection method using MS3 scans without compromising sensitivity or coverage. Our results suggest that the 65 min gradient LC/TIMS/Q/TOF system is an excellent platform for high-throughput proteomics studies.
PXD018520	32441514	Carboxypeptidase B-Assisted Charge-Based Fractional Diagonal Chromatography for Deep Screening of C-Terminome. 	Carboxypeptidase B-assisted charge-based fractional diagonal chromatography for deep screening of C-terminome	ChaFRADIC, c-terminomic, caspase, cleavage site	The determination of protein C-termini is of great significance for protein function annotation and proteolysis research. However, the progress of C-terminomics is still far behind its counterpart, N-terminomics, because of the low reactivity of the carboxyl group. Herein, we developed a negative selection strategy, termed carboxypeptidase B-assisted charge-based fractional diagonal chromatography (CPB-ChaFRADIC), to achieve a global C-terminome analysis. The highly reactive carboxypeptidase B cleavage was utilized to reduce the charge state of non-C-terminal peptides. Together with high-performance charge-based fractional diagonal chromatography, the C-terminal peptides could be isolated. Such a strategy was applied for profiling C-termini from Escherichia coli cell lysates and 441 canonical C-termini and 510 neo-C-termini originating from proteolytic processing were identified. These findings represent 2-fold and 5.8-fold that of identified C-termini via direct analysis, respectively. Using parallel digestion with trypsin and LysC, such a strategy enabled the identification of 604 canonical C-termini and 818 neo-C-termini, representing the largest C-terminome data set of E. coli, and no deficiency in His/Lys/Arg-containing C-terminal peptides was observed. The presented CPB-ChaFRADIC strategy is therefore a highly efficient and unbiased strategy for large-scale C-terminome analysis. Furthermore, using the CPB-ChaFRADIC strategy, we identified 107 cleavage sites and 102 substrates of caspase-3 in Jurkat cells, demonstrating that the CPB-ChaFRADIC strategy shows great promise in promoting proteolysis research. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018520.
PXD018445	32442378	Instrument Logic Increases Identifications during Mutliplexed Translatome Measurements. 	Using instrument logic to improve identifications in low stoichiometry SILAC/TMT experiments	Protein dynamics, SILAC, TMT	Pulsed Stable Isotope Labeling in Cell culture (SILAC) approaches allow measurement of protein dynamics, including protein translation and degradation. However, its use for quantifying acute changes has been limited due to low labeled peptide stoichiometry. Here, we describe the use of instrument logic to select peaks of interest via targeted mass differences (TMD) for overcoming this limitation. Comparing peptides artificially mixed at low heavy-to-light stoichiometry measured using standard data dependent acquisition with or without TMD revealed 2-3-fold increases in identification without significant loss in quantification precision for both MS(2) and MS(3) methods. Our benchmarked method approach increased throughput by reducing the necessary machine time. We anticipate that all pulsed SILAC measurements, combined with tandem mass tagging (TMT) or not, would greatly benefit from instrument logic based approaches.
PXD015822	32444469	A Sulfoglycolytic Entner-Doudoroff Pathway in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii SRDI565. 	Rhizobium leguminosarum sulfoquinovose metabolism	LFQ, Rhizobium leguminosarum, sulfoquinovose	Rhizobia are nitrogen-fixing bacteria that engage in symbiotic relationships with plant hosts but can also persist as free-living bacteria in the soil and rhizosphere. Here, we show that free-living Rhizobium leguminosarum SRDI565 can grow on the sulfosugar sulfoquinovose (SQ) or the related glycoside SQ-glycerol using a sulfoglycolytic Entner-Doudoroff (sulfo-ED) pathway, resulting in production of sulfolactate (SL) as the major metabolic end product. Comparative proteomics supports the involvement of a sulfo-ED operon encoding an ABC transporter, sulfo-ED enzymes, and an SL exporter. Consistent with an oligotrophic lifestyle, proteomics data revealed little change in expression of the sulfo-ED proteins during growth on SQ versus mannitol, a result confirmed through biochemical assay of sulfoquinovosidase activity in cell lysates. Metabolomics analysis showed that growth on SQ involves gluconeogenesis to satisfy metabolic requirements for glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate. Metabolomics analysis also revealed the unexpected production of small amounts of sulfofructose and 2,3-dihydroxypropanesulfonate, which are proposed to arise from promiscuous activities of the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglucose isomerase and a nonspecific aldehyde reductase, respectively. The discovery of a rhizobium isolate with the ability to degrade SQ builds our knowledge of how these important symbiotic bacteria persist within soil.IMPORTANCE Sulfonate sulfur is a major form of organic sulfur in soils but requires biomineralization before it can be utilized by plants. Very little is known about the biochemical processes used to mobilize sulfonate sulfur. We show that a rhizobial isolate from soil, Rhizobium leguminosarum SRDI565, possesses the ability to degrade the abundant phototroph-derived carbohydrate sulfonate SQ through a sulfoglycolytic Entner-Doudoroff pathway. Proteomics and metabolomics demonstrated the utilization of this pathway during growth on SQ and provided evidence for gluconeogenesis. Unexpectedly, off-cycle sulfoglycolytic species were also detected, pointing to the complexity of metabolic processes within cells under conditions of sulfoglycolysis. Thus, rhizobial metabolism of the abundant sulfosugar SQ may contribute to persistence of the bacteria in the soil and to mobilization of sulfur in the pedosphere.
PXD014244	32444635	An integrated multi-omics approach identifies the landscape of interferon-alpha-mediated responses of human pancreatic beta cells. 	EndoC-betaH1 cells treated with interferon alpha	beta cell, interferon alpha, type 1 diabetes	Interferon-alpha (IFNalpha), a type I interferon, is expressed in the islets of type 1 diabetic individuals, and its expression and signaling are regulated by T1D genetic risk variants and viral infections associated with T1D. We presently characterize human beta cell responses to IFNalpha by combining ATAC-seq, RNA-seq and proteomics assays. The initial response to IFNalpha is characterized by chromatin remodeling, followed by changes in transcriptional and translational regulation. IFNalpha induces changes in alternative splicing (AS) and first exon usage, increasing the diversity of transcripts expressed by the beta cells. This, combined with changes observed on protein modification/degradation, ER stress and MHC class I, may expand antigens presented by beta cells to the immune system. Beta cells also up-regulate the checkpoint proteins PDL1 and HLA-E that may exert a protective role against the autoimmune assault. Data mining of the present multi-omics analysis identifies two compound classes that antagonize IFNalpha effects on human beta cells.
PXD008893	32444788	Phosphoproteomics identifies dual-site phosphorylation in an extended basophilic motif regulating FILIP1-mediated degradation of filamin-C. 	Filamin C domain 18-21 in vitro kinase assay	Akt, PKB, PKCalpha, filamin C, in vitro kinase assay	The PI3K/Akt pathway promotes skeletal muscle growth and myogenic differentiation. Although its importance in skeletal muscle biology is well documented, many of its substrates remain to be identified. We here studied PI3K/Akt signaling in contracting skeletal muscle cells by quantitative phosphoproteomics. We identified the extended basophilic phosphosite motif RxRxxp[S/T]xxp[S/T] in various proteins including filamin-C (FLNc). Importantly, this extended motif, located in a unique insert in Ig-like domain 20 of FLNc, is doubly phosphorylated. The protein kinases responsible for this dual-site phosphorylation are Akt and PKCalpha. Proximity proteomics and interaction analysis identified filamin A-interacting protein 1 (FILIP1) as direct FLNc binding partner. FILIP1 binding induces filamin degradation, thereby negatively regulating its function. Here, dual-site phosphorylation of FLNc not only reduces FILIP1 binding, providing a mechanism to shield FLNc from FILIP1-mediated degradation, but also enables fast dynamics of FLNc necessary for its function as signaling adaptor in cross-striated muscle cells.
PXD017531	32445620	Human Condensin I and II Drive Extensive ATP-Dependent Compaction of Nucleosome-Bound DNA. 	Interaction mapping of human condensin I and condensin II complexes using DSBU-cross-linking and mass spectrometry	DSBU, Q-Exactive, XL-MS, chromatin, chromosome, condensin, cross-linking, protein complex	Structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) complexes are essential for genome organization from bacteria to humans, but their mechanisms of action remain poorly understood. Here, we characterize human SMC complexes condensin I and II and unveil the architecture of the human condensin II complex, revealing two putative DNA-entrapment sites. Using single-molecule imaging, we demonstrate that both condensin I and II exhibit ATP-dependent motor activity and promote extensive and reversible compaction of double-stranded DNA. Nucleosomes are incorporated into DNA loops during compaction without being displaced from the DNA, indicating that condensin complexes can readily act upon nucleosome-bound DNA molecules. These observations shed light on critical processes involved in genome organization in human cells.
PXD018191	32445698	Metabolic Regulation of the Epigenome Drives Lethal Infantile Ependymoma. 	Metabolic Regulation of the Epigenome Drives Lethal Infantile Ependymoma	H3K27 methylation and acetylation, PFA ependymomas	Posterior fossa A (PFA) ependymomas are lethal malignancies of the hindbrain in infants and toddlers. Lacking highly recurrent somatic mutations, PFA ependymomas are proposed to be epigenetically driven tumors for which model systems are lacking. Here we demonstrate that PFA ependymomas are maintained under hypoxia, associated with restricted availability of specific metabolites to diminish histone methylation, and increase histone demethylation and acetylation at histone 3 lysine 27 (H3K27). PFA ependymomas initiate from a cell lineage in the first trimester of human development that resides in restricted oxygen. Unlike other ependymomas, transient exposure of PFA cells to ambient oxygen induces irreversible cellular toxicity. PFA tumors exhibit a low basal level of H3K27me3, and, paradoxically, inhibition of H3K27 methylation specifically disrupts PFA tumor growth. Targeting metabolism and/or the epigenome presents a unique opportunity for rational therapy for infants with PFA ependymoma.
PXD017080	32445888	Large-Scale Discovery of Non-conventional Peptides in Maize and Arabidopsis through an Integrated Peptidogenomic Pipeline. 	Large-scale discovery of non-canonical peptides in monocot and dicot plants through an integrated peptidogenomic pipeline	plant peptide LC-MS/MS	Non-conventional peptides (NCPs), which include small open reading frame-encoded peptides, play critical roles in fundamental biological processes. In this study, we developed an integrated peptidogenomic pipeline using high-throughput mass spectra to probe a customized six-frame translation database and applied it to large-scale identification of NCPs in plants.A total of 1993 and 1860 NCPs were unambiguously identified in maize and Arabidopsis, respectively. These NCPs showed distinct characteristics compared with conventional peptides and were derived from introns, 3' UTRs, 5' UTRs, junctions, and intergenic regions. Furthermore, our results showed that translation events in unannotated transcripts occur more broadly than previously thought. In addition, we found that dozens of maize NCPs are enriched within regions associated with phenotypic variations and domestication selection, indicating that they potentially are involved in genetic regulation of complex traits and domestication in maize. Taken together, our study developed an integrated peptidogenomic pipeline for large-scale identification of NCPs in plants, which would facilitate global characterization of NCPs from other plants. The identification of large-scale NCPs in both monocot (maize) and dicot (Arabidopsis) plants indicates that a large portion of plant genome can be translated into biologically functional molecules, which has important implications for functional genomic studies.
PXD027432	32447159	Effects of buffer salts on the freeze-drying survival rate of Lactobacillus plantarum LIP-1 based on transcriptome and proteome analyses. 	Effects of Buffer Salts and initail pH on the Freeze-Drying Survival Rate of Lactobacillus plantarum LIP-1 Based on Transcriptome	Cell membrane fatty acids, Freeze-drying survival rate, Initial pH value, Transcriptomics	Buffer salts are often added to culture medium to promote bacterial growth. However, we found that buffer salts can improve the freeze-drying survival rate. In this experiment, the mechanisms for the effects of different buffer salts on the survival rate of freeze-dried strains were examined. The results showed that buffer salts had important effects on the freeze-drying survival rate of L. plantarum LIP-1 that were related to changes in fatty acid composition. Different buffer salts affected the expression of fatty acid metabolic genes. A new gene cluster that regulates fatty acid metabolism and synthesis was discovered. Potassium ions in buffer salts upregulated the trkA gene and lysR-type transcription factor, and then upregulated the expression of fatty acid synthesis-related acc and fab family genes. These genes help to extend the fatty acid carbon chain and promote the unsaturated fatty acids content, which improves cell membrane fluidity and improves resistance to freeze-drying.
PXD018112	32447284	The Aspergillus fumigatus Secretome Alters the Proteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to Stimulate Bacterial Growth: Implications for Co-infection. 	The Aspergillus fumigatus secretome alters the proteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to stimulate bacterial growth: implications for co-infection	Aspergillus fumigatus, LC-MS, culture filtrate, shotgun proteomics	Individuals with cystic fibrosis are susceptible to co-infection by Aspergillus fumigatus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa Despite the persistence of A. fumigatus in the cystic fibrosis lung P. aeruginosa eventually predominates as the primary pathogen. Several factors are likely to facilitate P. aeruginosa colonization in the airways, including alterations to the microbial environment. The cystic fibrosis airways are hypoxic, nitrate-rich environments, and the sputum has higher amino acid concentrations than normal. In this study, significant growth proliferation was observed in P. aeruginosa when the bacteria were exposed to A. fumigatus culture filtrates (CuF) containing a high nitrate content. Proteomic analysis of the A. fumigatus CuF identified a significant number of environment-altering proteases and peptidases. The molecular mechanisms promoting bacterial growth were investigated using label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomics to compare the proteome of P. aeruginosa grown in the A. fumigatus CuF and in CuF produced by a P. aeruginosa-A. fumigatus co-culture, to that cultured in P. aeruginosa CuF. LFQ proteomics revealed distinct changes in the proteome of P. aeruginosa when cultured in the different CuFs, including increases in the levels of proteins involved in denitrification, stress response, replication, amino acid metabolism and efflux pumps, and a down-regulation of pathways involving ABC transporters. These findings offer novel insights into the complex dynamics that exist between P. aeruginosa and A. fumigatus Understanding the molecular strategies that enable P. aeruginosa to predominate in an environment where A. fumigatus exists is important in the context of therapeutic development to target this pathogen.
PXD018565	32449352	Comparative Proteomic Profiling of Unannotated Microproteins and Alternative Proteins in Human Cell Lines. 	Comparative proteomic profiling of unannotated microproteins and alternative proteins in human cell lines	alt-protein, microprotein, proteogenomics, smORF	Ribosome profiling and mass spectrometry have revealed thousands of small and alternative open reading frames (sm/alt-ORFs) that are translated into polypeptides variously termed as microproteins and alt-proteins in mammalian cells. Some micro-/alt-proteins exhibit stress-, cell-type-, and/or tissue-specific expression; understanding this regulated expression will be critical to elucidating their functions. While differential translation has been inferred by ribosome profiling, quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics is needed for direct comparison of microprotein and alt-protein expression between samples and conditions. However, while label-free quantitative proteomics has been applied to detect stress-dependent expression of bacterial microproteins, this approach has not yet been demonstrated for analysis of differential expression of unannotated ORFs in the more complex human proteome. Here, we present global micro-/alt-protein quantitation in two human leukemia cell lines, K562 and MOLT4. We identify 12 unannotated proteins that are differentially expressed in these cell lines. The expression of six micro/alt-proteins from cDNA was validated biochemically, and two were found to localize to the nucleus. Thus, we demonstrate that label-free comparative proteomics enables quantitation of micro-/alt-protein expression between human cell lines. We anticipate that this workflow will enable the discovery of regulated sm/alt-ORF products across many biological conditions in human cells.
PXD018427	32449362	Sensitive, Rapid, Robust, and Reproducible Workflow for Host Cell Protein Profiling in Biopharmaceutical Process Development. 	A Sensitive, Rapid, Robust and Reproducible Workflow for Host Cell Protein Profiling in Biopharmaceutical Process Development	EvosepONE, drug product (DP), drug substance (DS), host cell proteins (HCPs), monoclonal antibody (mAb)	There is a growing industry and regulatory need to detect host cell protein (HCP) impurities in the production of protein biopharmaceuticals, as certain HCPs can impact product stability, safety, and efficacy, even at low levels. In some cases, regulatory agencies require the identification and the quantification of HCPs in drug products (DPs) for risk assessment, and this is an active and growing topic of conversation in the industry and amongst regulators. In this study, we developed a sensitive, robust, and reproducible workflow for HCP detection and quantification in a significantly shorter turnaround time than that previously reported using an Evosep ONE LC system coupled to an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer. Because of its fast turnaround time, this HCP workflow can be integrated into process development for the high-throughput (60 samples analyzed per day) identification of HCPs. The ability to rapidly measure HCPs and follow their clearance throughout the downstream process can be used to pinpoint sources of HCP contamination, which can be used to optimize biopharmaceutical production to minimize HCP levels. Analysis of the NIST monoclonal antibody reference material using the rapid HCP profiling workflow detected the largest number of HCPs reported to date, underscoring an improvement in performance along with an increased throughput. The HCP workflow can be readily implemented and adapted for different purposes to guide biopharmaceutical process development and enable better risk assessment of HCPs in drug substances and DPs.
PXD017391	32449925	Macrophage development and activation involve coordinated intron retention in key inflammatory regulators. 	Macrophage development and activation involve coordinated intron retention in key inflammatory regulators	Macrophage, monocyte	Monocytes and macrophages are essential components of the innate immune system. Herein, we report that intron retention (IR) plays an important role in the development and function of these cells. Using Illumina mRNA sequencing, Nanopore direct cDNA sequencing and proteomics analysis, we identify IR events that affect the expression of key genes/proteins involved in macrophage development and function. We demonstrate that decreased IR in nuclear-detained mRNA is coupled with increased expression of genes encoding regulators of macrophage transcription, phagocytosis and inflammatory signalling, including ID2, IRF7, ENG and LAT. We further show that this dynamic IR program persists during the polarisation of resting macrophages into activated macrophages. In the presence of proinflammatory stimuli, intron-retaining CXCL2 and NFKBIZ transcripts are rapidly spliced, enabling timely expression of these key inflammatory regulators by macrophages. Our study provides novel insights into the molecular factors controlling vital regulators of the innate immune response.
PXD014447	32449937	SERRATE interacts with the nuclear exosome targeting (NEXT) complex to degrade primary miRNA precursors in Arabidopsis. 	SERRATE interacts with the nuclear exosome targeting complex to degrade primary miRNA precursors in Arabidopsis	NEXT, SERRATE, exosome, miRNA biogenesis, pri-miRNAs	SERRATE/ARS2 is a conserved RNA effector protein involved in transcription, processing and export of different types of RNAs. In Arabidopsis, the best-studied function of SERRATE (SE) is to promote miRNA processing. Here, we report that SE interacts with the nuclear exosome targeting (NEXT) complex, comprising the RNA helicase HEN2, the RNA binding protein RBM7 and one of the two zinc-knuckle proteins ZCCHC8A/ZCCHC8B. The identification of common targets of SE and HEN2 by RNA-seq supports the idea that SE cooperates with NEXT for RNA surveillance by the nuclear exosome. Among the RNA targets accumulating in absence of SE or NEXT are miRNA precursors. Loss of NEXT components results in the accumulation of pri-miRNAs without affecting levels of miRNAs, indicating that NEXT is, unlike SE, not required for miRNA processing. As compared to se-2, se-2 hen2-2 double mutants showed increased accumulation of pri-miRNAs, but partially restored levels of mature miRNAs and attenuated developmental defects. We propose that the slow degradation of pri-miRNAs caused by loss of HEN2 compensates for the poor miRNA processing efficiency in se-2 mutants, and that SE regulates miRNA biogenesis through its double contribution in promoting miRNA processing but also pri-miRNA degradation through the recruitment of the NEXT complex.
PXD016060	32451349	Identification of Tumor Antigens in the HLA Peptidome of Patient-derived Xenograft Tumors in Mouse. 	Identification of tumor antigens in the HLA peptidome of patient-derived xenograft tumors in mouse	HLA, patient derived xenograft, peptidome, tumor antigen	Personalized cancer immunotherapy targeting patient-specific cancer/testis antigens (CTA) and neoantigens may benefit from large-scale tumor human leukocyte antigen (HLA) peptidome (immunopeptidome) analysis, which aims to accurately identify antigens presented by tumor cells. Although significant efforts have been invested in analyzing the HLA peptidomes of fresh tumors, it is often impossible to obtain sufficient volumes of tumor tissues for comprehensive HLA peptidome characterization. This work attempted to overcome some of these obstacles by using patient-derived xenograft tumors (PDX) in mice as the tissue sources for HLA peptidome analysis. PDX tumors provide a proxy for the expansion of the patient tumor by re-grafting them through several passages to immune-compromised mice. The HLA peptidomes of human biopsies were compared with those derived from PDX tumors. Larger HLA peptidomes were obtained from the significantly larger PDX tumors as compared with the patient biopsies. The HLA peptidomes of different PDX tumors derived from the same source tumor biopsy were very reproducible, even following subsequent passages to new naive mice. Many CTA-derived HLA peptides were discovered, as well as several potential neoantigens/variant sequences. Taken together, the use of PDX tumors for HLA peptidome analysis serves as a highly expandable and stable source of reproducible and authentic peptidomes, opening up new opportunities for defining large HLA peptidomes when only small tumor biopsies are available. This approach provides a large source for tumor antigens identification, potentially useful for personalized immunotherapy.
PXD015441	32451376	Nucleoporin 153 links nuclear pore complex to chromatin architecture by mediating CTCF and cohesin binding. 	Yildirim 4398 Nup153 Interactome	Nup153 interaction	Nucleoporin proteins (Nups) have been proposed to mediate spatial and temporal chromatin organization during gene regulation. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanisms in mammalian cells are not well understood. Here, we report that Nucleoporin 153 (NUP153) interacts with the chromatin architectural proteins, CTCF and cohesin, and mediates their binding across cis-regulatory elements and TAD boundaries in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. NUP153 depletion results in altered CTCF and cohesin binding and differential gene expression - specifically at the bivalent developmental genes. To investigate the molecular mechanism, we utilize epidermal growth factor (EGF)-inducible immediate early genes (IEGs). We find that NUP153 controls CTCF and cohesin binding at the cis-regulatory elements and POL II pausing during the basal state. Furthermore, efficient IEG transcription relies on NUP153. We propose that NUP153 links the nuclear pore complex (NPC) to chromatin architecture allowing genes that are poised to respond rapidly to developmental cues to be properly modulated.
PXD018621	32451438	The ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UBE2K determines neurogenic potential through histone H3 in human embryonic stem cells. 	Identification of ubiquitination sites of purified histone H3	epigenetics, histone H3, ubiquitination	Histones modulate gene expression by chromatin compaction, regulating numerous processes such as differentiation. However, the mechanisms underlying histone degradation remain elusive. Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have a unique chromatin architecture characterized by low levels of trimethylated histone H3 at lysine 9 (H3K9me3), a heterochromatin-associated modification. Here we assess the link between the intrinsic epigenetic landscape and ubiquitin-proteasome system of hESCs. We find that hESCs exhibit high expression of the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UBE2K. Loss of UBE2K upregulates the trimethyltransferase SETDB1, resulting in H3K9 trimethylation and repression of neurogenic genes during differentiation. Besides H3K9 trimethylation, UBE2K binds histone H3 to induce its polyubiquitination and degradation by the proteasome. Notably, ubc-20, the worm orthologue of UBE2K, also regulates histone H3 levels and H3K9 trimethylation in Caenorhabditis elegans germ cells. Thus, our results indicate that UBE2K crosses evolutionary boundaries to promote histone H3 degradation and reduce H3K9me3 repressive marks in immortal cells.
PXD018253	32451439	ROCK-mediated selective activation of PERK signalling causes fibroblast reprogramming and tumour progression through a CRELD2-dependent mechanism. 	Selective activation of PERK signaling mediates fibroblast education and tumor progression by a CRELD2-dependent mechanism	26 extracellular matrix, Breast cancer, PERK, ROCK, cancer progression, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), endoplasmic reticulum (ER)stress, integrated stress response (ISR), tumor microenvironment, unfolded protein response 25 (UPR)	It is well accepted that cancers co-opt the microenvironment for their growth. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie cancer-microenvironment interactions are still poorly defined. Here, we show that Rho-associated kinase (ROCK) in the mammary tumour epithelium selectively actuates protein-kinase-R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), causing the recruitment and persistent education of tumour-promoting cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which are part of the cancer microenvironment. An analysis of tumours from patients and mice reveals that cysteine-rich with EGF-like domains 2 (CRELD2) is the paracrine factor that underlies PERK-mediated CAF education downstream of ROCK. We find that CRELD2 is regulated by PERK-regulated ATF4, and depleting CRELD2 suppressed tumour progression, demonstrating that the paracrine ROCK-PERK-ATF4-CRELD2 axis promotes the progression of breast cancer, with implications for cancer therapy.
PXD015328	32451471	Verrucomicrobia use hundreds of enzymes to digest the algal polysaccharide fucoidan. 	Lentimonas catalyze the degradation of complex sulfated fucans in the ocean	Lentimonas, sulfated fucans	Brown algae are important players in the global carbon cycle by fixing carbon dioxide into 1 Gt of biomass annually, yet the fate of fucoidan-their major cell wall polysaccharide-remains poorly understood. Microbial degradation of fucoidans is slower than that of other polysaccharides, suggesting that fucoidans are more recalcitrant and may sequester carbon in the ocean. This may be due to the complex, branched and highly sulfated structure of fucoidans, which also varies among species of brown algae. Here, we show that 'Lentimonas' sp. CC4, belonging to the Verrucomicrobia, acquired a remarkably complex machinery for the degradation of six different fucoidans. The strain accumulated 284 putative fucoidanases, including glycoside hydrolases, sulfatases and carbohydrate esterases, which are primarily located on a 0.89-megabase pair plasmid. Proteomics reveals that these enzymes assemble into substrate-specific pathways requiring about 100 enzymes per fucoidan from different species of brown algae. These enzymes depolymerize fucoidan into fucose, which is metabolized in a proteome-costly bacterial microcompartment that spatially constrains the metabolism of the toxic intermediate lactaldehyde. Marine metagenomes and microbial genomes show that Verrucomicrobia including 'Lentimonas' are abundant and highly specialized degraders of fucoidans and other complex polysaccharides. Overall, the complexity of the pathways underscores why fucoidans are probably recalcitrant and more slowly degraded, since only highly specialized organisms can effectively degrade them in the ocean.
PXD018061	32451488	Viral hijacking of the TENT4-ZCCHC14 complex protects viral RNAs via mixed tailing. 	Viral hijacking of the TENT4-ZCCHC14 complex protects viral RNAs via mixed tailing	RNA modification, RNA-Protein Interaction, Viral RNA	TENT4 enzymes generate 'mixed tails' of diverse nucleotides at 3' ends of RNAs via nontemplated nucleotide addition to protect messenger RNAs from deadenylation. Here we discover extensive mixed tailing in transcripts of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), generated via a similar mechanism exploiting the TENT4-ZCCHC14 complex. TAIL-seq on HBV and HCMV RNAs revealed that TENT4A and TENT4B are responsible for mixed tailing and protection of viral poly(A) tails. We find that the HBV post-transcriptional regulatory element (PRE), specifically the CNGGN-type pentaloop, is critical for TENT4-dependent regulation. HCMV uses a similar pentaloop, an interesting example of convergent evolution. This pentaloop is recognized by the sterile alpha motif domain-containing ZCCHC14 protein, which in turn recruits TENT4. Overall, our study reveals the mechanism of action of PRE, which has been widely used to enhance gene expression, and identifies the TENT4-ZCCHC14 complex as a potential target for antiviral therapeutics.
PXD010669	32453752	Comprehensive analysis of the secreted proteome of adult Necator americanus hookworms. 	Necator americanus secretome - In the current project we have carried out the first proteogenomic analysis of a parasitic helminth	Necator americanus, proteins, proteogenomics, secretome, secretory products	The human hookworm Necator americanus infects more than 400 million people worldwide, contributing substantially to the poverty in these regions. Adult stage N. americanus live in the small intestine of the human host where they inject excretory/secretory (ES) products into the mucosa. ES products have been characterized at the proteome level for a number of animal hookworm species, but until now, the difficulty in obtaining sufficient live N. americanus has been an obstacle in characterizing the secretome of this important human pathogen. Herein we describe the ES proteome of N. americanus and utilize this information along with RNA Seq data to conduct the first proteogenomic analysis of a parasitic helminth, significantly improving the available genome and thereby generating a robust description of the parasite secretome. The genome annotation resulted in a revised prediction of 3,425 fewer genes than initially reported, accompanied by a significant increase in the number of exons and introns, total gene length and the percentage of the genome covered by genes. Almost 200 ES proteins were identified by LC-MS/MS with SCP/TAPS proteins, 'hypothetical' proteins and proteases among the most abundant families. These proteins were compared to commonly used model species of human parasitic infections, including Ancylostoma caninum, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis and Heligmosomoides polygyrus. SCP/TAPS proteins are immunogenic in nematode infections, so we expressed four of those identified in this study in recombinant form and showed that they are all recognized to varying degrees by serum antibodies from hookworm-infected subjects from a disease-endemic area of Brazil. Our findings provide valuable information on important families of proteins with both known and unknown functions that could be instrumental in host-parasite interactions, including protein families that might be key for parasite survival in the onslaught of robust immune responses, as well as vaccine and diagnostic targets.
PXD017213	32453760	Urinary proteomics links keratan sulfate degradation and lysosomal enzymes to early type 1 diabetes. 	Urinary proteomics in youths with and without type 1 diabetes	type 1 diabetes, urine	Diabetes is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease worldwide. Our understanding of the early kidney response to chronic hyperglycemia remains incomplete. To address this, we first investigated the urinary proteomes of otherwise healthy youths with and without type 1 diabetes and subsequently examined the enriched pathways that might be dysregulated in early disease using systems biology approaches. This cross-sectional study included two separate cohorts for the discovery (N = 30) and internal validation (N = 30) of differentially excreted proteins. Discovery proteomics was performed on a Q Exactive Plus hybrid quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometer. We then searched the pathDIP, KEGG, and Reactome databases to identify enriched pathways in early diabetes; the Integrated Interactions Database to retrieve protein-protein interaction data; and the PubMed database to compare fold changes of our signature proteins with those published in similarly designed studies. Proteins were selected for internal validation based on pathway enrichment and availability of commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. Of the 2451 proteins identified, 576 were quantified in all samples from the discovery cohort; 34 comprised the urinary signature for early diabetes after Benjamini-Hochberg adjustment (Q < 0.05). The top pathways associated with this signature included lysosome, glycosaminoglycan degradation, and innate immune system (Q < 0.01). Notably, all enzymes involved in keratan sulfate degradation were significantly elevated in urines from youths with diabetes (|fold change| > 1.6). Increased urinary excretion of monocyte differentiation antigen CD14, hexosaminidase A, and lumican was also observed in the validation cohort (P < 0.05). Twenty-one proteins from our signature have been reported elsewhere as potential mediators of early diabetes. In this study, we identified a urinary proteomic signature for early type 1 diabetes, of which lysosomal enzymes were major constituents. Our findings highlight novel pathways such as keratan sulfate degradation in the early kidney response to hyperglycemia.
PXD016193	32454028	Antibody RING-Mediated Destruction of Endogenous Proteins. 	Antibody RING-Mediated Destruction (ARMeD) of endogenous proteins	ARMeD Endogenous Protein Knockdown	To understand gene function, the encoding DNA or mRNA transcript can be manipulated and the consequences observed. However, these approaches do not have a direct effect on the protein product of the gene, which is either permanently abrogated or depleted at a rate defined by the half-life of the protein. We therefore developed a single-component system that could induce the rapid degradation of the specific endogenous protein itself. A construct combining the RING domain of ubiquitin E3 ligase RNF4 with a protein-specific camelid nanobody mediates target destruction by the ubiquitin proteasome system, a process we describe as antibody RING-mediated destruction (ARMeD). The technique is highly specific because we observed no off-target protein destruction. Furthermore, bacterially produced nanobody-RING fusion proteins electroporated into cells induce degradation of target within minutes. With increasing availability of protein-specific nanobodies, this method will allow rapid and specific degradation of a wide range of endogenous proteins.
PXD018297	32456249	Lon Protease Is Important for Growth Under Stressful Conditions and Pathogenicity of the Phytopathogen, Bacterium Dickeya solani. 	Lon protease is important for  growth under stressful conditions and pathogenicity of the phytopathogen, bacterium Dickeya solani.	Dickeya solani, SWATH	The Lon protein is a protease implicated in the virulence of many pathogenic bacteria, including some plant pathogens. However, little is known about the role of Lon in bacteria from genus Dickeya. This group of bacteria includes important potato pathogens, with the most aggressive species, D. solani. To determine the importance of Lon for pathogenicity and response to stress conditions of bacteria, we constructed a D. solani Deltalon strain. The mutant bacteria showed increased sensitivity to certain stress conditions, in particular osmotic and high-temperature stresses. Furthermore, qPCR analysis showed an increased expression of the lon gene in D. solani under these conditions. The deletion of the lon gene resulted in decreased motility, lower activity of secreted pectinolytic enzymes and finally delayed onset of blackleg symptoms in the potato plants. In the Deltalon cells, the altered levels of several proteins, including virulence factors and proteins associated with virulence, were detected by means of Sequential Window Acquisition of All Theoretical Mass Spectra (SWATH-MS) analysis. These included components of the type III secretion system and proteins involved in bacterial motility. Our results indicate that Lon protease is important for D. solani to withstand stressful conditions and effectively invade the potato plant.
PXD017644	32457113	IGF-1 receptor activity in the Golgi of migratory cancer cells depends on adhesion-dependent phosphorylation of Tyr(1250) and Tyr(1251). 	Identification of phosphorylation sites in the IGF-1 Receptor	IGF-1, IGF-1 Receptor, Tyr1131, Tyr1135, Tyr1136, Tyr125051	Although insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling promotes tumor growth and cancer progression, therapies that target the IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) have shown poor clinical efficacy. To address IGF-1R activity in cancer cells and how it differs from that of the closely related insulin receptor (IR), we focused on two tyrosines in the IGF-1R C-terminal tail that are not present in the IR and are essential for IGF-1-mediated cancer cell survival, migration, and tumorigenic growth. We found that Tyr(1250) and Tyr(1251) (Tyr(1250/1251)) were autophosphorylated in a cell adhesion-dependent manner. To investigate the consequences of this phosphorylation, we generated phosphomimetic Y1250E/Y1251E (EE) and nonphosphorylatable Y1250F/Y1251F (FF) mutant forms of IGF-1R. Although fully competent in kinase activity and signaling, the EE mutant was more rapidly internalized and degraded than either the wild-type or FF receptor. IGF-1 promoted the accumulation of wild-type and EE IGF-1R within the Golgi apparatus, whereas the FF mutant remained at the plasma membrane. Golgi-associated IGF-1R signaling was a feature of migratory cancer cells, and Golgi disruption impaired IGF-1-induced signaling and cell migration. Upon the formation of new cell adhesions, IGF-1R transiently relocalized to the plasma membrane from the Golgi. Thus, phosphorylation at Tyr(1250/1251) promoted IGF-1R translocation to and signaling from the Golgi to support an aggressive cancer phenotype. This process distinguishes IGF-1R from IR signaling and could contribute to the poor clinical efficacy of antibodies that target IGF-1R on the cell surface.
PXD017201	32457125	In-depth plasma proteomics reveals increase in circulating PD-1 during anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in patients with metastatic cutaneous melanoma. 	In-depth plasma proteomics in patients with metastatic cutaneous melanoma treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors or MAPK-inhibitors	HiRIEF, MAPK, MAPK-inhibitors, biomarkers, dabrafenib, immune checkpoint inhibitors, ipilimumab, melanoma, metastatic, nivolumab, plasma, programmed cell death protein 1, trametinib, vemurafenib	BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have significantly improved the outcome in metastatic cutaneous melanoma (CM). However, therapy response is limited to subgroups of patients and clinically useful predictive biomarkers are lacking. METHODS: To discover treatment-related systemic changes in plasma and potential biomarkers associated with treatment outcome, we analyzed serial plasma samples from 24 patients with metastatic CM, collected before and during ICI treatment, with mass-spectrometry-based global proteomics (high-resolution isoelectric focusing liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HiRIEF LC-MS/MS)) and targeted proteomics with proximity extension assays (PEAs). In addition, we analyzed plasma proteomes of 24 patients with metastatic CM treated with mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors (MAPKis), to pinpoint changes in protein plasma levels specific to the ICI treatment. To detect plasma proteins associated with treatment response, we performed stratified analyses in anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (anti-PD-1) responders and non-responders. In addition, we analyzed the association between protein plasma levels and progression-free survival (PFS) by Cox proportional hazards models. RESULTS: Unbiased HiRIEF LC-MS/MS-based proteomics showed plasma levels' alterations related to anti-PD-1 treatment in 80 out of 1160 quantified proteins. Circulating PD-1 had the highest increase during anti-PD-1 treatment (log2-FC=2.03, p=0.0008) and in anti-PD-1 responders (log2-FC=2.09, p=0.005), but did not change in the MAPKis cohort. Targeted, antibody-based proteomics by PEA confirmed this observation. Anti-PD-1 responders had an increase in plasma proteins involved in T-cell response, neutrophil degranulation, inflammation, cell adhesion, and immune suppression. Furthermore, we discovered new associations between plasma proteins (eg, interleukin 6, interleukin 10, proline-rich acidic protein 1, desmocollin 3, C-C motif chemokine ligands 2, 3 and 4, vascular endothelial growth factor A) and PFS, which may serve as predictive biomarkers. CONCLUSIONS: We detected an increase in circulating PD-1 during anti-PD-1 treatment, as well as diverse immune plasma proteomic signatures in anti-PD-1 responders. This study demonstrates the potential of plasma proteomics as a liquid biopsy method and in discovery of putative predictive biomarkers for anti-PD-1 treatment in metastatic CM.
PXD016468	32457292	APN-mediated phosphorylation of BCKDK promotes hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis and proliferation via the ERK signaling pathway. 	human liver cancer Phosphoproteomics	human HCC Phosphoproteomics	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent human malignancies worldwide and has high morbidity and mortality. Elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying HCC recurrence and metastasis is critical to identify new therapeutic targets. This study aimed to determine the roles of aminopeptidase N (APN, also known as CD13) in HCC proliferation and metastasis and its underlying mechanisms. We detected APN expression in clinical samples and HCC cell lines using immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, real-time PCR, and enzyme activity assays. The effects of APN on HCC metastasis and proliferation were verified in both in vitro and in vivo models. RNA-seq, phosphoproteomic, western blot, point mutation, co-immunoprecipitation, and proximity ligation assays were performed to reveal the potential mechanisms. We found that APN was frequently upregulated in HCC tumor tissues and high-metastatic cell lines. Knockout of APN inhibited HCC cell metastasis and proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Functional studies suggested that a loss of APN impedes the ERK signaling pathway in HCC cells. Mechanistically, we found that APN might mediate the phosphorylation at serine 31 of BCKDK (BCKDK(S31)), promote BCKDK interacting with ERK1/2 and phosphorylating it, thereby activating the ERK signaling pathway in HCC cells. Collectively, our findings indicate that APN mediates the phosphorylation of BCKDK(S31) and activates its downstream pathway to promote HCC proliferation and metastasis. Therefore, the APN/BCKDK/ERK axis may serve as a new therapeutic target for HCC therapy, and these findings may be helpful to identify new biomarkers in HCC progression.
PXD018724	32457386	Long non-coding RNA LASSIE regulates shear stress sensing and endothelial barrier function. 	Identification of protein interaction partners of the lncRNA Lassie	RNA/protein interaction	Blood vessels are constantly exposed to shear stress, a biomechanical force generated by blood flow. Normal shear stress sensing and barrier function are crucial for vascular homeostasis and are controlled by adherens junctions (AJs). Here we show that AJs are stabilized by the shear stress-induced long non-coding RNA LASSIE (linc00520). Silencing of LASSIE in endothelial cells impairs cell survival, cell-cell contacts and cell alignment in the direction of flow. LASSIE associates with junction proteins (e.g. PECAM-1) and the intermediate filament protein nestin, as identified by RNA affinity purification. The AJs component VE-cadherin showed decreased stabilization, due to reduced interaction with nestin and the microtubule cytoskeleton in the absence of LASSIE. This study identifies LASSIE as link between nestin and VE-cadherin, and describes nestin as crucial component in the endothelial response to shear stress. Furthermore, this study indicates that LASSIE regulates barrier function by connecting AJs to the cytoskeleton.
PXD016502	32457501	A novel bacterial thiosulfate oxidation pathway provides a new clue about the formation of zero-valent sulfur in deep sea. 	Thiosulfate oxidation in Erythrobacter flavus 21-3 provides novel clues to the source of element sulfur in the deep-sea cold seep	Erythrobacter, Zero-valent sulfur (ZVS), bacteria, cold seep, thiosulfate	Zero-valent sulfur (ZVS) has been shown to be a major sulfur intermediate in the deep-sea cold seep of the South China Sea based on our previous work, however, the microbial contribution to the formation of ZVS in cold seep has remained unclear. Here, we describe a novel thiosulfate oxidation pathway discovered in the deep-sea cold seep bacterium Erythrobacter flavus 21-3, which provides a new clue about the formation of ZVS. Electronic microscopy, energy-dispersive, and Raman spectra were used to confirm that E. flavus 21-3 effectively converts thiosulfate to ZVS. We next used a combined proteomic and genetic method to identify thiosulfate dehydrogenase (TsdA) and thiosulfohydrolase (SoxB) playing key roles in the conversion of thiosulfate to ZVS. Stoichiometric results of different sulfur intermediates further clarify the function of TsdA in converting thiosulfate to tetrathionate ((-)O3S-S-S-SO3(-)), SoxB in liberating sulfone from tetrathionate to form ZVS and sulfur dioxygenases (SdoA/SdoB) in oxidizing ZVS to sulfite under some conditions. Notably, homologs of TsdA, SoxB, and SdoA/SdoB widely exist across the bacteria including in Erythrobacter species derived from different environments. This strongly indicates that this novel thiosulfate oxidation pathway might be frequently used by microbes and plays an important role in the biogeochemical sulfur cycle in nature.
PXD014153	32457714	Metabolic Insights Into Infochemicals Induced Colony Formation and Flocculation in Scenedesmus subspicatus Unraveled by Quantitative Proteomics. 	The mechanism of infochemicals induced colony formation and flocculation in the microalga Scenedesmus subspicatus	Daphnia infochemicals, Scenedesmus, colony formation iTRAQ proteomics, flocculation, induced defences, predation	Microalgae can respond to natural cues from crustacean grazers, such as Daphnia, by forming colonies and aggregations called flocs. Combining microalgal biology, physiological ecology, and quantitative proteomics, we identified how infochemicals from Daphnia trigger physiological and cellular level changes in the microalga Scenedesmus subspicatus, underpinning colony formation and flocculation. We discovered that flocculation occurs at an energy-demanding 'alarm' phase, with an important role proposed in cysteine synthesis. Flocculation appeared to be initially stimulated by the production of an extracellular matrix where polysaccharides and fatty acids were present, and later sustained at an 'acclimation' stage through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascades. Colony formation required investment into fatty acid metabolism, likely linked to separation of membranes during cell division. Higher energy demands were required at the alarm phase, which subsequently decreased at the acclimation stage, thus suggesting a trade-off between colony formation and flocculation. From an ecological and evolutionary perspective, our findings represent an improved understanding of the effect of infochemicals on microalgae-grazers interactions, and how they can therefore potentially impact on the structure of aquatic communities. Moreover, the mechanisms revealed are of interest in algal biotechnology, for exploitation in low-cost, sustainable microalgal biomass harvesting.
PXD018219	32459472	Intermolecular and Intramolecular Interactions of the Arabidopsis Plasma Membrane Proton Pump Revealed Using a Mass Spectrometry Cleavable Cross-Linker. 	Inter- and Intra-Molecular Interactions of The Arabidopsis Plasma Membrane Proton Pump Revealed Using a Mass Spectrometric-Cleavable Crosslinker	DSSO, crosslinking, metabolic labeling, plasma membrane protein pump	In plants and fungi, the plasma membrane proton pump (H(+)-ATPase) establishes an electrochemical gradient across the plasma membrane, which serves as the driving force for the secondary transport of ions and nutrients across the cell membrane. This is an essential enzyme that functions in many important processes including stomatal movement, cell elongation, and cellular responses to stimuli from hormones, light, and other environmental conditions. Therefore, understanding how the activity of the H(+)-ATPase is regulated is important to understand how plants adapt to different growth conditions. The autoinhibitory effect of the C-terminal regulatory domain of H(+)-ATPase is well-established and is thought to be mediated by interactions with the catalytic domains. Here, using the lysine reactive mass spectrometry cleavable cross-linker DSSO, we found that the C-terminal domain of the Arabidopsis H(+)-ATPase 2 (AHA2) cross-linked extensively with the actuator, nucleotide-binding, and phosphorylation domains, suggesting that the C-terminal domain regulates the catalytic cycle by modulating the relative positions of these domains. Interestingly, several C-terminal cross-links occurred near a predicted proton binding site (Asp-684 in TM6), suggesting that the C-terminal domain may regulate proton efflux. Additionally, cross-links between the C-terminal domain and other domains of AHA2 were detected in a monomeric protein resolved on SDS-PAGE, suggesting that intramolecular interactions may also be involved in the regulation of enzyme activity. Finally, we observed mixed-isotope cross-linking between the C-terminal domain and other domains of (14)N-AHA2 (unlabeled) and (15)N-AHA2 (labeled), supporting our model that oligomeric H(+)-ATPase may autoinhibit the neighboring monomer in a "head-to-tail" configuration.
PXD019272	32459862	Itch attenuates CD4 T-cell proliferation in mice by limiting WBP2 protein stability. 	Itch attenuates CD4 T cell proliferation in mice by limiting WBP2 protein stability	E3 ubiquitin ligase, autoinflammation, cell cycle, proliferation	To mount an antipathogen response, CD4 T cells must undergo rapid cell proliferation; however, poorly controlled expansion can result in diseases such as autoimmunity. One important regulator of T-cell activity is the E3 ubiquitin ligase Itch. Itch deficient patients suffer from extensive autoinflammation. Similarly, Itch deficient mice exhibit inflammation characterized by high numbers of activated CD4 T cells. While the role of Itch in limiting CD4 T-cell cytokine production has been extensively studied, it is less clear whether and how Itch regulates proliferation of these cells. We determined that Itch deficient CD4 T cells are hyperproliferative in vitro and in vivo, due to increased S phase entry. Whole cell proteomics analysis of Itch deficient primary mouse CD4 T cells revealed increased abundance of the beta-catenin coactivator WW domain-binding protein 2 (WBP2). Furthermore, Itch deficient cells demonstrate increased WBP2 protein stability, and Itch and WBP2 interact in CD4 T cells. Knockdown of WBP2 in CD4 T cells caused reduced proliferation. Together, our data support that Itch attenuates CD4 T cell proliferation by promoting WBP2 degradation. This study identifies novel roles for Itch and WBP2 in regulating CD4 T cell proliferation, providing insight into how Itch may prevent inflammation.
PXD017541	32460013	MKRN2 Physically Interacts with GLE1 to Regulate mRNA Export and Zebrafish Retinal Development. 	Human RNA-binding protein E3 ubiquitin ligase AP-MS	AP-MS, E3-RBP	The mammalian mRNA nuclear export process is thought to terminate at the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex through ribonucleoprotein remodeling. We conduct a stringent affinity-purification mass-spectrometry-based screen of the physical interactions of human RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligases. The resulting protein-interaction network reveals interactions between the RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin ligase MKRN2 and GLE1, a DEAD-box helicase activator implicated in mRNA export termination. We assess MKRN2 epistasis with GLE1 in a zebrafish model. Morpholino-mediated knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9-based knockout of MKRN2 partially rescue retinal developmental defects seen upon GLE1 depletion, consistent with a functional association between GLE1 and MKRN2. Using ribonomic approaches, we show that MKRN2 binds selectively to the 3' UTR of a diverse subset of mRNAs and that nuclear export of MKRN2-associated mRNAs is enhanced upon knockdown of MKRN2. Taken together, we suggest that MKRN2 interacts with GLE1 to selectively regulate mRNA nuclear export and retinal development.
PXD013327	32460858	Quantitative proteomic analysis of Rett iPSC-derived neuronal progenitors. 	Quantitative proteomic alterations of human iPSC-based neuronal development indicate early onset of Rett syndrome.	Rett syndrome, TMT-10plex, iPSC, neuron differentiation, quantitative mass spectrometry	BACKGROUND: Rett syndrome (RTT) is a progressive neurodevelopmental disease that is characterized by abnormalities in cognitive, social, and motor skills. RTT is often caused by mutations in the X-linked gene encoding methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2). The mechanism by which impaired MeCP2 induces the pathological abnormalities in the brain is not understood. Both patients and mouse models have shown abnormalities at molecular and cellular level before typical RTT-associated symptoms appear. This implies that underlying mechanisms are already affected during neurodevelopmental stages. METHODS: To understand the molecular mechanisms involved in disease onset, we used an RTT patient induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-based model with isogenic controls and performed time-series of proteomic analysis using in-depth high-resolution quantitative mass spectrometry during early stages of neuronal development. RESULTS: We provide mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic data, depth of about 7000 proteins, at neuronal progenitor developmental stages of RTT patient cells and isogenic controls. Our data gives evidence of proteomic alteration at early neurodevelopmental stages, suggesting alterations long before the phase that symptoms of RTT syndrome become apparent. Significant changes are associated with the GO enrichment analysis in biological processes cell-cell adhesion, actin cytoskeleton organization, neuronal stem cell population maintenance, and pituitary gland development, next to protein changes previously associated with RTT, i.e., dendrite morphology and synaptic deficits. Differential expression increased from early to late neural stem cell phases, although proteins involved in immunity, metabolic processes, and calcium signaling were affected throughout all stages analyzed. LIMITATIONS: The limitation of our study is the number of RTT patients analyzed. As the aim of our study was to investigate a large number of proteins, only one patient was considered, of which 3 different RTT iPSC clones and 3 isogenic control iPSC clones were included. Even though this approach allowed the study of mutation-induced alterations due to the usage of isogenic controls, results should be validated on different RTT patients to suggest common disease mechanisms. CONCLUSIONS: During early neuronal differentiation, there are consistent and time-point specific proteomic alterations in RTT patient cells carrying exons 3-4 deletion in MECP2. We found changes in proteins involved in pathway associated with RTT phenotypes, including dendrite morphology and synaptogenesis. Our results provide a valuable resource of proteins and pathways for follow-up studies, investigating common mechanisms involved during early disease stages of RTT syndrome.
PXD016435	32461183	Affimers as an alternative to antibodies for protein biomarker enrichment. 	Shotgun proteomics analysis of protein purifications from human plasma using antibodies and affimers	affimer, antibody, protein purification	INTRODUCTION: Assessing the specificity of protein binders is an essential first step in protein biomarker assay development. Affimers are novel protein binders and can potentially replace antibodies in multiple protein capture-based assays. Affimers are selected for their high specificity against the target protein and have benefits over antibodies like batch-to-batch reproducibility and are stable across a wide range of chemical conditions. Here we mimicked a typical initial screening of affimers and commercially available monoclonal antibodies against two non-related proteins, IL-37b and proinsulin, to assess the potential of affimers as alternative to antibodies. METHODS: Binding specificity of anti-IL-37b and anti-proinsulin affimers and antibodies was investigated via magnetic bead-based capture of their recombinant protein targets in human plasma. Captured proteins were analyzed using SDS-PAGE, Coomassie blue staining, Western blotting and LC-MS/MS-based proteomics. RESULTS: All affimers and antibodies were able to bind their target protein in human plasma. Gel and LC-MS/MS analysis showed that both affimer and antibody-based captures resulted in co-purified background proteins. However, affimer-based captures showed the highest relative enrichment of IL-37b and proinsulin. CONCLUSIONS: For both proteins tested, affimers show higher specificity in purifying their target proteins from human plasma compared to monoclonal antibodies. These results indicate that affimers are promising antibody-replacement tools for protein biomarker assay development.
PXD017055	32461223	Quantitative analysis of Y-Chromosome gene expression across 36 human tissues. 	Non-coding divergence of the human X and Y chromosomes drove  male-biased expression of dosage-sensitive regulators	Orbitrap Lumos, Tandem mass tags	Little is known about how human Y-Chromosome gene expression directly contributes to differences between XX (female) and XY (male) individuals in nonreproductive tissues. Here, we analyzed quantitative profiles of Y-Chromosome gene expression across 36 human tissues from hundreds of individuals. Although it is often said that Y-Chromosome genes are lowly expressed outside the testis, we report many instances of elevated Y-Chromosome gene expression in a nonreproductive tissue. A notable example is EIF1AY, which encodes eukaryotic translation initiation factor 1A Y-linked, together with its X-linked homolog EIF1AX Evolutionary loss of a Y-linked microRNA target site enabled up-regulation of EIF1AY, but not of EIF1AX, in the heart. Consequently, this essential translation initiation factor is nearly twice as abundant in male as in female heart tissue at the protein level. Divergence between the X and Y Chromosomes in regulatory sequence can therefore lead to tissue-specific Y-Chromosome-driven sex biases in expression of critical, dosage-sensitive regulatory genes.
PXD018859	32461253	Acyltransferase-mediated selection of the length of the fatty acyl chain and of the acylation site governs activation of bacterial RTX toxins. 	Selection of the length of fatty acyl chain and of the acylation site by the acyltransferase governs activation of RTX toxins	RTX toxin, acylation, acyltransferase, cytotoxicity, fatty acyl	In a wide range of organisms, from bacteria to humans, numerous proteins have to be posttranslationally acylated to become biologically active. Bacterial repeats in toxin (RTX) cytolysins form a prominent group of proteins that are synthesized as inactive protoxins and undergo posttranslational acylation on epsilon-amino groups of two internal conserved lysine residues by co-expressed toxin-activating acyltransferases. Here, we investigated how the chemical nature, position, and number of bound acyl chains govern the activities of Bordetella pertussis adenylate cyclase toxin (CyaA), Escherichia coli alpha-hemolysin (HlyA), and Kingella kingae cytotoxin (RtxA). We found that the three protoxins are acylated in the same E. coli cell background by each of the CyaC, HlyC, and RtxC acyltransferases. We also noted that the acyltransferase selects from the bacterial pool of acyl-acyl carrier proteins (ACPs) an acyl chain of a specific length for covalent linkage to the protoxin. The acyltransferase also selects whether both or only one of two conserved lysine residues of the protoxin will be posttranslationally acylated. Functional assays revealed that RtxA has to be modified by 14-carbon fatty acyl chains to be biologically active, that HlyA remains active also when modified by 16-carbon acyl chains, and that CyaA is activated exclusively by 16-carbon acyl chains. These results suggest that the RTX toxin molecules are structurally adapted to the length of the acyl chains used for modification of their acylated lysine residue in the second, more conserved acylation site.
PXD017767	32461302	NAA50 Is an Enzymatically Active N (alpha)-Acetyltransferase That Is Crucial for Development and Regulation of Stress Responses. 	Global acetylation profiling for the Arabidopsis thaliana the N-acetyltransferase NAA50 in the NatA complex.	GAP test, N-acetylome, N-terminal acetylation, SILProNAQ, acetyltransferase, eNCOUNTer, quantitative proteomics	N(alpha)-terminal acetylation (NTA) is a prevalent protein modification in eukaryotes. In plants, the biological function of NTA remains enigmatic. The dominant N-acetyltransferase (Nat) in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) is NatA, which cotranslationally catalyzes acetylation of ~40% of the proteome. The core NatA complex consists of the catalytic subunit NAA10 and the ribosome-anchoring subunit NAA15. In human (Homo sapiens), fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster), and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), this core NatA complex interacts with NAA50 to form the NatE complex. While in metazoa, NAA50 has N-acetyltransferase activity, yeast NAA50 is catalytically inactive and positions NatA at the ribosome tunnel exit. Here, we report the identification and characterization of Arabidopsis NAA50 (AT5G11340). Consistent with its putative function as a cotranslationally acting Nat, AtNAA50-EYFP localized to the cytosol and the endoplasmic reticulum but also to the nuclei. We demonstrate that purified AtNAA50 displays N(alpha)-terminal acetyltransferase and lysine-epsilon-autoacetyltransferase activity in vitro. Global N-acetylome profiling of Escherichia coli cells expressing AtNAA50 revealed conservation of NatE substrate specificity between plants and humans. Unlike the embryo-lethal phenotype caused by the absence of AtNAA10 and AtNAA15, loss of NAA50 expression resulted in severe growth retardation and infertility in two Arabidopsis transfer DNA insertion lines (naa50-1 and naa50-2). The phenotype of naa50-2 was rescued by the expression of HsNAA50 or AtNAA50. In contrast, the inactive ScNAA50 failed to complement naa50-2 Remarkably, loss of NAA50 expression did not affect NTA of known NatA substrates and caused the accumulation of proteins involved in stress responses. Overall, our results emphasize a relevant role of AtNAA50 in plant defense and development, which is independent of the essential NatA activity.
PXD012970	32461304	Targeting RET Kinase in Neuroendocrine Prostate Cancer. 	RET Kinase Inhibition in Neuroendocrine Prostate Cancer, part 1	RET, kinase, phosphoproteomics, prostate cancer	The increased treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) with second-generation antiandrogen therapies (ADT) has coincided with a greater incidence of lethal, aggressive variant prostate cancer (AVPC) tumors that have lost dependence on androgen receptor (AR) signaling. These AR-independent tumors may also transdifferentiate to express neuroendocrine lineage markers and are termed neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC). Recent evidence suggests kinase signaling may be an important driver of NEPC. To identify targetable kinases in NEPC, we performed global phosphoproteomics comparing several AR-independent to AR-dependent prostate cancer cell lines and identified multiple altered signaling pathways, including enrichment of RET kinase activity in the AR-independent cell lines. Clinical NEPC patient samples and NEPC patient-derived xenografts displayed upregulated RET transcript and RET pathway activity. Genetic knockdown or pharmacologic inhibition of RET kinase in multiple mouse and human models of NEPC dramatically reduced tumor growth and decreased cell viability. Our results suggest that targeting RET in NEPC tumors with high RET expression could be an effective treatment option. Currently, there are limited treatment options for patients with aggressive neuroendocrine prostate cancer and none are curative. IMPLICATIONS: Identification of aberrantly expressed RET kinase as a driver of tumor growth in multiple models of NEPC provides a significant rationale for testing the clinical application of RET inhibitors in patients with AVPC.
PXD016778	32461364	Semisynthesis of an evasin from tick saliva reveals a critical role of tyrosine sulfation for chemokine binding and inhibition. 	Semi-Synthesis of an Evasin from Tick Saliva Reveals a Critical Role of Tyrosine Sulfation for Chemokine Binding and Inhibition	Chemokine, Evasin, Sulfation, Synthetic	Blood-feeding arthropods produce antiinflammatory salivary proteins called evasins that function through inhibition of chemokine-receptor signaling in the host. Herein, we show that the evasin ACA-01 from the Amblyomma cajennense tick can be posttranslationally sulfated at two tyrosine residues, albeit as a mixture of sulfated variants. Homogenously sulfated variants of the proteins were efficiently assembled via a semisynthetic native chemical ligation strategy. Sulfation significantly improved the binding affinity of ACA-01 for a range of proinflammatory chemokines and enhanced the ability of ACA-01 to inhibit chemokine signaling through cognate receptors. Comparisons of evasin sequences and structural data suggest that tyrosine sulfation serves as a receptor mimetic strategy for recognizing and suppressing the proinflammatory activity of a wide variety of mammalian chemokines. As such, the incorporation of this posttranslational modification (PTM) or mimics thereof into evasins may provide a strategy to optimize tick salivary proteins for antiinflammatory applications.
PXD015609	32461552	hnRNP H/F drive RNA G-quadruplex-mediated translation linked to genomic instability and therapy resistance in glioblastoma. 	hnRNP 1 H/F drive RNA G-quadruplex-mediated translation linked to genomic instability and therapy resistance in glioblastoma	AP-MS, G-quadruplex RNA-protein interactions, Orbitrap Fusion, human glioblastoma	RNA G-quadruplexes (RG4s) are four-stranded structures known to control mRNA translation of cancer relevant genes. RG4 formation is pervasive in vitro but not in cellulo, indicating the existence of poorly characterized molecular machinery that remodels RG4s and maintains them unfolded. Here, we performed a quantitative proteomic screen to identify cytosolic proteins that interact with a canonical RG4 in its folded and unfolded conformation. Our results identified hnRNP H/F as important components of the cytoplasmic machinery modulating the structural integrity of RG4s, revealed their function in RG4-mediated translation and uncovered the underlying molecular mechanism impacting the cellular stress response linked to the outcome of glioblastoma.
PXD010425	32461585	High-throughput transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of mesenchymal-amoeboid transition in 3D collagen. 	Proteomic profiling of HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells of mesenchymal or amoeboid migratory phenotype	amoeboid, cell migration, fibrosarcoma	The plasticity of cancer cell invasion represents substantial hindrance for effective anti-metastatic therapy. To better understand the cancer cells' plasticity, we performed complex transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells undergoing mesenchymal-amoeboid transition (MAT). As amoeboid migratory phenotype can fully manifest only in 3D conditions, all experiments were performed with 3D collagen-based cultures. Two previously described approaches to induce MAT were used: doxycycline-inducible constitutively active RhoA expression and dasatinib treatment. RNA sequencing was performed with ribo-depleted total RNA. Protein samples were analysed with tandem mass tag (TMT)-based mass spectrometry. The data provide unprecedented insight into transcriptome and proteome changes accompanying MAT in true 3D conditions.
PXD018434	32461689	Structures of alpha-synuclein filaments from multiple system atrophy. 	Post-translational modifications of MSA alpha-synuclein	alpha-synuclein, post-translational modification	Synucleinopathies, which include multiple system atrophy (MSA), Parkinson's disease, Parkinson's disease with dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), are human neurodegenerative diseases(1). Existing treatments are at best symptomatic. These diseases are characterized by the presence of, and believed to be caused by the formation of, filamentous inclusions of alpha-synuclein in brain cells(2,3). However, the structures of alpha-synuclein filaments from the human brain are unknown. Here, using cryo-electron microscopy, we show that alpha-synuclein inclusions from the brains of individuals with MSA are made of two types of filament, each of which consists of two different protofilaments. In each type of filament, non-proteinaceous molecules are present at the interface of the two protofilaments. Using two-dimensional class averaging, we show that alpha-synuclein filaments from the brains of individuals with MSA differ from those of individuals with DLB, which suggests that distinct conformers or strains characterize specific synucleinopathies. As is the case with tau assemblies(4-9), the structures of alpha-synuclein filaments extracted from the brains of individuals with MSA differ from those formed in vitro using recombinant proteins, which has implications for understanding the mechanisms of aggregate propagation and neurodegeneration in the human brain. These findings have diagnostic and potential therapeutic relevance, especially because of the unmet clinical need to be able to image filamentous alpha-synuclein inclusions in the human brain.
PXD017191	32461690	Ensuring meiotic DNA break formation in the mouse pseudoautosomal region. 	ANKRD31 protein interactions  .		Sex chromosomes in males of most eutherian mammals share only a small homologous segment, the pseudoautosomal region (PAR), in which the formation of double-strand breaks (DSBs), pairing and crossing over must occur for correct meiotic segregation(1,2). How cells ensure that recombination occurs in the PAR is unknown. Here we present a dynamic ultrastructure of the PAR and identify controlling cis- and trans-acting factors that make the PAR the hottest segment for DSB formation in the male mouse genome. Before break formation, multiple DSB-promoting factors hyperaccumulate in the PAR, its chromosome axes elongate and the sister chromatids separate. These processes are linked to heterochromatic mo-2 minisatellite arrays, and require MEI4 and ANKRD31 proteins but not the axis components REC8 or HORMAD1. We propose that the repetitive DNA sequence of the PAR confers unique chromatin and higher-order structures that are crucial for recombination. Chromosome synapsis triggers collapse of the elongated PAR structure and, notably, oocytes can be reprogrammed to exhibit spermatocyte-like levels of DSBs in the PAR simply by delaying or preventing synapsis. Thus, the sexually dimorphic behaviour of the PAR is in part a result of kinetic differences between the sexes in a race between the maturation of the PAR structure, formation of DSBs and completion of pairing and synapsis. Our findings establish a mechanistic paradigm for the recombination of sex chromosomes during meiosis.
PXD018804	32462744	Shortlisting SARS-CoV-2 Peptides for Targeted Studies from Experimental Data-Dependent Acquisition Tandem Mass Spectrometry Data. 	Extensive proteomic dataset of Vero E6 cells infected by Italy-INMI1 SARS-CoV-2 virus at Day 4 post-infection	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, coronavirus, detection, host response, kinetics, severe acute respiratory syndrome, viral particle, virus	Detection of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a crucial tool for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. This dataset brief presents the exploration of a shotgun proteomics dataset acquired on SARS-CoV-2 infected Vero cells. Proteins from inactivated virus samples were extracted, digested with trypsin, and the resulting peptides were identified by data-dependent acquisition tandem mass spectrometry. The 101 peptides reporting for six viral proteins were specifically analyzed in terms of their analytical characteristics, species specificity and conservation, and their proneness to structural modifications. Based on these results, a shortlist of 14 peptides from the N, S, and M main structural proteins that could be used for targeted mass-spectrometry method development and diagnostic of the new SARS-CoV-2 is proposed and the best candidates are commented.
PXD017324	32463229	PINE: An Automation Tool to Extract and Visualize Protein-Centric Functional Networks. 	PINE: An Automation Tool to Extract & Visualize Functionally Enriched Networks from Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics Datasets	automated bioinformatics tool, data visualization, enriched networks, post-translational modifications	Recent surges in mass spectrometry-based proteomics studies demand a concurrent rise in speedy and optimized data processing tools and pipelines. Although several stand-alone bioinformatics tools exist that provide protein-protein interaction (PPI) data, we developed Protein Interaction Network Extractor (PINE) as a fully automated, user-friendly, graphical user interface application for visualization and exploration of global proteome and post-translational modification (PTM) based networks. PINE also supports overlaying differential expression, statistical significance thresholds, and PTM sites on functionally enriched visualization networks to gain insights into proteome-wide regulatory mechanisms and PTM-mediated networks. To illustrate the relevance of the tool, we explore the total proteome and its PTM-associated relationships in two different nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) mouse models to demonstrate different context-specific case studies. The strength of this tool relies in its ability to (1) perform accurate protein identifier mapping to resolve ambiguity, (2) retrieve interaction data from multiple publicly available PPI databases, and (3) assimilate these complex networks into functionally enriched pathways, ontology categories, and terms. Ultimately, PINE can be used as an extremely powerful tool for novel hypothesis generation to understand underlying disease mechanisms.
PXD017944	32463804	Scleraxis is required for the growth of adult tendons in response to mechanical loading. 	Proteomic analysis of scleraxis mutant tendon	Scleraxis, Tendon	Scleraxis is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor that plays a central role in promoting tenocyte proliferation and matrix synthesis during embryonic tendon development. However, the role of scleraxis in the growth and adaptation of adult tendons is not known. We hypothesized that scleraxis is required for tendon growth in response to mechanical loading and that scleraxis promotes the specification of progenitor cells into tenocytes. We conditionally deleted scleraxis in adult mice using a tamoxifen-inducible Cre-recombinase expressed from the Rosa26 locus (ScxDelta) and then induced tendon growth in Scx+ and ScxDelta adult mice via plantaris tendon mechanical overload. Compared with the WT Scx+ group, ScxDelta mice demonstrated blunted tendon growth. Transcriptional and proteomic analyses revealed significant reductions in cell proliferation, protein synthesis, and extracellular matrix genes and proteins. Our results indicate that scleraxis is required for mechanically stimulated adult tendon growth by causing the commitment of CD146+ pericytes into the tenogenic lineage and by promoting the initial expansion of newly committed tenocytes and the production of extracellular matrix proteins.
PXD018911	32463832	The domesticated transposase ALP2 mediates formation of a novel Polycomb protein complex by direct interaction with MSI1, a core subunit of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2). 	The domesticated transposase ALP2 mediates formation of a novel Polycomb protein complex by direct interaction with MSI1, a core subunit of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2)	Alp1, Alp2, Arabidospsis thaliana, Harbinger transposable elements, Polycomb repressive complex 2	A large fraction of plant genomes is composed of transposable elements (TE), which provide a potential source of novel genes through "domestication"-the process whereby the proteins encoded by TE diverge in sequence, lose their ability to catalyse transposition and instead acquire novel functions for their hosts. In Arabidopsis, ANTAGONIST OF LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN 1 (ALP1) arose by domestication of the nuclease component of Harbinger class TE and acquired a new function as a component of POLYCOMB REPRESSIVE COMPLEX 2 (PRC2), a histone H3K27me3 methyltransferase involved in regulation of host genes and in some cases TE. It was not clear how ALP1 associated with PRC2, nor what the functional consequence was. Here, we identify ALP2 genetically as a suppressor of Polycomb-group (PcG) mutant phenotypes and show that it arose from the second, DNA binding component of Harbinger transposases. Molecular analysis of PcG compromised backgrounds reveals that ALP genes oppose silencing and H3K27me3 deposition at key PcG target genes. Proteomic analysis reveals that ALP1 and ALP2 are components of a variant PRC2 complex that contains the four core components but lacks plant-specific accessory components such as the H3K27me3 reader LIKE HETEROCHROMATION PROTEIN 1 (LHP1). We show that the N-terminus of ALP2 interacts directly with ALP1, whereas the C-terminus of ALP2 interacts with MULTICOPY SUPPRESSOR OF IRA1 (MSI1), a core component of PRC2. Proteomic analysis reveals that in alp2 mutant backgrounds ALP1 protein no longer associates with PRC2, consistent with a role for ALP2 in recruitment of ALP1. We suggest that the propensity of Harbinger TE to insert in gene-rich regions of the genome, together with the modular two component nature of their transposases, has predisposed them for domestication and incorporation into chromatin modifying complexes.
PXD018226	32466393	Determination of a Tumor-Promoting Microenvironment in Recurrent Medulloblastoma: A Multi-Omics Study of Cerebrospinal Fluid. 	Determination of a tumor-promoting microenvironment in recurrent medulloblastoma: a multi-omics study of cerebrospinal fluid	12, 13-DiHOME, cerebrospinal fluid, eicosanoids, high performance liquid chromatography, hypoxia, lipidomics, medulloblastoma, metabolomics, multi-omics, polarized macrophages	Molecular classification of medulloblastoma (MB) is well-established and reflects the cell origin and biological properties of tumor cells. However, limited data is available regarding the MB tumor microenvironment. Here, we present a mass spectrometry-based multi-omics pilot study of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from recurrent MB patients. A group of age-matched patients without a neoplastic disease was used as control cohort. Proteome profiling identified characteristic tumor markers, including FSTL5, ART3, and FMOD, and revealed a strong prevalence of anti-inflammatory and tumor-promoting proteins characteristic for alternatively polarized myeloid cells in MB samples. The up-regulation of ADAMTS1, GAP43 and GPR37 indicated hypoxic conditions in the CSF of MB patients. This notion was independently supported by metabolomics, demonstrating the up-regulation of tryptophan, methionine, serine and lysine, which have all been described to be induced upon hypoxia in CSF. While cyclooxygenase products were hardly detectable, the epoxygenase product and beta-oxidation promoting lipid hormone 12,13-DiHOME was found to be strongly up-regulated. Taken together, the data suggest a vicious cycle driven by autophagy, the formation of 12,13-DiHOME and increased beta-oxidation, thus promoting a metabolic shift supporting the formation of drug resistance and stem cell properties of MB cells. In conclusion, the different omics-techniques clearly synergized and mutually supported a novel model for a specific pathomechanism.
PXD011765	32467672	Proteome-wide identification of arginine methylation in colorectal cancer tissues from patients. 	Proteome-wide identification of arginine methylation in colorectal cancer tissues from patients	Asymmetric dimethyl-arginine, Colorectal cancer, Mono-methyl arginine, Protein arginine methylation	BACKGROUND: Protein arginine methylation reaction is catalyzed by protein arginine methyltransferase (PRMT) and the modification is implicated in various diseases including cancer. Currently, thousands of arginine methylation sites have been identified using high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics technology. However, identification of arginine methylation using clinical samples at proteome level has not been reported yet. The objective of the present study was to identify, monomethyl-arginine (MMA) and asymmetric dimethyl-arginine (ADMA) sites in colorectal cancer (CRC) tissues at proteome level. METHODS: Pooled CRC tissue samples from 10 patients with stage II and III were digested by trypsin and these digests were further processed and lyophilized. Using monomethyl- or asymmetric dimethyl arginine (MMA or ADMA, respectively) motif kits, methylarginine-containing peptides were enriched and subsequently analyzed by high-resolution LC-MS/MS. DLD1 and HCT116 colon cancer cells were treated with type I PRMTs inhibitor (MS023) alone or combined with SN-38, and the effect of the drugs on CRC cell proliferation and apoptosis was measured by water-soluble tetrazolium salt (WST-1) assay and FACS analysis, respectively. RESULTS: In the present study, 455 MMA sites of 272 proteins and 314 ADMA sites of 155 proteins were identified from CRC tissues acquired from patients. In addition, 216 methylation sites and 75 substrates for PRMTs were newly identified. These results reveal the significant presence of MMA and ADMA sites on nucleic acid binding proteins and protein complexes involved in transcription. To investigate the effect of protein arginine methylation in CRC proliferation and apoptosis, MS023 was treated to two CRC cell lines. After 48 h treatment with various concentrations of MS023, CRC cell proliferation was significantly suppressed, with concomitant apoptosis induction. Furthermore, MS023 treatment significantly enhanced the inhibitory effect of SN-38 on CRC cell proliferation. CONCLUSION: This work reports the first comprehensive analysis of arginine methylation with clinical sample and suggests that type I PRMTs are potential therapeutic targets for drug discovery in CRC.
PXD015653	32468700	A Comprehensive Analysis of Symmetric Arginine Dimethylation in Colorectal Cancer Tissues Using Immunoaffinity Enrichment and Mass Spectrometry. 	Comprehensive analysis of symmetric arginine dimethylation in colorectal cancer tissues from patients using immuniaffinity enrichment followed by LC-MS/MS analysis	Colorectal cancer, Immunoaffinity enrichment, PRMT5, Symmetric arginine methylation	Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) is a major enzyme responsible for generating monomethyl and symmetric dimethyl arginine in proteins. PRMT5 is essential for cell viability and development, and its overexpression is observed in a variety of cancers. In the present study, it is found that levels of PRMT5 protein and symmetric arginine dimethylation in colorectal cancer (CRC) tissues are increased compared to those in adjacent noncancerous tissues. Using immunoaffinity enrichment of methylated peptides combined with high-resolution mass spectrometry, a total of 147 symmetric dimethyl-arginine (SDMA) sites in 94 proteins are identified, many of which are RNA binding proteins and enzymes. Quantitative analysis comparing CRC and normal tissues reveals significant increase in the symmetric dimethylation of 70 arginine sites in 46 proteins and a decrease in that of four arginine sites in four proteins. Among the 94 proteins identified in this study, it is confirmed that KH-type splicing regulatory protein is a target of PRMT5 and highly expressed in CRC tissues compared to noncancerous tissues. This study is the first comprehensive analysis of symmetric arginine dimethylation using clinical samples and extends the number of known in vivo SDMA sites. The data obtained are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD015653.
PXD012231	32469046	Ubiquitome analysis reveals the involvement of lysine ubiquitination in the spermatogenesis process of adult buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) testis. 	Buffalo testis ubiquitome LC-MS/MS	Adult buffalo, lysine ubiquitination, testis	Protein ubiquitination, a major and conserved post-translational modification, is known to play a critical regulatory role in many biological processes in eukaryotes. Although several ubiquitinated proteins have been found in buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) testis in our previous studies, large-scale profiling of buffalo testis ubiquitome has not been reported to date. In the present study, we first identified a global profiling of lysine ubiquitination of adult buffalo testis using a highly sensitive LC-MS/MS coupled with immune-affinity enrichment of ubiquitinated peptides. In total, 422 lysine ubiquitination sites were identified in 262 proteins in adult buffalo testis tissue. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the ubiquitinated proteins are involved in a variety of biological processes and diverse subcellular localizations. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and protein interaction network analysis indicated that proteasome, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and gap junction pathways are modulated by protein ubiquitination in testis. Besides, 44 ubiquitinated proteins may involve in spermatogenesis according to the SpermatogenesisOnline database, of which, the ubiquitination of HSPA2 and UCHL1 were confirmed by Immunoprecipitation (IP)/Western blot analysis. Taken together, these data provide a global view of ubiquitome in buffalo testis for the first time, and serve as an important resource for exploring the physiological role especially spermatogenesis of lysine ubiquitination in testis in mammals.
PXD016313	32469928	Global changes in nitration levels and DNA binding profile of Trypanosoma cruzi histones induced by incubation with host extracellular matrix. 	Global changes in nitration levels and DNA binding profile of Trypanosoma cruzi histones induced by incubation with host extracellular matrix.	Trypanosoma cruzi, extracellular matrix, histones, tyrosine nitration	Adhesion of T. cruzi trypomastigotes to components of the extracellular matrix (ECM) is an important step in mammalian host cell invasion. We have recently described a significant increase in the tyrosine nitration levels of histones H2A and H4 when trypomastigotes are incubated with components of the ECM. In this work, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) with an anti-nitrotyrosine antibody followed by mass spectrometry to identify nitrated DNA binding proteins in T. cruzi and to detect alterations in nitration levels induced upon parasite incubation with the ECM. Histone H1, H2B, H2A and H3 were detected among the 9 most abundant nitrated DNA binding proteins using this proteomic approach. One nitrated tyrosine residue (Y29) was identified in Histone H2B in the MS/MS spectrum. In addition, we observed a significant increase in the nitration levels of histones H1, H2B, H2A and H4 upon parasite incubation with ECM. Finally, we used ChIP-Seq to map global changes in the DNA binding profile of nitrated proteins. We observed a significant change in the binding pattern of nitrated proteins to DNA after parasite incubation with ECM. This work provides the first global profile of nitrated DNA binding proteins in T. cruzi and additional evidence for modification in the nitration profile of histones upon parasite incubation with ECM. Our data also indicate that the parasite interaction with the ECM induces alterations in chromatin structure, possibly affecting nuclear functions.
PXD016387	32471074	Development and Validation of an in-House Library of Colombian Candida auris Strains with MALDI-TOF MS to Improve Yeast Identification. 	Development and Validation of an in-house library with Colombian Candida auris strains in MALDI TOF MS to improve yeast identification	MALDI Biotyper, MALDI TOF, MicroFlex, candida auris	: Background: Candida auris is characterized for having a high genetic variability among species. MALDI-TOF MS library contains spectra from only three strains of C. auris, which makes difficult the identification process and gives low scores at the species level. Our aim was to construct and validate an internal library to improve C. auris identification with Colombian clinical strains. METHODS: From 30 clinical strains, 770 mass spectra were obtained for the construction of the database. The validation was performed with 300 strains to compare the identification results in the BDAL and C. auris Colombia libraries. RESULTS: Our library allowed a complete, 100% identification of the evaluated strains and a significant improvement in the scores obtained, showing a better performance compared to the Bruker BDAL library. CONCLUSIONS: The strengthening of the database is a great opportunity to improve the scoring and C. auris identification. Library data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016387.
PXD015758	32471448	Functional insights from the GC-poor genomes of two aphid parasitoids, Aphidius ervi and Lysiphlebus fabarum. 	Lysiphlebus fabarum (Hymenoptera: Braconidae: Aphidiinae) venom proteomic analysis	Lysiphlebus, venom	BACKGROUND: Parasitoid wasps have fascinating life cycles and play an important role in trophic networks, yet little is known about their genome content and function. Parasitoids that infect aphids are an important group with the potential for biological control. Their success depends on adapting to develop inside aphids and overcoming both host aphid defenses and their protective endosymbionts. RESULTS: We present the de novo genome assemblies, detailed annotation, and comparative analysis of two closely related parasitoid wasps that target pest aphids: Aphidius ervi and Lysiphlebus fabarum (Hymenoptera: Braconidae: Aphidiinae). The genomes are small (139 and 141 Mbp) and the most AT-rich reported thus far for any arthropod (GC content: 25.8 and 23.8%). This nucleotide bias is accompanied by skewed codon usage and is stronger in genes with adult-biased expression. AT-richness may be the consequence of reduced genome size, a near absence of DNA methylation, and energy efficiency. We identify missing desaturase genes, whose absence may underlie mimicry in the cuticular hydrocarbon profile of L. fabarum. We highlight key gene groups including those underlying venom composition, chemosensory perception, and sex determination, as well as potential losses in immune pathway genes. CONCLUSIONS: These findings are of fundamental interest for insect evolution and biological control applications. They provide a strong foundation for further functional studies into coevolution between parasitoids and their hosts. Both genomes are available at https://bipaa.genouest.org.
PXD011598	32471912	Quantitative Proteome Profiling Reveals Cellobiose-Dependent Protein Processing and Export Pathways for the Lignocellulolytic Response in Neurospora crassa. 	QUANTITATIVE PROTEOME PROFILING OF NEUROSPORA CRASSA REVEALS A CELLOBIOSE-DEPENDENT NETWORK COORDINATING LIGNOCELLULOLYTIC RESPONSES	Cellobiose, Cellulase expression, Cellulase secretion, Cellulose, Protein Trafficking, Quantitative proteomics, SPS-MS3, TMT-labeling, UPR	Filamentous fungi are intensively used for producing industrial enzymes, including lignocellulases. Employing insoluble cellulose to induce the production of lignocellulases causes some drawbacks, e.g., a complex fermentation operation, which can be overcome by using soluble inducers such as cellobiose. Here, a triple beta-glucosidase mutant of Neurospora crassa, which prevents rapid turnover of cellobiose and thus allows the disaccharide to induce lignocellulases, was applied to profile the proteome responses to cellobiose and cellulose (Avicel). Our results revealed a shared proteomic response to cellobiose and Avicel, whose elements included lignocellulases and cellulolytic product transporters. While the cellulolytic proteins showed a correlated increase in protein and mRNA levels, only a moderate correlation was observed on a proteomic scale between protein and mRNA levels (R(2) = 0.31). Ribosome biogenesis and rRNA processing were significantly overrepresented in the protein set with increased protein but unchanged mRNA abundances in response to Avicel. Ribosome biogenesis, as well as protein processing and protein export, was also enriched in the protein set that showed increased abundance in response to cellobiose. NCU05895, a homolog of yeast CWH43, is potentially involved in transferring a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor to nascent proteins. This protein showed increased abundance but no significant change in mRNA levels. Disruption of CWH43 resulted in a significant decrease in cellulase activities and secreted protein levels in cultures grown on Avicel, suggesting a positive regulatory role for CWH43 in cellulase production. The findings should have an impact on a systems engineering approach for strain improvement for the production of lignocellulases.IMPORTANCE Lignocellulases are important industrial enzymes for sustainable production of biofuels and bio-products. Insoluble cellulose has been commonly used to induce the production of lignocellulases in filamentous fungi, which causes a difficult fermentation operation and enzyme loss due to adsorption to cellulose. The disadvantages can be overcome by using soluble inducers, such as the disaccharide cellobiose. Quantitative proteome profiling of the model filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa revealed cellobiose-dependent pathways for cellulase production, including protein processing and export. A protein (CWH43) potentially involved in protein processing was found to be a positive regulator of lignocellulase production. The cellobiose-dependent mechanisms provide new opportunities to improve the production of lignocellulases in filamentous fungi.
PXD016381	32471945	Redox controls metabolic robustness in the gas-fermenting acetogen Clostridium autoethanogenum. 	Redox controls metabolic robustness in the gas-fermenting acetogen Clostridium autoethanogenum	Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, acetogen, data-independent acquisition, gas fermentation, metabolic robustness, metabolism, oscillations	Living biological systems display a fascinating ability to self-organize their metabolism. This ability ultimately determines the metabolic robustness that is fundamental to controlling cellular behavior. However, fluctuations in metabolism can affect cellular homeostasis through transient oscillations. For example, yeast cultures exhibit rhythmic oscillatory behavior in high cell-density continuous cultures. Oscillatory behavior provides a unique opportunity for quantitating the robustness of metabolism, as cells respond to changes by inherently compromising metabolic efficiency. Here, we quantify the limits of metabolic robustness in self-oscillating autotrophic continuous cultures of the gas-fermenting acetogen Clostridium autoethanogenum Online gas analysis and high-resolution temporal metabolomics showed oscillations in gas uptake rates and extracellular byproducts synchronized with biomass levels. The data show initial growth on CO, followed by growth on CO and H2 Growth on CO and H2 results in an accelerated growth phase, after which a downcycle is observed in synchrony with a loss in H2 uptake. Intriguingly, oscillations are not linked to translational control, as no differences were observed in protein expression during oscillations. Intracellular metabolomics analysis revealed decreasing levels of redox ratios in synchrony with the cycles. We then developed a thermodynamic metabolic flux analysis model to investigate whether regulation in acetogens is controlled at the thermodynamic level. We used endo- and exo-metabolomics data to show that the thermodynamic driving force of critical reactions collapsed as H2 uptake is lost. The oscillations are coordinated with redox. The data indicate that metabolic oscillations in acetogen gas fermentation are controlled at the thermodynamic level.
PXD011979	32472050	A network of RNA-binding proteins controls translation efficiency to activate anaerobic metabolism. 	An oxygen-sensing network of RNA-binding proteins controls glycolysis via hypoxic translatome remodeling.	HIF, HIF-2alpha, HuR, PCBP1, PCBP2, PTBP1, Translation, glycolysis, hnRNP A2/B1, hypoxia	Protein expression evolves under greater evolutionary constraint than mRNA levels, and translation efficiency represents a primary determinant of protein levels during stimuli adaptation. This raises the question as to the translatome remodelers that titrate protein output from mRNA populations. Here, we uncover a network of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) that enhances the translation efficiency of glycolytic proteins in cells responding to oxygen deprivation. A system-wide proteomic survey of translational engagement identifies a family of oxygen-regulated RBPs that functions as a switch of glycolytic intensity. Tandem mass tag-pulse SILAC (TMT-pSILAC) and RNA sequencing reveals that each RBP controls a unique but overlapping portfolio of hypoxic responsive proteins. These RBPs collaborate with the hypoxic protein synthesis apparatus, operating as a translation efficiency checkpoint that integrates upstream mRNA signals to activate anaerobic metabolism. This system allows anoxia-resistant animals and mammalian cells to initiate anaerobic glycolysis and survive hypoxia. We suggest that an oxygen-sensitive RBP cluster controls anaerobic metabolism to confer hypoxia tolerance.
PXD017447	32472103	In situ chromatin interactomics using a chemical bait and trap approach. 	In situ chromatin interactomics using a chemical bait & trap approach: SILAC datasets	SILAC, chromatin, histone PTM	Elucidating the physiological binding partners of histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) is key to understanding fundamental epigenetic regulatory pathways. Determining such interactomes will enable the study of how perturbations of these interactions affect disease. Here we use a synthetic biology approach to set a series of hPTM-controlled photo-affinity traps in native chromatin. Using quantitative proteomics, the local interactomes of these chemically customized chromatin landscapes are determined. We show that the approach captures transiently interacting factors such as methyltransferases and demethylases, as well as previously reported and novel hPTM reader proteins. We also apply this in situ proteomics approach to a recently disclosed cancer-associated histone mutation, H3K4M, revealing a number of perturbed interactions with the mutated tail. Collectively our studies demonstrate that modifying and interrogating native chromatin with chemical precision is a powerful tool for exploring epigenetic regulation and dysregulation at the molecular level.
PXD018646	32477317	Quorum Sensing System-Regulated Proteins Affect the Spoilage Potential of Co-cultured Acinetobacter johnsonii and Pseudomonas fluorescens From Spoiled Bigeye Tuna (Thunnus obesus) as Determined by Proteomic Analysis. 	Quorum sensing system-regulated protein affect the spoilage potential of co-culturing Acinetobacter johnsonii and Pseudomonas fluorescens from spoilage bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus)	Acinetobacter johnsonii,Pseudomonas fluorescens	Food spoilage by certain species of bacteria is reported to be regulated by quorum sensing (QS). Acinetobacter johnsonii and Pseudomonas fluorescens, the major specific spoilage organisms, are found to be limited in their QS and co-culture interactions. The aim of this study was to determine how QS-regulated proteins affect the spoilage potential of co-cultured A. johnsonii and P. fluorescens obtained from spoiled bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) using a proteomics approach. The A. johnsonii, P. fluorescens, and their co-culture tested the N-acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) activities using reporter Chromobacterium violaceum CV026 and LC-MS/MS in qualitative and quantitative approaches, respectively. These latter showed that, of the 470 proteins and 444 proteins in A. johnsonii (A) and P. fluorescens (P), respectively, 80 were significantly up-regulated and 97 were significantly down-regulated in A vs. AP, whereas 90 were up-regulated and 65 were down-regulated in P vs. AP. The differentially expressed proteins included the AI-2E family transporter OS, 50S ribosomal protein L3, thioredoxin reductase OS, cysteine synthase CysM OS, DNA-binding response regulator, and amino acid ABC transporter ATPase OS. The cellular process (GO:0009987), metabolic process (GO:0008152), and single-organism process (GO:0044699) were classified into the gene ontology (GO) term. In addition, energy production and conversion, amino acid transport and metabolism, translation, ribosomal structure and biogenesis, post-translational modification, protein turnover, and chaperones were distributed into the clusters of orthologous groups of proteins (COG) terms. The KEGG pathways revealed that 84 and 77 differentially expressed proteins were divided into 20 KEGG pathways in A vs. AP and P vs. AP, respectively, and amino acid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, energy metabolism, and translation were significantly enriched. Proteins that correlated with the spoilage-related metabolic pathways, including thioredoxin reductase OS, cysteine synthase OS, and pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme family protein OS, were identified. AI-2E family transporter OS and LuxR family transcriptional regulator OS were identified that related to the QS system. These findings provide a differential proteomic profile of co-culture in A. johnsonii and P. fluorescens, and have potential applications in QS and the regulation of spoilage potential.
PXD018389	32477358	Airway Exosomes Released During Influenza Virus Infection Serve as a Key Component of the Antiviral Innate Immune Response. 	Airway exosomes released during influenza virus infection serve as a key component of the antiviral innate immune response	airway inflammation, antiviral activity, exosomes, influenza, mucosal immunity	Exosomes are extracellular vesicles secreted by cells that have an important biological function in intercellular communication by transferring biologically active proteins, lipids, and RNAs to neighboring or distant cells. While a role for exosomes in antimicrobial defense has recently emerged, currently very little is known regarding the nature and functional relevance of exosomes generated in vivo, particularly during an active viral infection. Here, we characterized exosomes released into the airways during influenza virus infection. We show that these vesicles dynamically change in protein composition over the course of infection, increasing expression of host proteins with known anti-influenza activity, and viral proteins with the potential to trigger host immune responses. We show that exosomes released into the airways during influenza virus infection trigger pulmonary inflammation and carry viral antigen that can be utilized by antigen presenting cells to drive the induction of a cellular immune response. Moreover, we show that attachment factors for influenza virus, namely alpha2,3 and alpha2,6-linked sialic acids, are present on the surface of airway exosomes and these vesicles have the ability to neutralize influenza virus, thereby preventing the virus from binding and entering target cells. These data reveal a novel role for airway exosomes in the antiviral innate immune defense against influenza virus infection.
PXD017215	32478812	A novel polyubiquitin chain linkage formed by viral Ubiquitin is resistant to host deubiquitinating enzymes. 	A novel polyubiquitin chain linkage formed by viral Ubiquitin resists cleavage by deubiquitinating enzymes	DUBs, Isopeptide bond, LC-MS, NMR, Proteasomal degradation, Ubiquitination	The Baculoviridae family of viruses encode a viral Ubiquitin (vUb) gene. Though the vUb is homologous to the host eukaryotic Ubiquitin (Ub), its preservation in the viral genome indicates unique functions that are not compensated by the host Ub. We report the structural, biophysical, and biochemical properties of the vUb from Autographa californica multiple nucleo-polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV). The packing of central helix alpha1 to the beta-sheet beta1-beta5 is different between vUb and Ub. Consequently, its stability is lower compared with Ub. However, the surface properties, ubiquitination activity, and the interaction with Ubiquitin-binding domains are similar between vUb and Ub. Interestingly, vUb forms atypical polyubiquitin chain linked by lysine at the 54th position (K54), and the deubiquitinating enzymes are ineffective against the K54-linked polyubiquitin chains. We propose that the modification of host/viral proteins with the K54-linked chains is an effective way selected by the virus to protect the vUb signal from host DeUbiquitinases.
PXD019320	32479063	Multi-in-One: Multiple-Proteases, One-Hour-Shot Strategy for Fast and High-Coverage Phosphoproteomic Investigation. 	Multi-in-One: Multiple-proteases, One-hour-shot Strategy for Fast and High-coverage Phosphoproteome	DIA, Multiple-protease, transcription factor	Although a multiple-protease based shotgun proteomics method was shown to improve coverage for phosphosite identification, this traditional pipeline is time-consuming and can be of low reproducibility. Here, we demonstrated a multi-in-one strategy to saturate the phosphosite coverage by combining the multiple-proteases based digestion, one-step enrichment, and one-shot data-independent acquisition (DIA) as short as 1 h. In the "three-in-one" workflow, more than 19,700 and 13,500 phosphosites could be identified in the trypsin-like and nontrypsin-like mixture, respectively. By combining and applying our "three-in-one" strategy, nearly 30,000 phosphosites could be successfully quantified with high reproducibility across samples. Meanwhile, we developed a faster and more robust method, in which over a single 66 min chromatographic method by "six-in-one" strategy, 19,445 phosphosites could be successfully localized, drastically reducing the database search time required in the traditional method. Inspiringly, this strategy further enabled us to discover 2,675 phosphorylation events on the low abundant transcription factors (TFs) in living cells with high coverage. More broadly, the multi-in-one strategy makes the multiple-protease digestion in large-scale analysis applicable, with low time-consuming, high sensitivity, improved coverage, and high reproducibility.
PXD015700	32479801	Hydrogen utilization by Methylocystis sp. strain SC2 expands the known metabolic versatility of type IIa methanotrophs. 	Hydrogen utilization by Methylocystis sp. strain SC2 expands the known metabolic versatility of type IIa methanotrophs	Knallgas bacteria, Methylocystis, hydogenase, metabolic model, methanotrophs	Methane, a non-expensive natural substrate, is used by Methylocystis spp. as a sole source of carbon and energy. Here, we assessed whether Methylocystis sp. strain SC2 is able to also utilize hydrogen as an energy source. The addition of 2% H2 to the culture headspace had the most significant positive effect on the growth yield under CH4 (6%) and O2 (3%) limited conditions. The SC2 biomass yield doubled from 6.41 (+/-0.52) to 13.82 (+/-0.69) mg cell dry weight per mmol CH4, while CH4 consumption was significantly reduced. Regardless of H2 addition, CH4 utilization was increasingly redirected from respiration to fermentation-based pathways with decreasing O2/CH4 mixing ratios. Theoretical thermodynamic calculations confirmed that hydrogen utilization under oxygen-limited conditions doubles the maximum biomass yield compared to fully aerobic conditions without H2 addition. Hydrogen utilization was linked to significant changes in the SC2 proteome. In addition to hydrogenase accessory proteins, the production of Group 1d and Group 2b hydrogenases was significantly increased in both short- and long-term incubations. Both long-term incubation with H2 (37 d) and treatments with chemical inhibitors revealed that SC2 growth under hydrogen-utilizing conditions does not require the activity of complex I. Apparently, strain SC2 has the metabolic capacity to channel hydrogen-derived electrons into the quinone pool, which provides a link between hydrogen oxidation and energy production. In summary, H2 may be a promising alternative energy source in biotechnologically oriented methanotroph projects that aim to maximize biomass yield from CH4, such as the production of high-quality feed protein.
PXD023330	32480081	Proteomics analysis reveals the effect of Aeromonas hydrophila sirtuin CobB on biological functions. 	Proteomics analysis reveals the effect of Aeromonas hydrophila sirtuin CobB on biological functions	Aeromonas hydrophila, DIA, LC MS/MS, Sirtuin CobB	Our previous studies have profiled lysine acetylation and succinylation modifications in Aeromonas hydrophila protein and have found that CobB may be involved in lysine deacylation; however, its effects on bacterial biological function are still unknown. In this study, a data-independent acquisition (DIA)-based proteomics method was used to compare the protein abundance between cob-deleted mutants and wild-type strains. Of the total 2385 identified proteins, 385 were found to have increased abundance, while only 46 showed decreased abundance. Data analysis revealed that many proteins in six metabolic pathways, ribosome, the bacterial secretion system, protein export, RNA degradation, beta-Lactam resistance and oxidative phosphorylation, were affected by the deletion of cobB. Some proteins, such as outer membrane proteins, the two-component regulatory systems and transcriptional factor, were also regulated by cobB. The following phenotype assays confirmed that the DeltacobB mutant produced more biofilm, migrated farther in soft agar, and was more sensitive to oxidative stress than its WT parent. Taken together, the results presented herein provide insights into the behaviors of sirtuin protein CobB in bacteria and demonstrate its important biological functions in A. hydrophila. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The sirtuin protein CobB play crucial roles on lysine deacylation, such as desuccinylation and deacetylation in many bacterial species, while the intrinsic behavior of CobB on bacteria remains elusive. The current DIA-based quantitative proteomics analysis showed that the deletion of A. hydrophila cobB significantly affect the intracellular biological processes. Further phenotype assays validated proteomics results. Overall, our data further confirmed the important roles of CobB on the complex protein-protein interaction network regulation in A. hydrophila.
PXD015931	32481657	A Comparative Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of HCMV-Infected Cells Highlights pUL138 as a Multifunctional Protein. 	Comparative quantitative proteomic analysis of HCMV infected cells highlights pUL138 as a multiple functional protein	HCMV, UL138, persistent infection, quantitative proteomics	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a widespread virus that can establish life-long latent infection in large populations. The establishment of latent infection prevents HCMV from being cleared by host cells, and HCMV reactivation from latency can cause severe disease and death in people with immature or compromised immune systems. To establish persistent and latent infection in healthy individuals, HCMV encodes a large array of proteins that can modulate different components and pathways of host cells. It has been reported that pUL138 encoded by the UL133-UL138 polycistronic locus promotes latent infection in primary CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) infected in vitro. In this study, recombinant HCMV HanUL138del was constructed by deleting the UL138 locus of Han, a clinical HCMV strain. Then, a comparative quantitative proteomic analysis of Han- and HanUL138del-infected MRC5 cells was performed to study the effect of pUL138 on host cells in the context of HCMV infection. Our results indicated that, during the early phase of HCMV infection, the innate immune response was differentially activated, while during the late phase of HCMV infection, multiple host proteins were differentially expressed between Han- and HanUL138del-infected cells, and these proteins are involved in the oxidation-reduction process, ER to Golgi vesicle-mediated transport, and extracellular matrix organization. Among these proteins, STEAP3, BORCS7, FAM172A, RELL1, and WDR48 were further demonstrated to affect HCMV infection. Our study provides a systematic view of the effect of pUL138 on the host cell proteome and highlights the proposition that multiple biological processes or host factors may be involved in the overall role of the UL133-UL138 polycistronic locus in HCMV persistence.
PXD008431	32482710	IgA Nephropathy Benefits from Compound K Treatment by Inhibiting NF-kappaB/NLRP3 Inflammasome and Enhancing Autophagy and SIRT1. 	2017 gddy+M1                  .	2D LC-MS/MS	IgA nephropathy (IgAN), the most common primary glomerular disorder, has a relatively poor prognosis yet lacks a pathogenesis-based treatment. Compound K (CK) is a major absorbable intestinal bacterial metabolite of ginsenosides, which are bioactive components of ginseng. The present study revealed promising therapeutic effects of CK in two complementary IgAN models: a passively induced one developed by repeated injections of IgA immune complexes and a spontaneously occurring model of spontaneous grouped ddY mice. The potential mechanism for CK includes 1) inhibiting the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome in renal tissues, macrophages and bone marrow-derived dendritic cells, 2) enhancing the induction of autophagy through increased SIRT1 expression, and 3) eliciting autophagy-mediated NLRP3 inflammasome inhibition. The results support CK as a drug candidate for IgAN.
PXD018839	32483148	Defective NADPH production in mitochondrial disease complex I causes inflammation and cell death. 	Defective NADPH Production in Mitochondrial Disease Complex I Causes Inflammation and Cell Death	Mitochondria, Nature Communication Manuscript:  NCOMMS-19-24220B, TMT	Electron transport chain (ETC) defects occurring from mitochondrial disease mutations compromise ATP synthesis and render cells vulnerable to nutrient and oxidative stress conditions. This bioenergetic failure is thought to underlie pathologies associated with mitochondrial diseases. However, the precise metabolic processes resulting from a defective mitochondrial ETC that compromise cell viability under stress conditions are not entirely understood. We design a whole genome gain-of-function CRISPR activation screen using human mitochondrial disease complex I (CI) mutant cells to identify genes whose increased function rescue glucose restriction-induced cell death. The top hit of the screen is the cytosolic Malic Enzyme (ME1), that is sufficient to enable survival and proliferation of CI mutant cells under nutrient stress conditions. Unexpectedly, this metabolic rescue is independent of increased ATP synthesis through glycolysis or oxidative phosphorylation, but dependent on ME1-produced NADPH and glutathione (GSH). Survival upon nutrient stress or pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) inhibition depends on compensatory NADPH production through the mitochondrial one-carbon metabolism that is severely compromised in CI mutant cells. Importantly, this defective CI-dependent decrease in mitochondrial NADPH production pathway or genetic ablation of SHMT2 causes strong increases in inflammatory cytokine signatures associated with redox dependent induction of ASK1 and activation of stress kinases p38 and JNK. These studies find that a major defect of CI deficiencies is decreased mitochondrial one-carbon NADPH production that is associated with increased inflammation and cell death.
PXD018147	32483152	Long noncoding RNA SAM promotes myoblast proliferation through stabilizing Sugt1 and facilitating kinetochore assembly. 	Long noncoding RNA SAM promotes myoblast proliferation through stabilizing Sugt1 and facilitating kinetochore assembly	LC-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Skeletal Muscle Proteome (B/D-HPP)	The functional study of lncRNAs in skeletal muscle satellite cells (SCs) remains at the infancy stage. Here we identify SAM (Sugt1 asssociated muscle) lncRNA that is enriched in the proliferating myoblasts. Global deletion of SAM has no overt effect on mice but impairs adult muscle regeneration following acute damage; it also exacerbates the chronic injury-induced dystrophic phenotype in mdx mice. Consistently, inducible deletion of SAM in SCs leads to deficiency in muscle regeneration. Further examination reveals that SAM loss results in a cell-autonomous defect in the proliferative expansion of myoblasts. Mechanistically, we find SAM interacts and stabilizes Sugt1, a co-chaperon protein key to kinetochore assembly during cell division. Loss of SAM or Sugt1 both disrupts kinetochore assembly in mitotic cells due to the mislocalization of two components: Dsn1 and Hec1. Altogether, our findings identify SAM as a regulator of SC proliferation through facilitating Sugt1 mediated kinetochore assembly during cell division.
PXD017611	32483291	Selective Mediator dependence of cell-type-specifying transcription. 	Mechanistic basis for selective Mediator-dependence of cell type-specifying transcription	LUMOS, chromatin proteomics, chromatome	The Mediator complex directs signals from DNA-binding transcription factors to RNA polymerase II (Pol II). Despite this pivotal position, mechanistic understanding of Mediator in human cells remains incomplete. Here we quantified Mediator-controlled Pol II kinetics by coupling rapid subunit degradation with orthogonal experimental readouts. In agreement with a model of condensate-driven transcription initiation, large clusters of hypophosphorylated Pol II rapidly disassembled upon Mediator degradation. This was accompanied by a selective and pronounced disruption of cell-type-specifying transcriptional circuits, whose constituent genes featured exceptionally high rates of Pol II turnover. Notably, the transcriptional output of most other genes was largely unaffected by acute Mediator ablation. Maintenance of transcriptional activity at these genes was linked to an unexpected CDK9-dependent compensatory feedback loop that elevated Pol II pause release rates across the genome. Collectively, our work positions human Mediator as a globally acting coactivator that selectively safeguards the functionality of cell-type-specifying transcriptional networks.
PXD016539	32483969	Parallel Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometry Method for Detection of Both Casein and Whey Milk Allergens from a Baked Food Matrix. 	PRM method for detection of both casein and whey milk allergens from baked food matrix	Milk allergen detection, PRM, Targeted mass spectrometry, baked food matrix, casein and whey proteins	Milk allergy is among the most common food allergies present in early childhood, which in some cases may persist into adulthood as well. Proteins belonging to both casein and whey fractions of milk can trigger an allergic response in susceptible individuals. Milk is present as an ingredient in many foods, and it can also be present as casein- or whey-enriched milk-derived ingredients. As whey proteins are more susceptible to thermal processing than caseins, conventional methods often posed a challenge in accurate detection of whey allergens, particularly from a processed complex food matrix. In this study, a targeted mass spectrometry method has been developed to detect the presence of both casein and whey allergens from thermally processed foods. A pool of 19 candidate peptides representing four casein proteins and two whey proteins was identified using a discovery-driven target selection approach from various milk-derived ingredients. These target peptides were evaluated by parallel reaction monitoring of baked cookie samples containing known amounts of nonfat dry milk (NFDM). The presence of milk could be detected from baked cookies incurred with NFDM at levels as low as 1 ppm using seven peptides representing alpha-, beta-, and kappa-casein proteins and three peptides representing a whey protein, beta-lactoglobulin, by this consensus PRM method.
PXD017772	32484548	DICER regulates the expression of major satellite repeat transcripts and meiotic chromosome segregation during spermatogenesis. 	DICER-interacting partners in juvenile mouse testes	DICER, germ cells, mouse testis	Constitutive heterochromatin at the pericentric regions of chromosomes undergoes dynamic changes in its epigenetic and spatial organization during spermatogenesis. Accurate control of pericentric heterochromatin is required for meiotic cell divisions and production of fertile and epigenetically intact spermatozoa. In this study, we demonstrate that pericentric heterochromatin is expressed during mouse spermatogenesis to produce major satellite repeat (MSR) transcripts. We show that the endonuclease DICER localizes to the pericentric heterochromatin in the testis. Furthermore, DICER forms complexes with MSR transcripts, and their processing into small RNAs is compromised in Dicer1 knockout mice leading to an elevated level of MSR transcripts in meiotic cells. We also show that defective MSR forward transcript processing in Dicer1 cKO germ cells is accompanied with reduced recruitment of SUV39H2 and H3K9me3 to the pericentric heterochromatin and meiotic chromosome missegregation. Altogether, our results indicate that the physiological role of DICER in maintenance of male fertility extends to the regulation of pericentric heterochromatin through direct targeting of MSR transcripts.
PXD018055	32484803	gamma9delta2T cell diversity and the receptor interface with tumor cells. 	The interactome of BTN3A1 (Butyrophilin Subfamily 3 Member A1)	AP-MS, BTN3A1	gamma9delta2T cells play a major role in cancer immune surveillance, yet the clinical translation of their in vitro promise remains challenging. To address limitations of previous clinical attempts using expanded gamma9delta2T cells, we explored the clonal diversity of gamma9delta2T cell repertoires and characterized their target. We demonstrated that only a fraction of expanded gamma9delta2T cells was active against cancer cells and that activity of the parental clone, or functional avidity of selected gamma9delta2 T cell receptors (gamma9delta2TCRs), was not associated with clonal frequency. Furthermore, we analyzed the target-receptor interface and provided a 2-receptor, 3-ligand model. We found that activation was initiated by binding of the gamma9delta2TCR to BTN2A1 through the regions between CDR2 and CDR3 of the TCR gamma chain and modulated by the affinity of the CDR3 region of the TCRdelta chain, which was phosphoantigen independent (pAg independent) and did not depend on CD277. CD277 was secondary, serving as a mandatory coactivating ligand. We found that binding of CD277 to its putative ligand did not depend on the presence of gamma9delta2TCR, did depend on usage of the intracellular CD277, created pAg-dependent proximity to BTN2A1, enhanced cell-cell conjugate formation, and stabilized the immunological synapse (IS). This process critically depended on the affinity of the gamma9delta2TCR and required membrane flexibility of the gamma9delta2TCR and CD277, facilitating their polarization and high-density recruitment during IS formation.
PXD016278	32485097	Proteome profiling in cerebrospinal fluid reveals novel biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease. 	Proteome Profiling in Cerebrospinal Fluid Reveals Novel Biomarkers of Alzheimers Disease	Alzheimers disease/ cerebrospinal fluid/ mass spectrometry/ neurodegeneration/ proteomics	Neurodegenerative diseases are a growing burden, and there is an urgent need for better biomarkers for diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment efficacy. Structural and functional brain alterations are reflected in the protein composition of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients have higher CSF levels of tau, but we lack knowledge of systems-wide changes of CSF protein levels that accompany AD. Here, we present a highly reproducible mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics workflow for the in-depth analysis of CSF from minimal sample amounts. From three independent studies (197 individuals), we characterize differences in proteins by AD status (> 1,000 proteins, CV < 20%). Proteins with previous links to neurodegeneration such as tau, SOD1, and PARK7 differed most strongly by AD status, providing strong positive controls for our approach. CSF proteome changes in Alzheimer's disease prove to be widespread and often correlated with tau concentrations. Our unbiased screen also reveals a consistent glycolytic signature across our cohorts and a recent study. Machine learning suggests clinical utility of this proteomic signature.
PXD016797	32485396	Proteomic analysis revealed ROS-mediated growth inhibition of Aspergillus terreus by shikonin. 	Effect of Shikonin on Aspergillus terreus	Amphotericin B, Biofilm, Catalase, Gallic acid, Oxidative stress, Shikonin	Aspergillus terreus is an emerging fungal pathogen in immunocompromised patients. Due to the intrinsic resistance of AmB against A. terreus and acquiring resistance to azoles, an alternative antifungal strategy needs investigation. Thus, we explored the activity of phytochemicals such as shikonin, gallic acid, coumaric acid and quercetin against A. terreus. Among these, shikonin showed significant inhibition at MIC50; 2 mug/ml. SEM analyses revealed delayed swelling and distorted cell wall organization in shikonin treated A. terreus conidia. Further, we performed differential proteome profiling using nLC-ESI-MS/MS, qRT-PCR and catalase assay with and without shikonin treated A. terreus. Protein data generated using Proteome Discoverer showed 882 differentially expressed proteins (680 up- and 202 down-regulated). GO analysis showed proteins from signaling pathways, oxidative stress, energy metabolism, and cytoskeleton organization. qRT-PCR of selected genes from ROS detoxification (catalase-peroxidase, superoxide dismutase), respiration (succinate-dehydrogenase, NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase), signaling (protein kinase C, Mitogen-activated protein kinase, cAMP-dependent protein kinase, ras-1), and 1, 3-beta-glucanosyltransferase, rho-1, beta-hexosaminidase showed correlation with expressed proteins. We also observed elevated reactive oxygen species using fluorescence ROS assay correlating with low catalase-peroxidase activity in shikonin treated A. terreus. Modulation of ROS homeostasis and the metabolic shift could be instrumental in shikonin- mediated growth inhibition of A. terreus. SIGNIFICANCE: Aspergillosis caused by A. terreus requires more attention due to the development of drug resistance. In this report, we employed nLC-ESI-MS/MS to identify the differential proteome in A. terreus in response to shikonin. The identified proteins involved in pathways influenced by shikonin could be helpful to understand the molecular mechanism on how shikonin/ phytochemicals or other antifungal agents inhibit fungal growth and may enable the discovery of novel or synergistic drug targets.
PXD006348	32486122	Pan-Proteomic Analysis and Elucidation of Protein Abundance among the Closely Related Brucella Species, Brucella abortus and Brucella melitensis. 	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of Brucella abortus and Brucella melitensis	Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis, LTQ Orbit, MaxQuant-Andromeda, Perseus software, ProteomeXchange project tag: ProteomeTools, comparative proteomic analysis, label free quantitative analysis	Brucellosis is a zoonotic infection caused by bacteria of the genus Brucella. The species, B. abortus and B. melitensis, major causative agents of human brucellosis, share remarkably similar genomes, but they differ in their natural hosts, phenotype, antigenic, immunogenic, proteomic and metabolomic properties. In the present study, label-free quantitative proteomic analysis was applied to investigate protein expression level differences. Type strains and field strains were each cultured six times, cells were harvested at a midlogarithmic growth phase and proteins were extracted. Following trypsin digestion, the peptides were desalted, separated by reverse-phase nanoLC, ionized using electrospray ionization and transferred into an linear trap quadrapole (LTQ) Orbitrap Velos mass spectrometer to record full scan MS spectra (m/z 300-1700) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) spectra of the 20 most intense ions. Database matching with the reference proteomes resulted in the identification of 826 proteins. The Cluster of Gene Ontologies of the identified proteins revealed differences in bimolecular transport and protein synthesis mechanisms between these two strains. Among several other proteins, antifreeze proteins, Omp10, superoxide dismutase and 30S ribosomal protein S14 were predicted as potential virulence factors among the proteins differentially expressed. All mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD006348.
PXD012921	32486127	Mass Spectrometry-Based Characterization of the Virion Proteome, Phosphoproteome, and Associated Kinase Activity of Human Cytomegalovirus. 	Mass spectrometry-based characterization of the virion proteome and phosphoproteome of human cytomegalovirus	Human cytomegalovirus, mass spectrometry-based proteomics, phosphorylation, proteins, virion composition	The assembly of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) virions is an orchestrated process that requires, as an essential prerequisite, the complex crosstalk between viral structural proteins. Currently, however, the mechanisms governing the successive steps in the constitution of virion protein complexes remain elusive. Protein phosphorylation is a key regulator determining the sequential changes in the conformation, binding, dynamics, and stability of proteins in the course of multiprotein assembly. In this review, we present a comprehensive map of the HCMV virion proteome, including a refined view on the virion phosphoproteome, based on previous publications supplemented by new results. Thus, a novel dataset of viral and cellular proteins contained in HCMV virions is generated, providing a basis for future analyses of individual phosphorylation steps and sites involved in the orchestrated assembly of HCMV virion-specific multiprotein complexes. Finally, we present the current knowledge on the activity of pUL97, the HCMV-encoded and virion-associated kinase, in phosphorylating viral and host proteins.
PXD012691	32486366	Low Doses of Arsenic in a Mouse Model of Human Exposure and in Neuronal Culture Lead to S-Nitrosylation of Synaptic Proteins and Apoptosis via Nitric Oxide. 	Arsenic induces reversible nitrosative stress and behavioural changes in mice	arsenic, autism. s-nitrosylation, brain, nitric oxide, snotrap	BACKGROUND: Accumulating public health and epidemiological literature support the hypothesis that arsenic in drinking water or food affects the brain adversely. METHODS: Experiments on the consequences of nitric oxide (NO) formation in neuronal cell culture and mouse brain were conducted to probe the mechanistic pathways of nitrosative damage following arsenic exposure. RESULTS: After exposure of mouse embryonic neuronal cells to low doses of sodium arsenite (SA), we found that Ca(2+) was released leading to the formation of large amounts of NO and apoptosis. Inhibition of NO synthase prevented neuronal apoptosis. Further, SA led to concerted S-nitrosylation of proteins significantly associated with synaptic vesicle recycling and acetyl-CoA homeostasis. Our findings show that low-dose chronic exposure (0.1-1 ppm) to SA in the drinking water of mice led to S-nitrosylation of proteomic cysteines. Subsequent removal of arsenic from the drinking water reversed the biochemical alterations. CONCLUSIONS: This work develops a mechanistic understanding of the role of NO in arsenic-mediated toxicity in the brain, incorporating Ca(2+) release and S-nitrosylation as important modifiers of neuronal protein function.
PXD015000	32487144	Differential proteomic analysis of fetal and geriatric lumbar nucleus pulposus: immunoinflammation and age-related intervertebral disc degeneration. 	Differential Proteomic Analysis of Fetal and Geriatric Lumbar Nucleus Pulposus	Intervertebral disc degeneration, proteomic analysis	BACKGROUND: Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a major cause of low back pain. Although the mechanism of degeneration remains unclear, aging has been recognized as a key risk factor for IVDD. Most studies seeking to identify IVDD-associated molecular alterations in the context of human age-related IVDD have focused only on a limited number of proteins. Differential proteomic analysis is an ideal method for comprehensively screening altered protein profiles and identifying the potential pathways related to pathological processes such as disc degeneration. METHODS: In this study, tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling was combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for differential proteomic analysis of human fetal and geriatric lumbar disc nucleus pulposus (NP) tissue. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and Western blotting (WB) techniques were used to identify target proteins. Bioinformatic analyses, including Gene Ontology (GO) annotation, domain annotation, pathway annotation, subcellular localization and functional enrichment analyses, were used to interpret the potential significance of the protein alterations in the mechanism of IVDD. Student's t-tests and two-tailed Fisher's exact tests were used for statistical analysis. RESULTS: Six hundred forty five proteins were significantly upregulated and 748 proteins were downregulated in the geriatric group compared with the fetal group. Twelve proteins were verified to have significant differences in abundance between geriatric and fetal NP tissue; most of these have not been previously identified as being associated with human IVDD. The potential significance of the differentially expressed proteins in age-related IVDD was analyzed from multiple perspectives, especially with regard to the association of the immunoinflammatory response with IVDD. CONCLUSIONS: Differential proteomic analysis was used as a comprehensive strategy for elucidating the protein alterations associated with age-related IVDD. The findings of this study will aid in the screening of new biomarkers and molecular targets for the diagnosis and therapy of IVDD. The results may also significantly enhance our understanding of the pathophysiological process and mechanism of age-related IVDD.
PXD018522	32487244	Proteomic signatures of metronidazole-resistant Trichomonas vaginalis reveal novel proteins associated with drug resistance. 	Proteomic signatures of metronidazole-resistant Trichomonas vaginalis	Trichomonas vaginalis, metronidazole resistance	BACKGROUND: Trichomoniasis is the most common non-viral sexually transmitted disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trichomonas vaginalis. Metronidazole (MTZ) is a widely used drug for the treatment of trichomoniasis; however, increased resistance of the parasite to MTZ has emerged as a highly problematic public health issue. METHODS: We conducted iTRAQ-based analysis to profile the proteomes of MTZ-sensitive (MTZ-S) and MTZ-resistant (MTZ-R) parasites. STRING and gene set enrichment analysis (GESA) were utilized to explore the protein-protein interaction networks and enriched pathways of the differentially expressed proteins, respectively. Proteins potentially related to MTZ resistance were selected for functional validation. RESULTS: A total of 3123 proteins were identified from the MTZ-S and MTZ-R proteomes in response to drug treatment. Among the identified proteins, 304 proteins were differentially expressed in the MTZ-R proteome, including 228 upregulated and 76 downregulated proteins. GSEA showed that the amino acid-related metabolism, including arginine, proline, alanine, aspartate, and glutamate are the most upregulated pathways in the MTZ-R proteome, whereas oxidative phosphorylation is the most downregulated pathway. Ten proteins categorized into the gene set of oxidative phosphorylation were ATP synthase subunit-related proteins. Drug resistance was further examined in MTZ-S parasites pretreated with the ATP synthase inhibitors oligomycin and bafilomycin A1, showing enhanced MTZ resistance and potential roles of ATP synthase in drug susceptibility. CONCLUSIONS: We provide novel insights into previously unidentified proteins associated with MTZ resistance, paving the way for future development of new drugs against MTZ-refractory trichomoniasis.
PXD018969	32487458	Keap1 governs ageing-induced protein aggregation in endothelial cells. 	Keap1 governs ageing-induced protein aggregation in endothelial cells	Keap1, aggregates	The breach of proteostasis, leading to the accumulation of protein aggregates, is a hallmark of ageing and age-associated disorders, up to now well-established in neurodegeneration. Few studies have addressed the issue of dysfunctional cell response to protein deposition also for the cardiovascular system. However, the molecular basis of proteostasis decline in vascular cells, as well as its relation to ageing, are not understood. Recent studies have indicated the associations of Nrf2 transcription factor, the critical modulator of cellular stress-response, with ageing and premature senescence. In this report, we outline the significance of protein aggregation in physiological and premature ageing of murine and human endothelial cells (ECs). Our study shows that aged donor-derived and prematurely senescent Nrf2-deficient primary human ECs, but not those overexpressing dominant-negative Nrf2, exhibit increased accumulation of protein aggregates. Such phenotype is also found in the aortas of aged mice and young Nrf2 tKO mice. Ageing-related loss of proteostasis in ECs depends on Keap1, well-known repressor of Nrf2, recently perceived as a key independent regulator of EC function and protein S-nitrosation (SNO). Deposition of protein aggregates in ECs is associated with impaired autophagy. It can be counteracted by Keap1 depletion, S-nitrosothiol reductant or rapamycin treatment. Our results show that Keap1:Nrf2 protein balance and Keap1-dependent SNO predominate Nrf2 transcriptional activity-driven mechanisms in governing proteostasis in ageing ECs.
PXD018337	32487994	Plasma-derived extracellular vesicles from Plasmodium vivax patients signal spleen fibroblasts via NF-kB facilitating parasite cytoadherence. 	Plasma-derived extracellular vesicles from Plasmodium vivax patients signal spleen fibroblasts via NF-kB facilitating parasite cytoadherence	Plasma, Plasmodium vivax, extracellular vesicles	Plasmodium vivax is the most widely distributed human malaria parasite. Previous studies have shown that circulating microparticles during P. vivax acute attacks are indirectly associated with severity. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are therefore major components of circulating plasma holding insights into pathological processes. Here, we demonstrate that plasma-derived EVs from Plasmodium vivax patients (PvEVs) are preferentially uptaken by human spleen fibroblasts (hSFs) as compared to the uptake of EVs from healthy individuals. Moreover, this uptake induces specific upregulation of ICAM-1 associated with the translocation of NF-kB to the nucleus. After this uptake, P. vivax-infected reticulocytes obtained from patients show specific adhesion properties to hSFs, reversed by inhibiting NF-kB translocation to the nucleus. Together, these data provide physiological EV-based insights into the mechanisms of human malaria pathology and support the existence of P. vivax-adherent parasite subpopulations in the microvasculature of the human spleen.
PXD017407	32488085	Multiplexed relative and absolute quantitative immunopeptidomics reveals MHC I repertoire alterations induced by CDK4/6 inhibition. 	Multiplexed relative and absolute quantitative immunopeptidomics reveals MHC I repertoire alterations induced by CDK4/6 inhibition	LC-M	Peptides bound to class I major histocompatibility complexes (MHC) play a critical role in immune cell recognition and can trigger an antitumor immune response in cancer. Surface MHC levels can be modulated by anticancer agents, altering immunity. However, understanding the peptide repertoire's response to treatment remains challenging and is limited by quantitative mass spectrometry-based strategies lacking normalization controls. We describe an experimental platform that leverages recombinant heavy isotope-coded peptide MHCs (hipMHCs) and multiplex isotope tagging to quantify peptide repertoire alterations using low sample input. HipMHCs improve quantitative accuracy of peptide repertoire changes by normalizing for variation across analyses and enable absolute quantification using internal calibrants to determine copies per cell of MHC antigens, which can inform immunotherapy design. Applying this platform in melanoma cell lines to profile the immunopeptidome response to CDK4/6 inhibition and interferon-gamma - known modulators of antigen presentation - uncovers treatment-specific alterations, connecting the intracellular response to extracellular immune presentation.
PXD017683	32488939	Dysfunctional oxidative phosphorylation shunts branched-chain amino acid catabolism onto lipogenesis in skeletal muscle. 	Skeletal Muscle from Mice fed with HFD LC-MSMS	Mouse Skeletal Muscle HFD	It is controversial whether mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle is the cause or consequence of metabolic disorders. Herein, we demonstrate that in vivo inhibition of mitochondrial ATP synthase in muscle alters whole-body lipid homeostasis. Mice with restrained mitochondrial ATP synthase activity presented intrafiber lipid droplets, dysregulation of acyl-glycerides, and higher visceral adipose tissue deposits, poising these animals to insulin resistance. This mitochondrial energy crisis increases lactate production, prevents fatty acid beta-oxidation, and forces the catabolism of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) to provide acetyl-CoA for de novo lipid synthesis. In turn, muscle accumulation of acetyl-CoA leads to acetylation-dependent inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory complex II enhancing oxidative phosphorylation dysfunction which results in augmented ROS production. By screening 702 FDA-approved drugs, we identified edaravone as a potent mitochondrial antioxidant and enhancer. Edaravone administration restored ROS and lipid homeostasis in skeletal muscle and reinstated insulin sensitivity. Our results suggest that muscular mitochondrial perturbations are causative of metabolic disorders and that edaravone is a potential treatment for these diseases.
PXD016061	32489334	Identification of TUBB2A by quantitative proteomic analysis as a novel biomarker for the prediction of distant metastatic breast cancer. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis identifies TUBB2A as a novel protein biomarker for prediction of distant metastatic breast cancer	Biomarkers, Distant metastatic breast cancer, Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, quantitative proteomics, tandem mass tag (TMT)	BACKGROUND: Metastasis of breast cancer to distal organs is fatal. However, few studies have identified biomarkers that are associated with distant metastatic breast cancer. Furthermore, the inability of current biomarkers, such as HER2, ER, and PR, to differentiate between distant and nondistant metastatic breast cancers accurately has necessitated the development of novel biomarker candidates. METHODS: An integrated proteomics approach that combined filter-aided sample preparation, tandem mass tag labeling (TMT), high pH fractionation, and high-resolution MS was applied to acquire in-depth proteomic data from FFPE distant metastatic breast cancer tissues. A bioinformatics analysis was performed with regard to gene ontology and signaling pathways using differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) to examine the molecular characteristics of distant metastatic breast cancer. In addition, real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and invasion/migration assays were performed to validate the differential regulation and function of our protein targets. RESULTS: A total of 9441 and 8746 proteins were identified from the pooled and individual sample sets, respectively. Based on our criteria, TUBB2A was selected as a novel biomarker candidate. The metastatic activities of TUBB2A were subsequently validated. In our bioinformatics analysis using DEPs, we characterized the overall molecular features of distant metastasis and measured differences in the molecular functions of distant metastatic breast cancer between breast cancer subtypes. CONCLUSIONS: Our report is the first study to examine the distant metastatic breast cancer proteome using FFPE tissues. The depth of our dataset allowed us to discover a novel biomarker candidate and a proteomic characteristics of distant metastatic breast cancer. Distinct molecular features of various breast cancer subtypes were also established. Our proteomic data constitute a valuable resource for research on distant metastatic breast cancer.
PXD001355	32489530	Quantitative proteomic analysis of trypsin-treated extracellular vesicles to identify the real-vesicular proteins. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of trypsin-treated extracellular vesicles to evaluate non-vesicular contaminants and surface vesicular proteins.	Quantitative proteomics, extracellular vesicles, non-vesicular contaminants, trypsin treatment	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are nano-sized vesicles surrounded by a lipid bilayer and released into the extracellular milieu by most of cells. Although various EV isolation methods have been established, most of the current methods isolate EVs with contaminated non-vesicular proteins. By applying the label-free quantitative proteomic analyses of human colon cancer cell SW480-derived EVs, we identified trypsin-sensitive and trypsin-resistant vesicular proteins. Further systems biology and protein-protein interaction network analyses based on their cellular localization, we classified the trypsin-sensitive and trypsin-resistant vesicular proteins into two subgroups: 363 candidate real-vesicular proteins and 151 contaminated non-vesicular proteins. Moreover, the protein interaction network analyses showed that candidate real-vesicular proteins are mainly derived from plasma membrane (46.8%), cytosol (36.6%), cytoskeleton (8.0%) and extracellular region (2.5%). On the other hand, most of the contaminated non-vesicular proteins derived from nucleus, Golgi apparatus, endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. In addition, ribosomal protein complexes and T-complex proteins were classified as the contaminated non-vesicular proteins. Taken together, our trypsin-digested proteomic approach on EVs is an important advance to identify the real-vesicular proteins that could help to understand EV biogenesis and protein cargo-sorting mechanism during EV release, to identify more reliable EV diagnostic marker proteins, and to decode pathophysiological roles of EVs.
PXD013220	32490075	Dataset of quantitative proteomic analysis to understand aging processes in rabbit liver. 	Quantitative Proteomics to Study Aging in Rabbit Liver	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), aging, cPILOT, enhanced multiplexing, liver, metabolism, quantitative proteomics, rabbit	Here, we present a proteomics dataset of liver proteins to understand aging in rabbits, which complements the publication "Quantitative proteomics to study aging in rabbit liver" [1]. This dataset was generated to understand the molecular basis and metabolic changes of aging processes in liver, which is the main organ involved in metabolism, detoxification, transport, and signaling. Proteins from young, middle, and old age rabbits were extracted and digested. Generated peptides were labeled with light or heavy dimethyl groups at their N-termini, while lysine amines were labeled with TMT10-plex using a cPILOT workflow [2]. Labeled peptides were fractionated by basic pH reverse phase chromatography and analyzed with online reverse phase LC coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS and MS(3)). The RAW files were generated using a Fusion Lumos Orbitrap mass spectrometer (Thermo Scientific) and processed with Proteome Discoverer (PD) version 2.2 to generate a list of identified and quantified proteins. Data was searched against the Rabbit UniProtKB redundant database. A total of 3,867 proteins were identified corresponding to 2,586 protein groups and 22,229 peptides. Dynamic levels of age-related proteins associated with fat metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction, and protein degradation were detected. The mass spectrometry proteomics data (RAW files) and processed Proteome Discoverer 2.2 files (MSF files) have been deposited to the Proteomics Identification Database (PRIDE) ProteomeXchange Consortium and can be accessed with the dataset identifier PDX013220 (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/projects/PXD013220).
PXD017406	32490574	Feedback regulation of heat shock factor 1 (Hsf1) activity by Hsp70-mediated trimer unzipping and dissociation from DNA. 	HX-MS data: Feedback regulation of heat shock factor 1 (Hsf1) activity by Hsp70-mediated trimer unzipping and dissociation from DNA	DNA binding, DnaJB1/Hdj1, Heat shock response, Hsf1, Hsp70, attenuation, entropic pulling, heat shock factor	The heat shock response is a universal transcriptional response to proteotoxic stress orchestrated by heat shock transcription factor Hsf1 in all eukaryotic cells. Despite over 40 years of intense research, the mechanism of Hsf1 activity regulation remains poorly understood at the molecular level. In metazoa, Hsf1 trimerizes upon heat shock through a leucine-zipper domain and binds to DNA. How Hsf1 is dislodged from DNA and monomerized remained enigmatic. Here, using purified proteins, we demonstrate that unmodified trimeric Hsf1 is dissociated from DNA in vitro by Hsc70 and DnaJB1. Hsc70 binds to multiple sites in Hsf1 with different affinities. Hsf1 trimers are monomerized by successive cycles of entropic pulling, unzipping the triple leucine-zipper. Starting this unzipping at several protomers of the Hsf1 trimer results in faster monomerization. This process directly monitors the concentration of Hsc70 and DnaJB1. During heat shock adaptation, Hsc70 first binds to a high-affinity site in the transactivation domain, leading to partial attenuation of the response, and subsequently, at higher concentrations, Hsc70 removes Hsf1 from DNA to restore the resting state.
PXD016690	32492232	Mass spectrometric characterisation of the circulating peptidome following oral glucose ingestion in control and gastrectomised patients. 	Alteration of the plasma peptidome of gastrectomised patients during an OGTT	OGTT, Plasma, gut hormones, peptidome	RATIONALE: Meal ingestion triggers secretion of a variety of gut and endocrine peptides important in diabetes research which are routinely measured by immunoassays. However, similarities between some peptides (glucagon, oxyntomodulin and glicentin) can cause specificity issues with immunoassays. We used a liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) methodology to unambiguously monitor multiple gut peptides in human plasma. METHODS: A simple acetonitrile-based protein precipitation step, followed by evaporation and solid-phase extraction, removed high-abundance proteins from samples prior to nano-LC/MS/MS analysis on an Orbitrap Q-Exactive Plus mass spectrometer using a data-dependent methodology. Database searching using PEAKS identified multiple gut-derived peptides, including peptides in the mid-pg/mL range. The relative levels of these and previously characterised peptides were assessed in plasma samples from gastrectomised and control subjects during an oral glucose tolerance test. RESULTS: Analysis of plasma extracts revealed significantly elevated levels of a number of peptides following glucose ingestion in subjects who had undergone gastrectomy compared with controls. These included GLP-1(7-36), GLP-1(9-36), glicentin, oxyntomodulin, GIP(1-42), GIP(3-42), PYY(1-36), PYY(3-36), neurotensin, insulin and C-peptide. Motilin levels decreased following glucose ingestion. Results showed good correlation with immunoassay-derived concentrations of some peptides in the same samples. The gastrectomy group also had higher, but non-glucose-dependent, circulating levels of peptides from PIGR and DMBT1. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the approach showed that a fast, generic and reproducible LC/MS/MS methodology requiring only a small volume of plasma was capable of the multiplexed detection of a variety of diabetes-related peptides.
PXD019221	32492406	Proteomic and Metabolomic Characterization of COVID-19 Patient Sera. 	[HPP-2.0] Proteomic and Metabolomic Characterization of COVID-19 Patient Sera	COVID-19, Metabolomics, Severity	Early detection and effective treatment of severe COVID-19 patients remain major challenges. Here, we performed proteomic and metabolomic profiling of sera from 46 COVID-19 and 53 control individuals. We then trained a machine learning model using proteomic and metabolomic measurements from a training cohort of 18 non-severe and 13 severe patients. The model was validated using 10 independent patients, 7 of which were correctly classified. Targeted proteomics and metabolomics assays were employed to further validate this molecular classifier in a second test cohort of 19 COVID-19 patients, leading to 16 correct assignments. We identified molecular changes in the sera of COVID-19 patients compared to other groups implicating dysregulation of macrophage, platelet degranulation, complement system pathways, and massive metabolic suppression. This study revealed characteristic protein and metabolite changes in the sera of severe COVID-19 patients, which might be used in selection of potential blood biomarkers for severity evaluation.
PXD018663	32492839	Fractionation of Enriched Phosphopeptides Using pH/Acetonitrile-Gradient-Reversed-Phase Microcolumn Separation in Combination with LC-MS/MS Analysis. 	Fractionation of phosphopeptides using reversed phase microcolumn prior to LC-MS analysis	H1299 cell line, phosphopeptide fractionation, phosphorylation	Mass spectrometry (MS) is a powerful and sensitive method often used for the identification of phosphoproteins. However, in phosphoproteomics, there is an identified need to compensate for the low abundance, insufficient ionization, and suppression effects of non-phosphorylated peptides. These may hamper the subsequent liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis, resulting in incomplete phosphoproteome characterization, even when using high-resolution instruments. To overcome these drawbacks, we present here an effective microgradient chromatographic technique that yields specific fractions of enriched phosphopeptides compatible with LC-MS/MS analysis. The purpose of our study was to increase the number of identified phosphopeptides, and thus, the coverage of the sample phosphoproteome using the reproducible and straightforward fractionation method. This protocol includes a phosphopeptide enrichment step followed by the optimized microgradient fractionation of enriched phosphopeptides and final LC-MS/MS analysis of the obtained fractions. The simple fractionation system consists of a gas-tight microsyringe delivering the optimized gradient mobile phase to reversed-phase microcolumn. Our data indicate that combining the phosphopeptide enrichment with the microgradient separation is a promising technique for in-depth phosphoproteomic analysis due to moderate input material requirements and more than 3-fold enhanced protein identification.
PXD017209	32493768	A mouse SWATH-mass spectrometry reference spectral library enables deconvolution of species-specific proteomic alterations in human tumour xenografts. 	A mouse SWATH-MS reference spectral library enables deconvolution of species-specific proteomic alterations in human tumour xenografts 	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), DCIS, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), SWATH-MS, breast cancer, xenograft model	SWATH-mass spectrometry (MS) enables accurate and reproducible proteomic profiling in multiple model organisms including the mouse. Here, we present a comprehensive mouse reference spectral library (MouseRefSWATH) that permits quantification of up to 10,597 proteins (62.2% of the mouse proteome) by SWATH-MS. We exploit MouseRefSWATH to develop an analytical pipeline for species-specific deconvolution of proteomic alterations in human tumour xenografts (XenoSWATH). This method overcomes the challenge of high sequence similarity between mouse and human proteins, facilitating the study of host microenvironment-tumour interactions from 'bulk tumour' measurements. We apply the XenoSWATH pipeline to characterize an intraductal xenograft model of breast ductal carcinoma in situ and uncover complex regulation consistent with stromal reprogramming, where the modulation of cell migration pathways is not restricted to tumour cells but also operates in the mouse stroma upon progression to invasive disease. MouseRefSWATH and XenoSWATH open new opportunities for in-depth and reproducible proteomic assessment to address wide-ranging biological questions involving this important model organism.
PXD014092	32493961	The RNA fold interactome of evolutionary conserved RNA structures in S. cerevisiae. 	The RNA fold interactome of evolutionary conserved yeast RNA structures in S. cerevisiae	RBP, interactomics	RNA-binding proteins play key roles in regulation of gene expression via recognition of structural features in RNA molecules. Here we apply a quantitative RNA pull-down approach to 186 evolutionary conserved RNA structures and report 162 interacting proteins. Unlike global RNA interactome capture, we associate individual RNA structures within messenger RNA with their interacting proteins. Of our binders 69% are known RNA-binding proteins, whereas some are previously unrelated to RNA binding and do not harbor canonical RNA-binding domains. While current knowledge about RNA-binding proteins relates to their functions at 5' or 3'-UTRs, we report a significant number of them binding to RNA folds in the coding regions of mRNAs. Using an in vivo reporter screen and pulsed SILAC, we characterize a subset of mRNA-RBP pairs and thus connect structural RNA features to functionality. Ultimately, we here present a generic, scalable approach to interrogate the increasing number of RNA structural motifs.
PXD016188	32494016	The CDK inhibitor CR8 acts as a molecular glue degrader that depletes cyclin K. 	The CDK12-inhibitor CR8 mediates Cyclin K degradation through the CUL4-RBX1-DDB1 E3 ubiquitin ligase	CDK12, CR8, CRL4DDB1, cyclin k, molecular glue, ubiquitin	Molecular glue compounds induce protein-protein interactions that, in the context of a ubiquitin ligase, lead to protein degradation(1). Unlike traditional enzyme inhibitors, these molecular glue degraders act substoichiometrically to catalyse the rapid depletion of previously inaccessible targets(2). They are clinically effective and highly sought-after, but have thus far only been discovered serendipitously. Here, through systematically mining databases for correlations between the cytotoxicity of 4,518 clinical and preclinical small molecules and the expression levels of E3 ligase components across hundreds of human cancer cell lines(3-5), we identify CR8-a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor(6)-as a compound that acts as a molecular glue degrader. The CDK-bound form of CR8 has a solvent-exposed pyridyl moiety that induces the formation of a complex between CDK12-cyclin K and the CUL4 adaptor protein DDB1, bypassing the requirement for a substrate receptor and presenting cyclin K for ubiquitination and degradation. Our studies demonstrate that chemical alteration of surface-exposed moieties can confer gain-of-function glue properties to an inhibitor, and we propose this as a broader strategy through which target-binding molecules could be converted into molecular glues.
PXD010943	32494068	Mouse models of neutropenia reveal progenitor-stage-specific defects. 	SWATH-MS Analysis of Gfi1-mutant bone marrow neutrophils	Gfi1, Neutrophil, SCN, SWATH	Advances in genetics and sequencing have identified a plethora of disease-associated and disease-causing genetic alterations. To determine causality between genetics and disease, accurate models for molecular dissection are required; however, the rapid expansion of transcriptional populations identified through single-cell analyses presents a major challenge for accurate comparisons between mutant and wild-type cells. Here we generate mouse models of human severe congenital neutropenia (SCN) using patient-derived mutations in the GFI1 transcription factor. To determine the effects of SCN mutations, we generated single-cell references for granulopoietic genomic states with linked epitopes(1), aligned mutant cells to their wild-type equivalents and identified differentially expressed genes and epigenetic loci. We find that GFI1-target genes are altered sequentially, as cells go through successive states of differentiation. These insights facilitated the genetic rescue of granulocytic specification but not post-commitment defects in innate immune effector function, and underscore the importance of evaluating the effects of mutations and therapy within each relevant cell state.
PXD019789	32495947	Root isoprene formation alters lateral root development. 	Root isoprene formation alters lateral root development Maja Miloradovic van Doorn	Populus x canescens, ROS, VOC, isoprene, isoprene promoter, lateral roots, poplar, reactive oxygen species, roots, volatile organic compounds.	Isoprene is a C5 volatile organic compound, which can protect aboveground plant tissue from abiotic stress such as short-term high temperatures and accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Here, we uncover new roles for isoprene in the plant belowground tissues. By analysing Populus x canescens isoprene synthase (PcISPS) promoter reporter plants, we discovered PcISPS promoter activity in certain regions of the roots including the vascular tissue, the differentiation zone and the root cap. Treatment of roots with auxin or salt increased PcISPS promoter activity at these sites, especially in the developing lateral roots (LR). Transgenic, isoprene non-emitting poplar roots revealed an accumulation of O2(-) in the same root regions where PcISPS promoter activity was localized. Absence of isoprene emission, moreover, increased the formation of LRs. Inhibition of NAD(P)H oxidase activity suppressed LR development, suggesting the involvement of ROS in this process. The analysis of the fine root proteome revealed a constitutive shift in the amount of several redox balance, signalling and development related proteins, such as superoxide dismutase, various peroxidases and linoleate 9S-lipoxygenase, in isoprene non-emitting poplar roots. Together our results indicate for isoprene a ROS-related function, eventually co-regulating the plant-internal signalling network and development processes in root tissue.
PXD015395	32496553	A universal method for the rapid isolation of all known classes of functional silencing small RNAs. 	A universal method for the rapid isolation of all known classes of functional small RNAs	Argonaute, mRNA binding proeins, small RNA	Diverse classes of silencing small (s)RNAs operate via ARGONAUTE-family proteins within RNA-induced-silencing-complexes (RISCs). Here, we have streamlined various embodiments of a Q-sepharose-based RISC-purification method that relies on conserved biochemical properties of all ARGONAUTEs. We show, in multiple benchmarking assays, that the resulting 15-min benchtop extraction procedure allows simultaneous purification of all known classes of RISC-associated sRNAs without prior knowledge of the samples-intrinsic ARGONAUTE repertoires. Optimized under a user-friendly format, the method - coined 'TraPR' for Trans-kingdom, rapid, affordable Purification of RISCs - operates irrespectively of the organism, tissue, cell type or bio-fluid of interest, and scales to minute amounts of input material. The method is highly suited for direct profiling of silencing sRNAs, with TraPR-generated sequencing libraries outperforming those obtained via gold-standard procedures that require immunoprecipitations and/or lengthy polyacrylamide gel-selection. TraPR considerably improves the quality and consistency of silencing sRNA sample preparation including from notoriously difficult-to-handle tissues/bio-fluids such as starchy storage roots or mammalian plasma, and regardless of RNA contaminants or RNA degradation status of samples.
PXD018310	32496805	Use of Multiple Ion Fragmentation Methods to Identify Protein Cross-Links and Facilitate Comparison of Data Interpretation Algorithms. 	Identify Yeast Proteasome Cross-links with Multiple Ion Fragmentation Methods	Cross-links, Proteasome	Multiple ion fragmentation methods involving collision-induced dissociation (CID), higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) with regular and very high energy settings, and electron-transfer dissociation with supplementary HCD (EThcD) are implemented to improve the confidence of cross-link identifications. Three different S. cerevisiae proteasome samples cross-linked by diethyl suberthioimidate (DEST) or bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS(3)) are analyzed. Two approaches are introduced to combine interpretations from the above four methods. Working with cleavable cross-linkers such as DEST, the first approach searches for cross-link diagnostic ions and consistency among the best interpretations derived from all four MS(2) spectra associated with each precursor ion. Better agreement leads to a more definitive identification. Compatible with both cleavable and noncleavable cross-linkers such as BS(3), the second approach multiplies scoring metrics from a number of fragmentation experiments to derive an overall best match. This significantly increases the scoring gap between the target and decoy matches. The validity of cross-links fragmented by HCD alone and identified by Kojak, MeroX, pLink, and Xi was evaluated using multiple fragmentation data. Possible ways to improve the identification credibility are discussed. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018310.
PXD017864	32498228	Remodeling of the Histoplasma Capsulatum Membrane Induced by Monoclonal Antibodies. 	Multi-omics analysis of Histoplasma capsulatum treated with monoclonal antibodies	Histoplasma capsulatum, Multi-omics, antifungal, fungi, lipid metabolism, monoclonal antibodies	Antibodies play a central role in host immunity by directly inactivating or recognizing an invading pathogen to enhance different immune responses to combat the invader. However, the cellular responses of pathogens to the presence of antibodies are not well-characterized. Here, we used different mass spectrometry techniques to study the cellular responses of the pathogenic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum to monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against HSP60, the surface protein involved in infection. A proteomic analysis of H. capsulatum yeast cells revealed that mAb binding regulates a variety of metabolic and signaling pathways, including fatty acid metabolism, sterol metabolism, MAPK signaling and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. The regulation of the fatty acid metabolism was accompanied by increases in the level of polyunsaturated fatty acids, which further augmented the degree of unsaturated lipids in H. capsulatum's membranes and energy storage lipids, such as triacylglycerols, phosphatidylcholines, phosphatidylethanolamines and phosphatidylinositols. MAb treatment also regulated sterol metabolism by increasing the levels of cholesterol and ergosterol in the cells. We also showed that global changes in the lipid profiles resulted in an increased susceptibility of H. capsulatum to the ergosterol-targeting drug amphotericin B. Overall, our data showed that mAb induction of global changes in the composition of H. capsulatum membranes can potentially impact antifungal treatment during histoplasmosis.
PXD018749	32499524	The Mi-2 nucleosome remodeler and the Rpd3 histone deacetylase are involved in piRNA-guided heterochromatin formation. 	The Mi-2 nucleosome remodeler and the Rpd3 histone deacetylase are involved in piRNA-guided heterochromatin formation	Gtsf1, MEP-1, Mi-2, RPD3	In eukaryotes, trimethylation of lysine 9 on histone H3 (H3K9) is associated with transcriptional silencing of transposable elements (TEs). In drosophila ovaries, this heterochromatic repressive mark is thought to be deposited by SetDB1 on TE genomic loci after the initial recognition of nascent transcripts by PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) loaded on the Piwi protein. Here, we show that the nucleosome remodeler Mi-2, in complex with its partner MEP-1, forms a subunit that is transiently associated, in a MEP-1 C-terminus-dependent manner, with known Piwi interactors, including a recently reported SUMO ligase, Su(var)2-10. Together with the histone deacetylase Rpd3, this module is involved in the piRNA-dependent TE silencing, correlated with H3K9 deacetylation and trimethylation. Therefore, drosophila piRNA-mediated transcriptional silencing involves three epigenetic effectors, a remodeler, Mi-2, an eraser, Rpd3 and a writer, SetDB1, in addition to the Su(var)2-10 SUMO ligase.
PXD019118	32500258	Automation and low-cost proteomics for characterization of the protein corona: experimental methods for big data. 	5224 Payne May 2020 Data Characterize proteins binding to nanoparticle surfaces	nano particle	Nanoparticles used in biological settings are exposed to proteins that adsorb on the surface forming a protein corona. These adsorbed proteins dictate the subsequent cellular response. A major challenge has been predicting what proteins will adsorb on a given nanoparticle surface. Instead, each new nanoparticle and nanoparticle modification must be tested experimentally to determine what proteins adsorb on the surface. We propose that any future predictive ability will depend on large datasets of protein-nanoparticle interactions. As a first step towards this goal, we have developed an automated workflow using a liquid handling robot to form and isolate protein coronas. As this workflow depends on magnetic separation steps, we test the ability to embed magnetic nanoparticles within a protein nanoparticle. These experiments demonstrate that magnetic separation could be used for any type of nanoparticle in which a magnetic core can be embedded. Higher-throughput corona characterization will also require lower-cost approaches to proteomics. We report a comparison of fast, low-cost, and standard, slower, higher-cost liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry to identify the protein corona. These methods will provide a step forward in the acquisition of the large datasets necessary to predict nanoparticle-protein interactions.
PXD018383	32500712	Proximal Biotinylation-Based Combinatory Approach for Isolating Integral Plasma Membrane Proteins. 	Proximal Biotinylation Based Combinatory Approach for Isolating Plasma Membrane Proteins	biotinylation, cell surface, plasma membrane, sucrose density fractionation	Comprehensive profiling of the cell-surface proteome has been challenging due to the lack of tools for an effective and reproducible way to isolate plasma membrane proteins from mammalian cells. Here we employ a proximity-dependent biotinylation approach to label and isolate plasma membrane proteins without an extra in vitro labeling step, which we call Plasma Membrane-BioID. The lipid-modified BirA* enzyme (MyrPalm BirA*) was targeted to the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane, where it effectively biotinylated plasma membrane proteins. Biotinylated proteins were then affinity-purified and analyzed by mass spectrometry. Our analysis demonstrates that combining conventional sucrose density gradient centrifugation and Plasma Membrane-BioID is ideal to overcome the inherent limitations of the identification of integral membrane proteins, and it yields highly pure plasma components for downstream proteomic analysis.
PXD017646	32500713	Optimal Dissociation Methods Differ for N- and O-Glycopeptides. 	Optimal Dissociation Methods Differ for N- and O-glycopeptides	ETD, EThcD, N-glycopeptides, O-glycopeptides, glycoproteomics, sceHCD	Site-specific characterization of glycosylation requires intact glycopeptide analysis, and recent efforts have focused on how to best interrogate glycopeptides using tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Beam-type collisional activation, i.e., higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD), has been a valuable approach, but stepped collision energy HCD (sceHCD) and electron transfer dissociation with HCD supplemental activation (EThcD) have emerged as potentially more suitable alternatives. Both sceHCD and EThcD have been used with success in large-scale glycoproteomic experiments, but they each incur some degree of compromise. Most progress has occurred in the area of N-glycoproteomics. There is growing interest in extending this progress to O-glycoproteomics, which necessitates comparisons of method performance for the two classes of glycopeptides. Here, we systematically explore the advantages and disadvantages of conventional HCD, sceHCD, ETD, and EThcD for intact glycopeptide analysis and determine their suitability for both N- and O-glycoproteomic applications. For N-glycopeptides, HCD and sceHCD generate similar numbers of identifications, although sceHCD generally provides higher quality spectra. Both significantly outperform EThcD methods in terms of identifications, indicating that ETD-based methods are not required for routine N-glycoproteomics even if they can generate higher quality spectra. Conversely, ETD-based methods, especially EThcD, are indispensable for site-specific analyses of O-glycopeptides. Our data show that O-glycopeptides cannot be robustly characterized with HCD-centric methods that are sufficient for N-glycopeptides, and glycoproteomic methods aiming to characterize O-glycopeptides must be constructed accordingly.
PXD015836	32500975	Proteasome subunit PSMC3 variants cause neurosensory syndrome combining deafness and cataract due to proteotoxic stress. 	Deep intronic homozygous variation in PSMC3, a subunit of the 19S proteasome regulatory complex, causes a syndromic neurosensory disorder combining deafness and cataract	human whole genome, proteasome, rare disease	The ubiquitin-proteasome system degrades ubiquitin-modified proteins to maintain protein homeostasis and to control signalling. Whole-genome sequencing of patients with severe deafness and early-onset cataracts as part of a neurological, sensorial and cutaneous novel syndrome identified a unique deep intronic homozygous variant in the PSMC3 gene, encoding the proteasome ATPase subunit Rpt5, which lead to the transcription of a cryptic exon. The proteasome content and activity in patient's fibroblasts was however unaffected. Nevertheless, patient's cells exhibited impaired protein homeostasis characterized by accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins suggesting severe proteotoxic stress. Indeed, the TCF11/Nrf1 transcriptional pathway allowing proteasome recovery after proteasome inhibition is permanently activated in the patient's fibroblasts. Upon chemical proteasome inhibition, this pathway was however impaired in patient's cells, which were unable to compensate for proteotoxic stress although a higher proteasome content and activity. Zebrafish modelling for knockout in PSMC3 remarkably reproduced the human phenotype with inner ear development anomalies as well as cataracts, suggesting that Rpt5 plays a major role in inner ear, lens and central nervous system development.
PXD017619	32501284	Real-time dynamics of Plasmodium NDC80 reveals unusual modes of chromosome segregation during parasite proliferation. 	Real-time dynamics of Plasmodium Ndc80 reveals unusual modes of chromosome segregation during parasite proliferative stages	Malaria, Ndc80, Plasmodium, Warwick-RTP, chromosome segregation, parasite, proliferation	Eukaryotic cell proliferation requires chromosome replication and precise segregation to ensure daughter cells have identical genomic copies. Species of the genus Plasmodium, the causative agents of malaria, display remarkable aspects of nuclear division throughout their life cycle to meet some peculiar and unique challenges to DNA replication and chromosome segregation. The parasite undergoes atypical endomitosis and endoreduplication with an intact nuclear membrane and intranuclear mitotic spindle. To understand these diverse modes of Plasmodium cell division, we have studied the behaviour and composition of the outer kinetochore NDC80 complex, a key part of the mitotic apparatus that attaches the centromere of chromosomes to microtubules of the mitotic spindle. Using NDC80-GFP live-cell imaging in Plasmodium berghei, we observe dynamic spatiotemporal changes during proliferation, including highly unusual kinetochore arrangements during sexual stages. We identify a very divergent candidate for the SPC24 subunit of the NDC80 complex, previously thought to be missing in Plasmodium, which completes a canonical, albeit unusual, NDC80 complex structure. Altogether, our studies reveal the kinetochore to be an ideal tool to investigate the non-canonical modes of chromosome segregation and cell division in Plasmodium.
PXD018704	32501498	Use of the Polo-like kinase 4 (PLK4) inhibitor centrinone to investigate intracellular signalling networks using SILAC-based phosphoproteomics. 	Use of the Polo-like kinase 4 (PLK4) inhibitor centrinone to investigate intracellular signaling networks using SILAC-based phosphoproteomics_C4PR	Inhibitor, PLK4, centrinone, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation, substrate	Polo-like kinase 4 (PLK4) is the master regulator of centriole duplication in metazoan organisms. Catalytic activity and protein turnover of PLK4 are tightly coupled in human cells, since changes in PLK4 concentration and catalysis have profound effects on centriole duplication and supernumerary centrosomes, which are associated with aneuploidy and cancer. Recently, PLK4 has been targeted with a variety of small molecule kinase inhibitors exemplified by centrinone, which rapidly induces inhibitory effects on PLK4 and leads to on-target centrosome depletion. Despite this, relatively few PLK4 substrates have been identified unequivocally in human cells, and PLK4 signalling outside centriolar networks remains poorly characterised. We report an unbiased mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative analysis of cellular protein phosphorylation in stable PLK4-expressing U2OS human cells exposed to centrinone. PLK4 phosphorylation was itself sensitive to brief exposure to the compound, resulting in PLK4 stabilisation. Analysing asynchronous cell populations, we report hundreds of centrinone-regulated cellular phosphoproteins, including centrosomal and cell cycle proteins and a variety of likely 'non-canonical' substrates. Surprisingly, sequence interrogation of ~300 significantly down-regulated phosphoproteins reveals an extensive network of centrinone-sensitive [Ser/Thr]Pro phosphorylation sequence motifs, which based on our analysis might be either direct or indirect targets of PLK4. In addition, we confirm that NMYC and PTPN12 are PLK4 substrates, both in vitro and in human cells. Our findings suggest that PLK4 catalytic output directly controls the phosphorylation of a diverse set of cellular proteins, including Pro-directed targets that are likely to be important in PLK4-mediated cell signalling.
PXD018130	32501701	Proteomic Analysis of Sri Lanka Echis carinatus Venom: Immunological Cross-Reactivity and Enzyme Neutralization Potency of Indian Polyantivenom. 	Proteomics analysis of Echis carinatus venom from Sri Lanka	shotgun proteomics, snake venom	The saw-scaled viper (Echis carinatus carinatus) is a major venomous snake in Sri Lanka (SL) responsible for massive numbers of snakebites on the island; nevertheless, its venom proteome composition has never been explored. The proteome composition of SL E. c. carinatus venom (SL ECV), revealed by tandem mass spectrometry analysis, showed that it is composed of 42 enzymatic and nonenzymatic proteins belonging to 12 snake venom protein families. Snake venom metalloproteases (SVMP) and snaclec comprised the most abundant enzymatic and nonenzymatic proteins, respectively. When the composition of SL ECV was compared to the previously determined venom composition of Southern India ECV (SI ECV), 16 proteins were found in common. The SL ECV proteome composition was correlated with the clinical manifestations and pathophysiology of E. c. carinatus envenomation in SL. Polyvalent antivenom (PAV) raised in equine against the "Big Four" venomous snakes of India is typically exported to SL for snakebite treatment; however, the poor immunological cross-reactivity, partial in vitro neutralization of enzymatic activities, and some pharmacological properties, mostly shown by low molecular mass toxins (25 kDa) of SL ECV by Indian PAVs are major concerns for the effective treatment of ECV envenomation in SL.
PXD017918	32502341	Extending the Comprehensiveness of Immunopeptidome Analyses Using Isobaric Peptide Labeling. 	Extending the Comprehensiveness of Immunopeptidome Analyses Using Isobaric Peptide Labeling	FAIMS, MHC, TMT, minor antigens, tumor specific antigens	Defining the repertoire of peptides presented by the major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) is a key step toward the identification of relevant antigens for cancer immunotherapy. However, the identification of cancer-specific antigens is a significant analytical challenge in view of their low abundance and low mutational load found in most primary cancer specimens. Here, we describe the application of isobaric peptide labeling with tandem mass tag (TMT) to improve the detection of the MHC I peptides. Isobaric peptide labeling was found to promote the formation of multiply charged ions and to enhance the formation of b-type fragment ions, thus resulting in a 50% improvement of MHC I peptide identification. The gain in sensitivity obtained using TMT labeling enabled the detection of low-abundance MHC I peptides including tumor-specific antigens (TSAs) and minor histocompatibility antigens (MiHAs). We further demonstrate the application of this approach to quantify MiHAs presented by B-cell lymphocytes and determined their expression levels by LC-MS/MS using both synchronous precursor selection (SPS) and high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS).
PXD014665	32502404	MKLP2 Is a Motile Kinesin that Transports the Chromosomal Passenger Complex during Anaphase. 	MKLP2 walks along microtubules and takes the CPC along for a ride	MKLP2, chromosomal passenger complex, motor proteins	During cytokinesis, signals from the anaphase spindle direct the formation and position of a contractile ring at the cell cortex [1]. The chromosomal passenger complex (CPC) participates in cytokinesis initiation by signaling from the spindle midzone and equatorial cortex [2], but the mechanisms underlying the anaphase-specific CPC localization are currently unresolved. Accumulation of the CPC at these sites requires the presence of microtubules and the mitotic kinesin-like protein 2, MKLP2 (KIF20A), a member of the kinesin-6 family [2-7], and this has led to the hypothesis that the CPC is transported along microtubules by MKLP2 [3-5, 7]. However, the structure of the MKLP2 motor domain with its extended neck-linker region suggests that this kinesin might not be able to drive processive transport [8, 9]. Furthermore, experiments in Xenopus egg extracts indicated that the CPC might be transported by kinesin-4, KIF4A [10]. Finally, CPC-MKLP2 complexes might be directly recruited to the equatorial cortex via association with actin and myosin II, independent of kinesin activity [4, 8]. Using microscopy-based assays with purified proteins, we demonstrate that MKLP2 is a processive plus-end directed motor that can transport the CPC along microtubules in vitro. In cells, strong suppression of MKLP2-dependent CPC motility by expression of an MKLP2 P-loop mutant perturbs CPC accumulation at both the spindle midzone and equatorial cortex, whereas a weaker inhibition of MKLP2 motor using Paprotrain mainly affects CPC localization to the equatorial cortex. Our data indicate that control of cytokinesis initiation by the CPC requires its directional MKLP2-dependent transport.
PXD012054	32502629	High throughput generation of a resource of the human secretome in mammalian cells. 	High throughput generation of a resource of the human secretome in mammalian cells	assay development, dia, human secretome, plasma	The proteins secreted by human tissues and blood cells, the secretome, are important both for the basic understanding of human biology and for identification of potential targets for future diagnosis and therapy. Here, a high-throughput mammalian cell factory is presented that was established to create a resource of recombinant full-length proteins covering the majority of those annotated as 'secreted' in humans. The full-length DNA sequences of each of the predicted secreted proteins were generated by gene synthesis, the constructs were transfected into Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and the recombinant proteins were produced, purified and analyzed. Almost 1,300 proteins were successfully generated and proteins predicted to be secreted into the blood were produced with a success rate of 65%, while the success rates for the other categories of secreted proteins were somewhat lower giving an overall one-pass success rate of ca. 58%. The proteins were used to generate targeted proteomics assays and several of the proteins were shown to be active in a phenotypic assay involving pancreatic beta-cell dedifferentiation. Many of the proteins that failed during production in CHO cells could be rescued in human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells suggesting that a cell factory of human origin can be an attractive alternative for production in mammalian cells. In conclusion, a high-throughput protein production and purification system has been successfully established to create a unique resource of the human secretome.
PXD018585	32503348	Proteins and Molecular Pathways Relevant for the Malignant Properties of Tumor-Initiating Pancreatic Cancer Cells. 	Proteins and Molecular Pathways Relevant for Stemness Properties of Tumor-Initiating Pancreatic Cancer Stem Cells Recognized by Differential Proteome-, Gene Expression-, and Functional Analysis	LGALS3BP, MAC-2-BP, MRP14, MRP8, S100 proteins, S100A8, S100A9, differential proteome analysis, functional assays, pancreatic cancer stem cells, tumor grafting model	Cancer stem cells (CSCs), a small subset of the tumor bulk with highly malignant properties, are deemed responsible for tumor initiation, growth, metastasis, and relapse. In order to reveal molecular markers and determinants of their tumor-initiating properties, we enriched rare stem-like pancreatic tumor-initiating cells (TICs) by harnessing their clonogenic growth capacity in three-dimensional multicellular spheroid cultures. We compared pancreatic TICs isolated from three-dimensional tumor spheroid cultures with nontumor-initiating cells (non-TICs) enriched in planar cultures. Employing differential proteomics (PTX), we identified more than 400 proteins with significantly different expression in pancreatic TICs and the non-TIC population. By combining the unbiased PTX with mRNA expression analysis and literature-based predictions of pro-malignant functions, we nominated the two calcium-binding proteins S100A8 (MRP8) and S100A9 (MRP14) as well as galactin-3-binding protein LGALS3BP (MAC-2-BP) as putative determinants of pancreatic TICs. In silico pathway analysis followed by candidate-based RNA interference mediated loss-of-function analysis revealed a critical role of S100A8, S100A9, and LGALS3BP as molecular determinants of TIC proliferation, migration, and in vivo tumor growth. Our study highlights the power of combining unbiased proteomics with focused gene expression and functional analyses for the identification of novel key regulators of TICs, an approach that warrants further application to identify proteins and pathways amenable to drug targeting.
PXD019203	32503840	Characterization of SETD3 methyltransferase-mediated protein methionine methylation. 	Actin Methionine Methylation HPLC-MS/MS analysis	actin methionine methylation	Most characterized protein methylation events encompass arginine and lysine N-methylation, and only a few cases of protein methionine thiomethylation have been reported. Newly discovered oncohistone mutations include lysine-to-methionine substitutions at positions 27 and 36 of histone H3.3. In these instances, the methionine substitution localizes to the active-site pocket of the corresponding histone lysine methyltransferase, thereby inhibiting the respective transmethylation activity. SET domain-containing 3 (SETD3) is a protein (i.e. actin) histidine methyltransferase. Here, we generated an actin variant in which the histidine target of SETD3 was substituted with methionine. As for previously characterized histone SET domain proteins, the methionine substitution substantially (76-fold) increased binding affinity for SETD3 and inhibited SETD3 activity on histidine. Unexpectedly, SETD3 was active on the substituted methionine, generating S-methylmethionine in the context of actin peptide. The ternary structure of SETD3 in complex with the methionine-containing actin peptide at 1.9 Aa resolution revealed that the hydrophobic thioether side chain is packed by the aromatic rings of Tyr(312) and Trp(273), as well as the hydrocarbon side chain of Ile(310) Our results suggest that placing methionine properly in the active site-within close proximity to and in line with the incoming methyl group of SAM-would allow some SET domain proteins to selectively methylate methionine in proteins.
PXD012631	32503941	Proteomic analysis reveals the direct recruitment of intrinsically disordered regions to stress granules in S. cerevisiae. 	Yeast Heatshock SILAC LC-MSMS .	heatshock, stress granule	Stress granules (SGs) are stress-induced membraneless condensates that store non-translating mRNA and stalled translation initiation complexes. Although metazoan SGs are dynamic compartments where proteins can rapidly exchange with their surroundings, yeast SGs seem largely static. To gain a better understanding of yeast SGs, we identified proteins that sediment after heat shock using mass spectrometry. Proteins that sediment upon heat shock are biased toward a subset of abundant proteins that are significantly enriched in intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). Heat-induced SG localization of over 80 proteins were confirmed using microscopy, including 32 proteins not previously known to localize to SGs. We found that several IDRs were sufficient to mediate SG recruitment. Moreover, the dynamic exchange of IDRs can be observed using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching, whereas other components remain immobile. Lastly, we showed that the IDR of the Ubp3 deubiquitinase was critical for yeast SG formation. This work shows that IDRs can be sufficient for SG incorporation, can remain dynamic in vitrified SGs, and can play an important role in cellular compartmentalization upon stress.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD016248	32504001	Combining proteogenomics and metaproteomics for deep taxonomic and functional characterization of microbiomes from a non-sequenced host. 	Metaproteomics on the digestive tract from Gammarus fossarum, an environmentally relevant sentinel.	amphipod, bacteria, bioinformatics, fungi, gut, metaproteomics, microbiome, non-model host, proteogenomics	Metaproteomics of gut microbiomes from animal hosts lacking a reference genome is challenging. Here we describe a strategy combining high-resolution metaproteomics and host RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) with generalist database searching to survey the digestive tract of Gammarus fossarum, a small crustacean used as a sentinel species in ecotoxicology. This approach provides a deep insight into the full range of biomasses and metabolic activities of the holobiont components, and differentiates between the intestine and hepatopancreatic caecum.
PXD019062	32504010	Arginine GlcNAcylation of Rab small GTPases by the pathogen Salmonella Typhimurium. 	Arginine GlcNAcylation of Rab small GTPases by the  pathogen Salmonella Typhimurium	Arginine GlcNAcylation, Rab small GTPases, SseK	Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, an intracellular Gram-negative bacterial pathogen, employs two type III secretion systems to deliver virulence effector proteins to host cells. One such effector, SseK3, is a Golgi-targeting arginine GlcNAc transferase. Here, we show that SseK3 colocalizes with cis-Golgi via lipid binding. Arg-GlcNAc-omics profiling reveals that SseK3 modifies Rab1 and some phylogenetically related Rab GTPases. These modifications are dependent on C-termini of Rabs but independent of the GTP- or GDP-bound forms. Arginine GlcNAcylation occurs in the switch II region and the third alpha-helix and severely disturbs the function of Rab1. The arginine GlcNAc transferase activity of SseK3 is required for the replication of Salmonella in RAW264.7 macrophages and bacterial virulence in the mouse model of Salmonella infection. Therefore, this SseK3 mechanism of action represents a new understanding of the strategy adopted by Salmonella to target host trafficking systems.
PXD014172	32508098	Deep Proteome Profiling of Semen of Indian Indigenous Malnad Gidda (Bos indicus) Cattle. 	Mapping proteome of seminal plasma and spermatozoa of Indian Indigenous Malnad Gidda (Bos indicus) cattle	Malnad Gidda, Protein Profiling, SCX, Seminal Plasma, Spermatozoa, bRPLC	Malnad Gidda is a dwarf indigenous cattle breed of India, which is known for its uniqueness of calving every year under a low input grazing system of rearing. Bulls of Malnad Gidda are known to be highly fertile even in stress conditions. However, the proteomic profiling of semen of this breed has not been investigated so far, which might provide a platform for a better understanding of its semen quality and male fertility. Therefore, we made an effort to characterize and quantify the proteome of seminal plasma and spermatozoa components of Malnad Gidda semen using a high-resolution mass spectrometry platform. We identified 2814 proteins from spermatozoa and 1974 proteins from the seminal plasma of this breed. Furthermore, >90% of proteins from each fraction were quantified using the intensity-based absolute quantification. We observed signal peptides in 33% of seminal plasma proteins, indicating their secretory nature. Gene Ontology analysis revealed their involvement in cytoskeletal assembly associated with sperm head, sperm motility, acrosome reaction, seminal plasma binding, and spermatogenesis-associated protein. An in-depth proteome profiling of semen of a unique indigenous cattle breed of India was carried out. Our findings could provide a reference for further studies on sperm functions, semen quality, and reproductive health of Bos indicus cattle. Mass spectrometry data generated in this study is deposited and publicly made available through ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD014172.
PXD017340	32508734	Serum-Based Proteomics Reveals Lipid Metabolic and Immunoregulatory Dysregulation in Cervical Artery Dissection With Stroke. 	Serum-based proteomics reveals lipid metabolic and immunoregulatory dysregulation in cervical artery dissection with stroke	Cervical artery dissection, Immunoregulation, Lipid metabolism, Serum, Stroke	Cervical artery dissection (CAD) is an important causal factor for stroke in young and middle-aged individuals and presents a great burden to the individual stroke victim. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying CAD remain unknown. Here, an iTRAQ (isobaric tagging for relative and absolute quantitation)-based quantitative proteomic approach was performed, to identify differentially expressed proteins in serum samples obtained from spontaneous CAD and non-CAD ischemic stroke subjects. Differential protein expression was analyzed for Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway overrepresentation, and six differential proteins were selected for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay validation. Through KEGG analysis, the significantly differentiated proteins were primarily involved in immunoregulation, blood coagulation, and lipid metabolism. For the first time, differential expressions of apolipoprotein B, apolipoprotein C-I, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, fibulin-1, and ficolin-2 were confirmed as being significantly upregulated in CAD as compared to non-CAD ischemic stroke subjects. In conclusion, proteomic analysis reveals that early perturbation of immunoregulation and lipid metabolism may be involved in the pathophysiology of CAD. Specifically, the panel of six proteins identified is promising as serum-based biomarkers for the detection of increased CAD risk in stroke subjects.
PXD017673	32510216	MealTime-MS: A Machine Learning-Guided Real-Time Mass Spectrometry Analysis for Protein Identification and Efficient Dynamic Exclusion. 	MealTime-MS: A Machine Learning-Guided Real-Time Mass Spectrometry Analysis for Proteomics	Cell Line, HEK293	Mass spectrometry-based proteomics technologies are prime methods for the high-throughput identification of proteins in complex biological samples. Nevertheless, there are still technical limitations that hinder the ability of mass spectrometry to identify low abundance proteins in complex samples. Characterizing such proteins is essential to provide a comprehensive understanding of the biological processes taking place in cells and tissues. Still today, most mass spectrometry-based proteomics approaches use a data-dependent acquisition strategy, which favors the collection of mass spectra from proteins of higher abundance. Since the computational identification of proteins from proteomics data is typically performed after mass spectrometry analysis, large numbers of mass spectra are typically redundantly acquired from the same abundant proteins, and little to no mass spectra are acquired for proteins of lower abundance. We therefore propose a novel supervised learning algorithm, MealTime-MS, that identifies proteins in real-time as mass spectrometry data are acquired and prevents further data collection from confidently identified proteins to ultimately free mass spectrometry resources to improve the identification sensitivity of low abundance proteins. We use real-time simulations of a previously performed mass spectrometry analysis of a HEK293 cell lysate to show that our approach can identify 92.1% of the proteins detected in the experiment using 66.2% of the MS2 spectra. We also demonstrate that our approach outperforms a previously proposed method, is sufficiently fast for real-time mass spectrometry analysis, and is flexible. Finally, MealTime-MS' efficient usage of mass spectrometry resources will provide a more comprehensive characterization of proteomes in complex samples.
PXD008235	32510229	Impact of the Identification Strategy on the Reproducibility of the DDA and DIA Results. 	Impact of the identification strategy on reproducibility of DDA and DIA results	DIA, reproducibility, spectral library	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) is a promising technique for the proteomic analysis of complex protein samples. A number of studies have claimed that DIA experiments are more reproducible than data-dependent acquisition (DDA), but these claims are unsubstantiated since different data analysis methods are used in the two methods. Data analysis in most DIA workflows depends on spectral library searches, whereas DDA typically employs sequence database searches. In this study, we examined the reproducibility of the DIA and DDA results using both sequence database and spectral library search. The comparison was first performed using a cell lysate and then extended to an interactome study. Protein overlap among the technical replicates in both DDA and DIA experiments was 30% higher with library-based identifications than with sequence database identifications. The reproducibility of quantification was also improved with library search compared to database search, with the mean of the coefficient of variation decreasing more than 30% and a reduction in the number of missing values of more than 35%. Our results show that regardless of the acquisition method, higher identification and quantification reproducibility is observed when library search was used.
PXD015274	32510591	Delta(9) -Tetrahydrocannabinolic acid alleviates collagen-induced arthritis: Role of PPARgamma and CB1 receptors. 	Collagen induced arthritis plasma proteomic analysis	Arthritis, CIA, SWATH, plasma	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Delta(9) -Tetrahydrocannabinolic acid (Delta(9) -THCA-A), the precursor of Delta(9) -THC, is a non-psychotropic phytocannabinoid that shows PPARgamma agonist activity. Here, we investigated the ability of Delta(9) -THCA-A to modulate the classic cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors and evaluated its anti-arthritis activity in vitro and in vivo. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Cannabinoid receptors binding and intrinsic activity, as well as their downstream signalling, were analysed in vitro and in silico. The anti-arthritis properties of Delta(9) -THCA-A were studied in human chondrocytes and in the murine model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). Plasma disease biomarkers were identified by LC-MS/MS based on proteomic and elisa assays. KEY RESULTS: Functional and docking analyses showed that Delta(9) -THCA-A can act as an orthosteric CB1 receptor agonist and also as a positive allosteric modulator in the presence of CP-55,940. Also, Delta(9) -THCA-A seemed to be an inverse agonist for CB2 receptors. In vivo, Delta(9) -THCA-A reduced arthritis in CIA mice, preventing the infiltration of inflammatory cells, synovium hyperplasia, and cartilage damage. Furthermore, Delta(9) -THCA-A inhibited expression of inflammatory and catabolic genes on knee joints. The anti-arthritic effect of Delta(9) -THCA-A was blocked by either SR141716 or T0070907. Analysis of plasma biomarkers, and determination of cytokines and anti-collagen antibodies confirmed that Delta(9) -THCA-A mediated its activity mainly through PPARgamma and CB1 receptor pathways. CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Delta(9) -THCA-A modulates CB1 receptors through the orthosteric and allosteric binding sites. In addition, Delta(9) -THCA-A exerts anti-arthritis activity through CB1 receptors and PPARgamma pathways, highlighting its potential for the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.
PXD014390	32510927	Mass Spectrometric Mapping of Glycoproteins Modified by Tn-Antigen Using Solid-Phase Capture and Enzymatic Release. 	EXoO-Tn: Tag-n-Map the Tn Antigen in the Human Proteome	EXoO-Tn, O-GalNAc, Tn antigen, glycoproteomics	Tn-antigen (Tn), a single N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) monosaccharide attached to protein Ser/Thr residues, is found on most cancer yet rarely detected in adult normal tissues as reported in previous studies, featuring it as one of the most distinctive signatures of cancer. Although it is important in cancer, Tn modified glycoproteins are not entirely clear owing to the lack of a suitable method. Knowing the Tn-glycosylated proteins and glycosylation sites are essential to the prevention, diagnosis, and therapy of cancer associated with the expression of Tn. Here, we introduce a method named EXoO-Tn for large-scale mapping of Tn-glycosylated proteins and glycosylation sites. EXoO-Tn utilizes solid-phase immobilization of proteolytic peptides of proteins, which modifies Tn by glycosyltransferase C1GalT1 with isotopically labeled UDP-Gal((13)C6), to tag and convert Tn to Gal((13)C6)-Tn, which gives rise to a unique glycan mass. The exquisite Gal((13)C6) modified Tn are then recognized by a human-gut-bacterial enzyme, OpeRATOR, and released at the N-termini of the Gal((13)C6)-Tn-occupied Ser/Thr residues from immobilized peptides to yield site-containing glycopeptides. The effectiveness of EXoO-Tn was benchmarked by analyzing Jurkat cells, where 947 Tn-glycosylation sites from 480 glycoproteins were mapped. The EXoO-Tn was further applied to the analysis of pancreatic cancer sera, where Tn-glycoproteins were identified. Given the significance of Tn in cancer, EXoO-Tn is anticipated to have broad translational and clinical utilities.
PXD018117	32511329	A SARS-CoV-2-Human Protein-Protein Interaction Map Reveals Drug Targets and Potential Drug-Repurposing. 	A SARS-CoV-2-Human Protein-Protein Interaction Map Reveals Drug Targets and Potential Drug-Purposing	COVID-19, Covid-19, PPI, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, coronavirus	An outbreak of the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the causative agent of COVID-19 respiratory disease, has infected over 290,000 people since the end of 2019, killed over 12,000, and caused worldwide social and economic disruption (1,2) . There are currently no antiviral drugs with proven efficacy nor are there vaccines for its prevention. Unfortunately, the scientific community has little knowledge of the molecular details of SARS-CoV-2 infection. To illuminate this, we cloned, tagged and expressed 26 of the 29 viral proteins in human cells and identified the human proteins physically associated with each using affinity-purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS), which identified 332 high confidence SARS-CoV-2-human protein-protein interactions (PPIs). Among these, we identify 66 druggable human proteins or host factors targeted by 69 existing FDA-approved drugs, drugs in clinical trials and/or preclinical compounds, that we are currently evaluating for efficacy in live SARS-CoV-2 infection assays. The identification of host dependency factors mediating virus infection may provide key insights into effective molecular targets for developing broadly acting antiviral therapeutics against SARS-CoV-2 and other deadly coronavirus strains.
PXD017840	32511785	Multiple pathways coordinate assembly of human mitochondrial complex IV and stabilization of respiratory supercomplexes. 	Complexome profiling of human cybrids laking mitochondrial genes Cox1 or Cox2	complexome profiling, cybrids, mitochondria, supercomplexes	Mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I, III, and IV can associate into larger structures termed supercomplexes or respirasomes, thereby generating structural interdependences among the individual complexes yet to be understood. In patients, nonsense mutations in complex IV subunit genes cause severe encephalomyopathies randomly associated with pleiotropic complex I defects. Using complexome profiling and biochemical analyses, we have explored the structural rearrangements of the respiratory chain in human cell lines depleted of the catalytic complex IV subunit COX1 or COX2. In the absence of a functional complex IV holoenzyme, several supercomplex I+III2 species coexist, which differ in their content of COX subunits and COX7A2L/HIGD2A assembly factors. The incorporation of an atypical COX1-HIGD2A submodule attenuates supercomplex I+III2 turnover rate, indicating an unexpected molecular adaptation for supercomplexes stabilization that relies on the presence of COX1 independently of holo-complex IV formation. Our data set the basis for complex I structural dependence on complex IV, revealing the co-existence of alternative pathways for the biogenesis of "supercomplex-associated" versus individual complex IV, which could determine physiological adaptations under different stress and disease scenarios.
PXD019042	32511795	SAMHD1-mediated dNTP degradation is required for efficient DNA repair during antibody class switch recombination. 	Identification of immunoglobulin switch (S) region binding proteins by insertional ChIP (iChIP)	CSR, Immunoglobulin locus, Recombination, SAMHD1, SILAC	Sterile alpha motif and histidine-aspartic acid domain-containing protein 1 (SAMHD1), a dNTP triphosphohydrolase, regulates the levels of cellular dNTPs through their hydrolysis. SAMHD1 protects cells from invading viruses that depend on dNTPs to replicate and is frequently mutated in cancers and Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome, a hereditary autoimmune encephalopathy. We discovered that SAMHD1 localizes at the immunoglobulin (Ig) switch region, and serves as a novel DNA repair regulator of Ig class switch recombination (CSR). Depletion of SAMHD1 impaired not only CSR but also IgH/c-Myc translocation. Consistently, we could inhibit these two processes by elevating the cellular nucleotide pool. A high frequency of nucleotide insertion at the break-point junctions is a notable feature in SAMHD1 deficiency during activation-induced cytidine deaminase-mediated genomic instability. Interestingly, CSR induced by staggered but not blunt, double-stranded DNA breaks was impaired by SAMHD1 depletion, which was accompanied by enhanced nucleotide insertions at recombination junctions. We propose that SAMHD1-mediated dNTP balance regulates dNTP-sensitive DNA end-processing enzyme and promotes CSR and aberrant genomic rearrangements by suppressing the insertional DNA repair pathway.
PXD018359	32512867	The Progression of Acute Myeloid Leukemia from First Diagnosis to Chemoresistant Relapse: A Comparison of Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiles. 	7 paired AML Diagnosis vs Relapse patient samples	acute myeloid leukemia relapase	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematological malignancy. Nearly 50% of the patients who receive the most intensive treatment develop chemoresistant leukemia relapse. Although the leukemogenic events leading to relapse seem to differ between patients (i.e., regrowth from a clone detected at first diagnosis, progression from the original leukemic or preleukemic stem cells), a common characteristic of relapsed AML is increased chemoresistance. The aim of the present study was to investigate at the proteomic level whether leukemic cells from relapsed patients present overlapping molecular mechanisms that contribute to this chemoresistance. We used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to compare the proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiles of AML cells derived from seven patients at the time of first diagnosis and at first relapse. At the time of first relapse, AML cells were characterized by increased levels of proteins important for various mitochondrial functions, such as mitochondrial ribosomal subunit proteins (MRPL21, MRPS37) and proteins for RNA processing (DHX37, RNA helicase; RPP40, ribonuclease P component), DNA repair (ERCC3, DNA repair factor IIH helicase; GTF2F1, general transcription factor), and cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) activity. The levels of several cytoskeletal proteins (MYH14/MYL6/MYL12A, myosin chains; VCL, vinculin) as well as of proteins involved in vesicular trafficking/secretion and cell adhesion (ITGAX, integrin alpha-X; CD36, platelet glycoprotein 4; SLC2A3, solute carrier family 2) were decreased in relapsed cells. Our study introduces new targetable proteins that might direct therapeutic strategies to decrease chemoresistance in relapsed AML.
PXD019479	32513775	RBMS1 Suppresses Colon Cancer Metastasis through Targeted Stabilization of Its mRNA Regulon. 	Interactome analysis of human RBMS1 protein in SW480 cells.	IP-MS, RBMS1	Identifying master regulators that drive pathologic gene expression is a key challenge in precision oncology. Here, we have developed an analytic framework, named PRADA, that identifies oncogenic RNA-binding proteins through the systematic detection of coordinated changes in their target regulons. Application of this approach to data collected from clinical samples, patient-derived xenografts, and cell line models of colon cancer metastasis revealed the RNA-binding protein RBMS1 as a suppressor of colon cancer progression. We observed that silencing RBMS1 results in increased metastatic capacity in xenograft mouse models, and that restoring its expression blunts metastatic liver colonization. We have found that RBMS1 functions as a posttranscriptional regulator of RNA stability by directly binding its target mRNAs. Together, our findings establish a role for RBMS1 as a previously unknown regulator of RNA stability and as a suppressor of colon cancer metastasis with clinical utility for risk stratification of patients. SIGNIFICANCE: By applying a new analytic approach to transcriptomic data from clinical samples and models of colon cancer progression, we have identified RBMS1 as a suppressor of metastasis and as a post-transcriptional regulator of RNA stability. Notably, RBMS1 silencing and downregulation of its targets are negatively associated with patient survival.See related commentary by Carter, p. 1261.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1241.
PXD019248	32513971	NAP1-RELATED PROTEIN1 and 2 negatively regulate H2A.Z abundance in chromatin in Arabidopsis. 	NAP1-RELATED PROTEIN1 and 2 negatively regulate H2A.Z abundance in chromatin in Arabidopsis		In eukaryotes, DNA wraps around histones to form nucleosomes, which are compacted into chromatin. DNA-templated processes, including transcription, require chromatin disassembly and reassembly mediated by histone chaperones. Additionally, distinct histone variants can replace core histones to regulate chromatin structure and function. Although replacement of H2A with the evolutionarily conserved H2A.Z via the SWR1 histone chaperone complex has been extensively studied, in plants little is known about how a reduction of H2A.Z levels can be achieved. Here, we show that NRP proteins cause a decrease of H2A.Z-containing nucleosomes in Arabidopsis under standard growing conditions. nrp1-1 nrp2-2 double mutants show an over-accumulation of H2A.Z genome-wide, especially at heterochromatic regions normally H2A.Z-depleted in wild-type plants. Our work suggests that NRP proteins regulate gene expression by counteracting SWR1, thereby preventing excessive accumulation of H2A.Z.
PXD016086	32514074	Spatiotemporal proteomics uncovers cathepsin-dependent macrophage cell death during Salmonella infection. 	Thermal proteome profiling in of CA-074me	Salmonella, cathepsin inhibitor, target engagement, thermal proteome profiling	The interplay between host and pathogen relies heavily on rapid protein synthesis and accurate protein targeting to ensure pathogen destruction. To gain insight into this dynamic interface, we combined Click chemistry with pulsed stable isotope labelling of amino acids in cell culture to quantify the host proteome response during macrophage infection with the intracellular bacterial pathogen Salmonella enterica Typhimurium. We monitored newly synthesized proteins across different host cell compartments and infection stages. Within this rich resource, we detected aberrant trafficking of lysosomal proteases to the extracellular space and the nucleus. We verified that active cathepsins re-traffic to the nucleus and that these are linked to cell death. Pharmacological cathepsin inhibition and nuclear targeting of a cellular cathepsin inhibitor (stefin B) suppressed S. enterica Typhimurium-induced cell death. We demonstrate that cathepsin activity is required for pyroptotic cell death via the non-canonical inflammasome, and that lipopolysaccharide transfection into the host cytoplasm is sufficient to trigger active cathepsin accumulation in the host nucleus and cathepsin-dependent cell death. Finally, cathepsin inhibition reduced gasdermin D expression, thus revealing an unexpected role for cathepsin activity in non-canonical inflammasome regulation. Overall, our study illustrates how resolution of host proteome dynamics during infection can drive the discovery of biological mechanisms at the host-microbe interface.
PXD016254	32514175	Chemical RNA digestion enables robust RNA-binding site mapping at single amino acid resolution. 	RBS-ID: Comprehensive identification of RNA-binding sites at single amino acid-resolution	RBP. RBS, RNA	RNA-binding sites (RBSs) can be identified by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry analyses of the protein-RNA conjugates created by crosslinking, but RBS mapping remains highly challenging due to the complexity of the formed RNA adducts. Here, we introduce RBS-ID, a method that uses hydrofluoride to fully cleave RNA into mono-nucleosides, thereby minimizing the search space to drastically enhance coverage and to reach single amino acid resolution. Moreover, the simple mono-nucleoside adducts offer a confident and quantitative measure of direct RNA-protein interaction. Using RBS-ID, we profiled ~2,000 human RBSs and probed Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 to discover residues important for genome editing.
PXD016657	32516863	First clinical and myopathological description of a myofibrillar myopathy with congenital onset and homozygous mutation in FLNC. 	First Clinical and Myopathological Description of a Myofibrillar Myopathy with Congenital Onset and Homozygous Mutation in FLNC	FLNC, Filamin C, congenital myopathy, myofibrillar myopathy, proteomic signature, recessive inheritance	Filamin C (encoded by the FLNC gene) is a large actin-cross-linking protein involved in shaping the actin cytoskeleton in response to signaling events both at the sarcolemma and at myofibrillar Z-discs of cross-striated muscle cells. Multiple mutations in FLNC are associated with myofibrillar myopathies of autosomal-dominant inheritance. Here, we describe for the first time a boy with congenital onset of generalized muscular hypotonia and muscular weakness, delayed motor development but no cardiac involvement associated with a homozygous FLNC mutation c.1325C>G (p.Pro442Arg). We performed ultramorphological, proteomic, and functional investigations as well as immunological studies of known marker proteins for dominant filaminopathies. We show that the mutant protein is expressed in similar quantities as the wild-type variant in control skeletal muscle fibers. The proteomic signature of quadriceps muscle is altered and ultrastructural perturbations are evident. Moreover, filaminopathy marker proteins are comparable both in our homozygous and a dominant control case (c.5161delG). Biochemical investigations demonstrate that the recombinant mutant protein is less stable and more prone to degradation by proteolytic enzymes than the wild-type variant. The unusual congenital presentation of the disease clearly demonstrates that homozygosity for mutations in FLNC severely aggravates the phenotype.
PXD012010	32517296	Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals Cell Alignment and Mitochondrial Length Change under Cyclic Stretching in Lung Cells. 	Phosphoproteome of cyclic stretch A549 and IMR-90	Lund cancer, Lung fibroblast, Phosphoproteome, cyclic stretch	Lung cancer is a leading cause of death. Most previous studies have been based on traditional cell-culturing methods. However, lung cells are periodically subjected to mechanical forces during breathing. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the cyclic stretching induced in lung cells may be important for lung cancer therapy. Here, we applied cyclic stretching to stimulate the continual contraction that is present under physiological conditions in lung cells. We first uncovered the stretching-induced phosphoproteome in lung cancer cell line A549 and fibroblast cell line IMR-90. We identified 2048 and 2604 phosphosites corresponding to 837 and 1008 phosphoproteins in A549 and IMR-90, respectively. Furthermore, we combined our phosphoproteomics and public gene expression data to identify the biological functions in response to cyclic stretching. Interestingly, cytoskeletal and mitochondrial reorganization were enriched. We further used cell imaging analysis to validate the profiling results and found that this physical force changed cell alignment and mitochondrial length. This study not only reveals the molecular mechanism of cyclic stretching but also provides evidence that cell stretching causes cellular rearrangement and mitochondrial length change.
PXD016230	32518069	Depolarization-dependent Induction of Site-specific Changes in Sialylation on N-linked Glycoproteins in Rat Nerve Terminals. 	Synaptic transmission induces site specific changes in sialylation on N-linked glycoproteins in nerve terminals	N-glycosylation, Rat, Sialic acid, Synaptosomes, synaptic transmission	Synaptic transmission leading to release of neurotransmitters in the nervous system is a fast and highly dynamic process. Previously, protein interaction and phosphorylation have been thought to be the main regulators of synaptic transmission. Here we show that sialylation of N-linked glycosylation is a novel potential modulator of neurotransmitter release mechanisms by investigating depolarization-dependent changes of formerly sialylated N-linked glycopeptides. We suggest that negatively charged sialic acids can be modulated, similarly to phosphorylation, by the action of sialyltransferases and sialidases thereby changing local structure and function of membrane glycoproteins. We characterized site-specific alteration in sialylation on N-linked glycoproteins in isolated rat nerve terminals after brief depolarization using quantitative sialiomics. We identified 1965 formerly sialylated N-linked glycosites in synaptic proteins and found that the abundances of 430 glycosites changed after 5 s depolarization. We observed changes on essential synaptic proteins such as synaptic vesicle proteins, ion channels and transporters, neurotransmitter receptors and cell adhesion molecules. This study is to our knowledge the first to describe ultra-fast site-specific modulation of the sialiome after brief stimulation of a biological system.
PXD011180	32518184	Tombusvirus p19 Captures RNase III-Cleaved Double-Stranded RNAs Formed by Overlapping Sense and Antisense Transcripts in Escherichia coli. 	Proteomic profiling of RNase III-dependent asRNA regulation in E. coli	Antisense RNAs, E. coli, RNase III	Antisense transcription is widespread in bacteria. By base pairing with overlapping sense RNAs, antisense RNAs (asRNA) can form double-stranded RNAs (dsRNA), which are cleaved by RNase III, a dsRNA endoribonuclease. The ectopic expression of plant Tombusvirus p19 in Escherichia coli stabilizes ~21-nucleotide (nt) dsRNA RNase III decay intermediates, which enabled us to characterize otherwise highly unstable asRNA by deep sequencing of p19-captured dsRNA. RNase III-produced small dsRNA were formed at most bacterial genes in the bacterial genome and in a plasmid. We classified the types of asRNA in genomic clusters producing the most abundant p19-captured dsRNA and confirmed RNase III regulation of asRNA and sense RNA decay at three type I toxin-antitoxin loci and at a coding gene, rsd Furthermore, we provide potential evidence for the RNase III-dependent regulation of CspD protein by asRNA. The analysis of p19-captured dsRNA revealed an RNase III sequence preference for AU-rich sequences 3 nucleotides on either side of the cleavage sites and for GC-rich sequences in the 2-nt overhangs. Unexpectedly, GC-rich sequences were enriched in the middle section of p19-captured dsRNA, suggesting some unexpected sequence bias in p19 protein binding. Nonetheless, the ectopic expression of p19 is a sensitive method for identifying antisense transcripts and RNase III cleavage sites in dsRNA formed by overlapping sense and antisense transcripts in bacteria.
PXD013659	32518190	The Novel J-Domain Protein Mrj1 Is Required for Mitochondrial Respiration and Virulence in Cryptococcus neoformans. 	Mrj1HA AP-MS in Cryptococcus neoformans	Cryptococcus neoformans	The opportunistic fungal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans must adapt to the mammalian environment to establish an infection. Proteins facilitating adaptation to novel environments, such as chaperones, may be required for virulence. In this study, we identified a novel mitochondrial co-chaperone, Mrj1 (mitochondrial respiration J-domain protein 1), necessary for virulence in C. neoformans The mrj1Delta and J-domain-inactivated mutants had general growth defects at both routine laboratory and human body temperatures and were deficient in the major virulence factor of capsule elaboration. The latter phenotype was associated with cell wall changes and increased capsular polysaccharide shedding. Accordingly, the mrj1Delta mutant was avirulent in a murine model of cryptococcosis. Mrj1 has a mitochondrial localization and co-immunoprecipitated with Qcr2, a core component of complex III of the electron transport chain. The mrj1 mutants were deficient in mitochondrial functions, including growth on alternative carbon sources, growth without iron, and mitochondrial polarization. They were also insensitive to complex III inhibitors and hypersensitive to an alternative oxidase (AOX) inhibitor, suggesting that Mrj1 functions in respiration. In support of this conclusion, mrj1 mutants also had elevated basal oxygen consumption rates which were completely abolished by the addition of the AOX inhibitor, confirming that Mrj1 is required for mitochondrial respiration through complexes III and IV. Furthermore, inhibition of complex III phenocopied the capsule and cell wall defects of the mrj1 mutants. Taken together, these results indicate that Mrj1 is required for normal mitochondrial respiration, a key aspect of adaptation to the host environment and virulence.IMPORTANCECryptococcus neoformans is the causative agent of cryptococcal meningitis, a disease responsible for ~15% of all HIV-related deaths. Unfortunately, development of antifungal drugs is challenging because potential targets are conserved between humans and C. neoformans In this context, we characterized a unique J-domain protein, Mrj1, which lacks orthologs in humans. We showed that Mrj1 was required for normal mitochondrial respiration and that mutants lacking Mrj1 were deficient in growth, capsule elaboration, and virulence. Furthermore, we were able to phenocopy the defects in growth and capsule elaboration by inhibiting respiration. This result suggests that the role of Mrj1 in mitochondrial function was responsible for the observed virulence defects and reinforces the importance of mitochondria to fungal pathogenesis. Mitochondria are difficult to target, as their function is also key to human cells; however, Mrj1 presents an opportunity to target a unique fungal protein required for mitochondrial function and virulence in C. neoformans.
PXD019058	32518240	Ribosome engineering reveals the importance of 5S rRNA autonomy for ribosome assembly. 	Ribosome protein composition in wt and 23S+5S rRNA ribosomes	Mass-spectrometry, Ribosome, proteins	5S rRNA is an indispensable component of cytoplasmic ribosomes in all species. The functions of 5S rRNA and the reasons for its evolutionary preservation as an independent molecule remain unclear. Here we used ribosome engineering to investigate whether 5S rRNA autonomy is critical for ribosome function and cell survival. By linking circularly permutated 5S rRNA with 23S rRNA we generated a bacterial strain devoid of free 5S rRNA. Viability of the engineered cells demonstrates that autonomous 5S rRNA is dispensable for cell growth under standard conditions and is unlikely to have essential functions outside the ribosome. The fully assembled ribosomes carrying 23S-5S rRNA are highly active in translation. However, the engineered cells accumulate aberrant 50S subunits unable to form stable 70S ribosomes. Cryo-EM analysis revealed a malformed peptidyl transferase center in the misassembled 50S subunits. Our results argue that the autonomy of 5S rRNA is preserved due to its role in ribosome biogenesis.
PXD018205	32518324	Restriction of essential amino acids dictates the systemic metabolic response to dietary protein dilution. 	Restriction of essential amino acids dictates the systemic response to dietary protein dilution	Thr biosynthetic, essential amino acids	Dietary protein dilution (DPD) promotes metabolic-remodelling and -health but the precise nutritional components driving this response remain elusive. Here, by mimicking amino acid (AA) supply from a casein-based diet, we demonstrate that restriction of dietary essential AA (EAA), but not non-EAA, drives the systemic metabolic response to total AA deprivation; independent from dietary carbohydrate supply. Furthermore, systemic deprivation of threonine and tryptophan, independent of total AA supply, are both adequate and necessary to confer the systemic metabolic response to both diet, and genetic AA-transport loss, driven AA restriction. Dietary threonine restriction (DTR) retards the development of obesity-associated metabolic dysfunction. Liver-derived fibroblast growth factor 21 is required for the metabolic remodelling with DTR. Strikingly, hepatocyte-selective establishment of threonine biosynthetic capacity reverses the systemic metabolic response to DTR. Taken together, our studies of mice demonstrate that the restriction of EAA are sufficient and necessary to confer the systemic metabolic effects of DPD.
PXD016620	32518534	Proteomic analysis of human synovial fluid reveals potential diagnostic biomarkers for ankylosing spondylitis. 	Human synovial fluid proteomics reveals potential early-diagnostic biomarkers for ankylosing spondylitis	Ankylosing spondylitis, Biomarker, Synovial fluid	BACKGROUND: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease affecting the axial skeleton and peripheral joints. The etiology of this disease remains poorly understood, but interactions between genetic and environmental factors have been implicated. The present study identified differentially expressed proteins in the synovial fluid (SF) of AS patients to elucidate the underlying cause of AS. METHODS: A cohort of 40 SF samples from 10 AS and 10 each of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), gout, and osteoarthritis (OA) patients were analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify differentially expressed proteins specific to AS. The label-free LC-MS/MS results were verified by western blotting. RESULTS: We identified 8 proteins that were > 1.5-fold upregulated in the SF of AS patients compared to that of the disease control groups, including HP, MMP1, MMP3, serum amyloid P-component (APCS), complement factor H-related protein 5 (CFHR5), mannose-binding lectin 2 (MBL2), complement component C9 (C9), and complement C4-A (C4A). CFHR5 and C9 were previously found in serum from AS patients, while APCS was previously found in SF as well as in serum. However, the present study has identified C4A, and MBL2 as potential AS biomarkers for the first time. The expression levels of MMP3, C9, and CFHR5 were verified in AS SF using western blotting. CONCLUSION: We performed quantitative comparative proteomic analysis using by LC-MS/MS of the SF from four disease states: RA, gout, and OA. This systematic comparison revealed novel differentially expressed proteins in AS SF, as well as two previously reported candidate biomarkers. We further verified the expression of MMP3, C9 and CFHR5 by western blot. These proteins may serve as diagnostic or prognostic biomarkers in patients with AS, and may thus improve the clinical outcomes of this serious disease.
PXD010015	32518694	Modulation of proteomic and inflammatory signals by Bradykinin in podocytes. 	Proteomic Analysis of Bradykinin Signaling in Podocytes	Bradykinin signaling, Podocyte	Podocyte damage is one of the hallmarks of diabetic nephropathy leading to proteinuria and kidney damage. The underlying mechanisms of podocyte injury are not well defined. Bradykinin (BK) was shown to contribute to diabetic kidney disease. Here, we evaluated the temporal changes in proteome profile and inflammatory signals of podocytes in response to BK (10(-7)M). Protein profile was evaluated by liquid chromatography mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Proteome profile analysis of podocytes treated with BK (10(-7)M) for 3 and 6 h, revealed 61 proteins that were differentially altered compared to unstimulated control podocytes. Pathway enrichment analysis suggested inhibition of cell death pathways, engagement of cytoskeletal elements and activation of inflammatory pathways. One of the inflammatory proteins that was identified to be induced by BK treatment is Prostaglandin (PG) H Synthase-2 (Cyclooxygenase-2, COX-2). In addition, BK significantly induced the production and release of PGE2 and this effect was inhibited by both COX-2 and MEK Kinase inhibitors, demonstrating that the production of PGE2 by BK is mediated via COX-2 and MAPK-dependent mechanisms. These findings provide a global understanding of the effector modulated proteome in response to BK and also reveal BK as an important modulator of inflammation and a potential player in podocyte injury.
PXD019404	32519869	Time- and Dose-Resolved Proteome of PM2.5-Exposure-Induced Lung Injury and Repair in Rats. 	Time- and dose-resolved proteome of PM2.5 exposure in rat model	PM2.5, cytokine, lung	In recent years, airborne fine particulate matter (PM2.5) is drawing more public attention due to its various physicochemical features and causing pathological harm, as proven by epidemiological and clinical studies. However, the mechanism of PM2.5-exposure-induced lung injury has not been fully characterized. Here, we established a PM2.5-induced rat injury model for both short-term and long-term exposures at different concentrations. We employed the Fast-seq technique to profile 6316 proteins and the catTFRE approach to profile 387 transcription factors (TFs) in the lung tissue. In short-term exposure, we elucidated gradually upregulated proteins enriched in response to oxidative stress, phagosome, and the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction pathway. Long-term exposure mainly showed the immune response pathway to be consisting of increased lymphocytes and cytokines. Intriguingly, we found that immune-related proteins were recoverable during short-term exposure. During the process of PM2.5 exposure, upregulated proteins presented dose-dependence in the lung, including stress response at low dose, minor immune response at middle dose, and severe inflammatory response at high dose. This data set provides a rich resource to facilitate the understanding of PM2.5-induced lung damage and repair mechanism.
PXD018215	32521225	DDI2 Is a Ubiquitin-Directed Endoprotease Responsible for Cleavage of Transcription Factor NRF1. 	Human DDI2 is a ubiquitin-directed endo-protease	DDI2, SILAC, ubiquitin	The Ddi1/DDI2 proteins are ubiquitin shuttling factors, implicated in a variety of cellular functions. In addition to ubiquitin-binding and ubiquitin-like domains, they contain a conserved region with similarity to retroviral proteases, but whether and how DDI2 functions as a protease has remained unknown. Here, we show that DDI2 knockout cells are sensitive to proteasome inhibition and accumulate high-molecular weight, ubiquitylated proteins that are poorly degraded by the proteasome. These proteins are targets for the protease activity of purified DDI2. No evidence for DDI2 acting as a de-ubiquitylating enzyme was uncovered, which could suggest that it cleaves the ubiquitylated protein itself. In support of this idea, cleavage of transcription factor NRF1 is known to require DDI2 activity in vivo. We show that DDI2 is indeed capable of cleaving NRF1 in vitro but only when NRF1 protein is highly poly-ubiquitylated. Together, these data suggest that DDI2 is a ubiquitin-directed endoprotease.
PXD013541	32522993	A multi-omics analysis reveals the unfolded protein response regulon and stress-induced resistance to folate-based antimetabolites. 	proteomics analysis of LN308 cell line under treatment with tunicamycin and thapsigargin	DDA, glioblastoma, label-free, shot-gun proteomics	Stress response pathways are critical for cellular homeostasis, promoting survival through adaptive changes in gene expression and metabolism. They play key roles in numerous diseases and are implicated in cancer progression and chemoresistance. However, the underlying mechanisms are only poorly understood. We have employed a multi-omics approach to monitor changes to gene expression after induction of a stress response pathway, the unfolded protein response (UPR), probing in parallel the transcriptome, the proteome, and changes to translation. Stringent filtering reveals the induction of 267 genes, many of which have not previously been implicated in stress response pathways. We experimentally demonstrate that UPR-mediated translational control induces the expression of enzymes involved in a pathway that diverts intermediate metabolites from glycolysis to fuel mitochondrial one-carbon metabolism. Concomitantly, the cells become resistant to the folate-based antimetabolites Methotrexate and Pemetrexed, establishing a direct link between UPR-driven changes to gene expression and resistance to pharmacological treatment.
PXD017352	32523895	Extracellular Vesicle-Contained microRNA of C. elegans as a Tool to Decipher the Molecular Basis of Nematode Parasitism. 	Protein EV contents from C. elegans	Caenorhabditis elegans, LC-MS, extracellular vesicles	Among the fundamental biological processes affected by microRNAs, small regulators of gene expression, a potential role in host-parasite communication is intriguing. We compared the miRNA complement of extracellular vesicles released by the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans in culture to that of other adult parasitic nematodes. Expecting convergent functional roles for secreted miRNAs due to the common parasitic lifestyle of the organisms under investigation, we performed a miRNA sequence analysis as well as target search and pathway enrichment for potential mRNA targets within host immune functions. We found that the parasite miRNA seed sequences were more often identical to those of C. elegans, rather than to those of their hosts. However, we observed that the nematode-secreted miRNA fractions shared more often seed sequences with host miRNAs than those that are not found in the extracellular environment. Development and proliferation of immune cells was predicted to be affected several-fold by nematode miRNA release. In addition, we identified the AGE-RAGE signaling as a convergent targeted pathway by species-specific miRNAs from several parasitic species. We propose a multi-species comparative approach to differentiate those miRNAs that may have critical functions in host modulation, from those that may not. With our simple analysis, we put forward a workflow to study traits of parasitism at the miRNA level. This work will find even more resonance and significance, as an increasing amount of parasite miRNA collections are expected to be produced in the future.
PXD018639	32525278	FBXL4 deficiency increases mitochondrial removal by autophagy. 	Analysis of proteomic changes in Fbxl4 knock-out mouse liver and patient fibroblasts	Fbxl4, Fibroblast, Liver, Mitochondria	Pathogenic variants in FBXL4 cause a severe encephalopathic syndrome associated with mtDNA depletion and deficient oxidative phosphorylation. To gain further insight into the enigmatic pathophysiology caused by FBXL4 deficiency, we generated homozygous Fbxl4 knockout mice and found that they display a predominant perinatal lethality. Surprisingly, the few surviving animals are apparently normal until the age of 8-12 months when they gradually develop signs of mitochondrial dysfunction and weight loss. One-year-old Fbxl4 knockouts show a global reduction in a variety of mitochondrial proteins and mtDNA depletion, whereas lysosomal proteins are upregulated. Fibroblasts from patients with FBXL4 deficiency and human FBXL4 knockout cells also have reduced steady-state levels of mitochondrial proteins that can be attributed to increased mitochondrial turnover. Inhibition of lysosomal function in these cells reverses the mitochondrial phenotype, whereas proteasomal inhibition has no effect. Taken together, the results we present here show that FBXL4 prevents mitochondrial removal via autophagy and that loss of FBXL4 leads to decreased mitochondrial content and mitochondrial disease.
PXD013442	32525733	Intracranial Aneurysm Biomarker Candidates Identified by a Proteome-Wide Study. 	Proteomic analysis of intracranial aneurysm	iTRAQ, subarachnoid haemorrhage, vasospasm	The scientific basis of intracranial aneurysm (IA) formation, its rupture and further development of cerebral vasospasm is incompletely understood. Aberrant protein expression may drive structural alterations of vasculature found in IA. Deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying these events will lead to identification of early detection biomarkers and in turn, improved treatment outcomes. To unravel differential protein expression in three clinical subgroups of IA patients: (1) unruptured aneurysm, (2) ruptured aneurysm without vasospasm, (3) ruptured aneurysm who developed vasospasm, we performed untargeted quantitative proteomic analysis of aneurysm tissue and serum samples from three subgroups of IA patients and control subjects. Candidate molecules were then validated in a larger cohort of patients using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A total of 937 and 294 proteins were identified from aneurysm tissue and serum samples, respectively. Several proteins that are known to maintain structural integrity of vasculature were found to be dysregulated in the context of aneurysm. ORM1, a glycoprotein, was significantly upregulated in both tissue and serum samples of unruptured aneurysm patients. We employed a larger cohort of subjects (n = 26) and validated ORM1 as a potential biomarker for screening of unruptured aneurysms. Samples from ruptured aneurysms with vasospasm showed significant upregulation of MMP9, a protease, compared with ruptured aneurysms without vasospasm. We validated MMP9 as a potential biomarker for vasospasm in a larger cohort (n = 52). This study reports the first global proteomic analysis of the entire clinical spectrum of IA. Furthermore, this study suggests ORM1 and MMP9 as potential biomarkers for unruptured aneurysm and cerebral vasospasm, respectively.
PXD017476	32526036	NAguideR: performing and prioritizing missing value imputations for consistent bottom-up proteomic analyses. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics for nocodazole treated cells measured by Lumos DIA	Cell cycle, DIA, Lumos, Nocodazle, Phosphoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, U2OS cells, benchmarking, immunopeptidomics, machine learning	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative proteomics experiments frequently generate data with missing values, which may profoundly affect downstream analyses. A wide variety of imputation methods have been established to deal with the missing-value issue. To date, however, there is a scarcity of efficient, systematic, and easy-to-handle tools that are tailored for proteomics community. Herein, we developed a user-friendly and powerful stand-alone software, NAguideR, to enable implementation and evaluation of different missing value methods offered by 23 widely used missing-value imputation algorithms. NAguideR further evaluates data imputation results through classic computational criteria and, unprecedentedly, proteomic empirical criteria, such as quantitative consistency between different charge-states of the same peptide, different peptides belonging to the same proteins, and individual proteins participating protein complexes and functional interactions. We applied NAguideR into three label-free proteomic datasets featuring peptide-level, protein-level, and phosphoproteomic variables respectively, all generated by data independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) with substantial biological replicates. The results indicate that NAguideR is able to discriminate the optimal imputation methods that are facilitating DIA-MS experiments over those sub-optimal and low-performance algorithms. NAguideR further provides downloadable tables and figures supporting flexible data analysis and interpretation. NAguideR is freely available at http://www.omicsolution.org/wukong/NAguideR/ and the source code: https://github.com/wangshisheng/NAguideR/.
PXD019374	32526967	Ablation of the miRNA Cluster 24 Has Profound Effects on Extracellular Matrix Protein Abundance in Cartilage. 	Ablation of the miRNA cluster 24 has profound effects on extracellular matrix protein abundance in cartilage	MMP13, Mirc24, PRG4, SOX6, SOX9, articular, cartilage, extracellular matrix, miR-322, miR-503	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate cartilage differentiation and contribute to the onset and progression of joint degeneration. These small RNA molecules may affect extracellular matrix organization (ECM) in cartilage, but for only a few miRNAs has this role been defined in vivo. Previously, we showed that cartilage-specific genetic ablation of the Mirc24 cluster in mice leads to impaired cartilage development due to increased RAF/MEK/ERK pathway activation. Here, we studied the expression of the cluster in cartilage by LacZ reporter gene assays and determined its role for extracellular matrix homeostasis by proteome and immunoblot analysis. The cluster is expressed in prehypertrophic/hypertrophic chondrocytes of the growth plate and we now show that the cluster is also highly expressed in articular cartilage. Cartilage-specific loss of the cluster leads to increased proteoglycan 4 and matrix metallopeptidase 13 levels and decreased aggrecan and collagen X levels in epiphyseal cartilage. Interestingly, these changes are linked to a decrease in SRY-related HMG box-containing (SOX) transcription factors 6 and 9, which regulate ECM production in chondrocytes. Our data suggests that the Mirc24 cluster is important for ECM homoeostasis and the expression of transcriptional regulators of matrix production in cartilage.
PXD019156	32528060	MCM8IP activates the MCM8-9 helicase to promote DNA synthesis and homologous recombination upon DNA damage. 	MCM8IP activates the MCM8-9 helicase to promote DNA synthesis and homologous recombination upon DNA damage	C17orf53, Homologous recombination, MCM8, MCM8IP, MCM9, RPA, cisplatin	Homologous recombination (HR) mediates the error-free repair of DNA double-strand breaks to maintain genomic stability. Here we characterize C17orf53/MCM8IP, an OB-fold containing protein that binds ssDNA, as a DNA repair factor involved in HR. MCM8IP-deficient cells exhibit HR defects, especially in long-tract gene conversion, occurring downstream of RAD51 loading, consistent with a role for MCM8IP in HR-dependent DNA synthesis. Moreover, loss of MCM8IP confers cellular sensitivity to crosslinking agents and PARP inhibition. Importantly, we report that MCM8IP directly associates with MCM8-9, a helicase complex mutated in primary ovarian insufficiency, and RPA1. We additionally show that the interactions of MCM8IP with MCM8-9 and RPA facilitate HR and promote replication fork progression and cellular viability in response to treatment with crosslinking agents. Mechanistically, MCM8IP stimulates the helicase activity of MCM8-9. Collectively, our work identifies MCM8IP as a key regulator of MCM8-9-dependent DNA synthesis during DNA recombination and replication.
PXD017508	32528892	The Pan-Sirtuin Inhibitor MC2494 Regulates Mitochondrial Function in a Leukemia Cell Line. 	The pan-Sirtuin inhibitor MC2494 regulates mitochondrial function in a leukemia cell line	Sirtuins, leukemia, mitochondria, orbitrap Q-Exactive	The involvement of sirtuins (SIRTs) in modulating metabolic and stress response pathways is attracting growing scientific interest. Some SIRT family members are located in mitochondria, dynamic organelles that perform several crucial functions essential for eukaryotic life. Mitochondrial dysfunction has emerged as having a key role in a number of human diseases, including cancer. Here, we investigated mitochondrial damage resulting from treatment with a recently characterized pan-SIRT inhibitor, MC2494. MC2494 was able to block mitochondrial biogenesis and function in terms of ATP synthesis and energy metabolism, suggesting that it might orchestrate cell response to metabolic stress and thereby interfere with cancer promotion and progression. Targeting mitochondrial function could thus be considered a potential anticancer strategy for use in clinical therapy.
PXD012960	32528904	Clinical Proteomics Profiling for Biomarker Identification Among Patients Suffering With Indian Post Kala Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis. 	 Clinical proteomics profiling for biomarker identification  among patients suffering with Indian Post Kala Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis	Circulating immune complexes, Cu, Healthy (P1), Human Proteome Project, Macular (P2), Polymorphic (P3), Post Kala Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), biomarker	Background: Post Kala Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a non-fatal dermal sequel of Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL), affecting individuals worldwide. Available diagnostic tools lack sensitivity and specificity toward identifying macular (MAC) PKDL patients, due to low parasite load in patients' sample. Confirmatory test like punch biopsy are invasive and painful. Considering the rural nature of this disease and the prevailing situation of diagnostic scenario, PKDL patients mostly remains unattended from receiving proper medical care. They in turn act as "mobile parasite reservoir," responsible for VL transmission among healthy individuals (HI). This study aims to identify PKDL disease specific glycated protein biomarkers, utilizing the powerful LC-MS/MS technology, which is the tool of choice to efficiently identify and quantify disease specific protein biomarkers. These identified PKDL disease specific novel glycoproteins could be developed in future as immunochromatographic based assay for efficient case detection. Methodology: Previously our lab had identified importance of glycated (Circulating Immune Complexes) CICs, among PKDL patients. This study aims to further characterize disease specific glycated protein biomarkers, among MAC PKDL patients for both diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of the disease. LC-MS/MS based comparative spectral count analysis of MAC PKDL to polymorphic (POLY) PKDL, HI, and Cured (CR) individuals were performed. Proteins level alterations among all study groups were confirmed by Western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbant Assay (ELISA). Results: Among MAC PKDL patients 43, 60, 90 proteins were altered compared to POLY PKDL, HI, and CR groups, respectively. Filtering for the most significant proteins, Plasminogen (PLG) and Vitronectin (VTN) were identified which promisingly identified MAC PKDL cases. Active surveillance results from endemic districts of West Bengal revealed drastic rise of MAC PKDL cases, alarming the urgency for field adaptive efficient biomarker. Conclusion: This current study aims to establish PLG and VTN as novel diagnostic and prognostic protein biomarker for MAC and POLY PKDL cases management.
PXD000156	32529827	Tryptic Shaving of Staphylococcus aureus Unveils Immunodominant Epitopes on the Bacterial Cell Surface. 	Tryptic striptease of Staphylococcus aureus unveils the cell surface  localization of immunodominant epitopes	Staphylococcus aureus, cellwall, exoproteome, surfacome, virulence factor	The opportunistic pathogen Staphylococcus aureus has become a major threat for human health and well-being by developing resistance to antibiotics and by fast evolution into new lineages that rapidly spread within the healthy human population. This calls for development of active or passive immunization strategies to prevent or treat acute phase infections. Since no such anti-staphylococcal immunization approaches are available for clinical implementation, the present studies were aimed at identifying new leads for their development. For this purpose, we profiled the cell-surface-exposed staphylococcal proteome under infection-mimicking conditions by combining two approaches for "bacterial shaving" with immobilized or soluble trypsin and subsequent mass spectrometry analysis of liberated peptides. In parallel, non-covalently cell-wall-bound proteins extracted with potassium thiocyanate and the exoproteome fraction were analyzed by gel-free proteomics. All data are available through ProteomeXchange accession PXD000156. To pinpoint immunodominant bacterial-surface-exposed epitopes, we screened selected cell-wall-attached proteins of S. aureus for binding of immunoglobulin G from patients who have been challenged by different types of S. aureus due to chronic wound colonization. The combined results of these analyses highlight particular cell-surface-exposed S. aureus proteins with highly immunogenic exposed epitopes as potential targets for development of protective anti-staphylococcal immunization strategies.
PXD016469	32529831	Dynamic ADP-Ribosylome, Phosphoproteome, and Interactome in LPS-Activated Macrophages. 	Protein ADP-ribosylation, phosphorylation, and interactome dynamics in macrophage activation.	ADP-ribosylation, ASK2, IMAC, LPS, PARP, PARP9, SEC, Size Exclusion Chromatography, interactome, macrophage, phosphorylation	We have used mass spectrometry (MS) to characterize protein signaling in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages from human blood, human THP1 cells, mouse bone marrow, and mouse Raw264.7 cells. Protein ADP-ribosylation was truncated down to phosphoribose, allowing for enrichment and identification of the resulting phosphoribosylated peptides alongside phosphopeptides. Size exclusion chromatography-MS (SEC-MS) was used to separate proteoforms by size; protein complexes were then identified by weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) based on their correlated movement into or out of SEC fractions following stimulation, presenting an analysis method for SEC-MS that does not rely on established databases. We highlight two modules of interest: one linked to the apoptosis signal-regulating kinase (ASK) signalosome and the other containing poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 9 (PARP9). Finally, PARP inhibition was used to perturb the characterized systems, demonstrating the importance of ADP-ribosylation for the global interactome. All post-translational modification (PTM) and interactome data have been aggregated into a meta-database of 6729 proteins, with ADP-ribosylation characterized on 2905 proteins and phosphorylation characterized on 2669 proteins. This database-titled MAPCD, for Macrophage ADP-ribosylation, Phosphorylation, and Complex Dynamics-serves as an invaluable resource for studying crosstalk between the ADP-ribosylome, phosphoproteome, and interactome.
PXD017704	32531271	Unbiased Proteomic Profiling Uncovers a Targetable GNAS/PKA/PP2A Axis in Small Cell Lung Cancer Stem Cells. 	Protein Kinase A interacting proteins		Using unbiased kinase profiling, we identified protein kinase A (PKA) as an active kinase in small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Inhibition of PKA activity genetically, or pharmacologically by activation of the PP2A phosphatase, suppresses SCLC expansion in culture and in vivo. Conversely, GNAS (G-protein alpha subunit), a PKA activator that is genetically activated in a small subset of human SCLC, promotes SCLC development. Phosphoproteomic analyses identified many PKA substrates and mechanisms of action. In particular, PKA activity is required for the propagation of SCLC stem cells in transplantation studies. Broad proteomic analysis of recalcitrant cancers has the potential to uncover targetable signaling networks, such as the GNAS/PKA/PP2A axis in SCLC.
PXD012490	32533074	Nuclear interacting SET domain protein 1 inactivation impairs GATA1-regulated erythroid differentiation and causes erythroleukemia. 	Analysis of Erythroleukemia   .	Erythroleukemia, Mass Spectroemtry	The nuclear receptor binding SET domain protein 1 (NSD1) is recurrently mutated in human cancers including acute leukemia. We show that NSD1 knockdown alters erythroid clonogenic growth of human CD34(+) hematopoietic cells. Ablation of Nsd1 in the hematopoietic system of mice induces a transplantable erythroleukemia. In vitro differentiation of Nsd1(-/-) erythroblasts is majorly impaired despite abundant expression of GATA1, the transcriptional master regulator of erythropoiesis, and associated with an impaired activation of GATA1-induced targets. Retroviral expression of wildtype NSD1, but not a catalytically-inactive NSD1(N1918Q) SET-domain mutant induces terminal maturation of Nsd1(-/-) erythroblasts. Despite similar GATA1 protein levels, exogenous NSD1 but not NSD(N1918Q) significantly increases the occupancy of GATA1 at target genes and their expression. Notably, exogenous NSD1 reduces the association of GATA1 with the co-repressor SKI, and knockdown of SKI induces differentiation of Nsd1(-/-) erythroblasts. Collectively, we identify the NSD1 methyltransferase as a regulator of GATA1-controlled erythroid differentiation and leukemogenesis.
PXD017248	32534212	CD11d is a novel antigen on chicken leukocytes. 	CD11d is a novel antigen on chicken PBMC	CD11d, PBMC, chicken, immunoprecipitation	In life sciences, antibodies are among the most commonly used tools for identifying, tracking, quantifying and isolating molecules, mainly proteins. However, it has recently become clear that antibodies often fall short with respect to specificity and selectivity and in many cases target proteins are not even known. When commercial availability of antibodies is scarce, e.g. for targeting proteins from farm animals, researchers face additional challenges: they often have to rely on cross-reactive antibodies, which are poorly characterized for their exact target, their actual cross-reactivity and the desired application. In this study, we aimed at identifying the true target of mouse monoclonal antibody 8F2, which was generated against chicken PBMC and used for decades in research, while it's actual target molecule remained unknown. We used 8F2 antibody for immunoprecipitation in chicken PBMC and subsequently identified its true target as CD11d, which was never described in chicken lymphocytes before, by quantitative LC-MSMS. The most abundant interactor of CD11d was identified as integrin beta 2. The existence of this alpha integrin was therefore clearly proven on protein level and provides a first basis to further assess the role of CD11d in chickens in future studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017248. SIGNIFICANCE: Our studies determined CD11d as the true target of a previously uncharacterized mouse monoclonal antibody 8F2, generated against chicken peripheral blood derived mononuclear cells (PBMC). This is therefore now first member of alpha integrins in chickens, that existence was now clearly identified on protein level. The additional identification of CD11d interactors provides information on integrin-dependent regulation of signaling networks, allowing further functional studies.
PXD010437	32534439	Orthogonal Proteomic Platforms and Their Implications for the Stable Classification of High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer Subtypes. 	CPTAC High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma SWATH-MS	DIA, SWATH, cancer, ovarian cancer	The National Cancer Institute (NCI) Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) established a harmonized method for large-scale clinical proteomic studies. SWATH-MS, an instance of data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomic methods, is an alternate proteomic approach. In this study, we used SWATH-MS to analyze remnant peptides from the original retrospective TCGA samples generated for the CPTAC ovarian cancer proteogenomic study. The SWATH-MS results recapitulated the confident identification of differentially expressed proteins in enriched pathways associated with the robust Mesenchymal high-grade serous ovarian cancer subtype and the homologous recombination deficient tumors. Hence, SWATH/DIA-MS presents a promising complementary or orthogonal alternative to the CPTAC proteomic workflow, with the advantages of simpler and faster workflows and lower sample consumption, albeit with shallower proteome coverage. In summary, both analytical methods are suitable to characterize clinical samples, providing proteomic workflow alternatives for cancer researchers depending on the context-specific goals of the studies.
PXD019277	32534442	A Unique Energy-Saving Strategy during Hibernation Revealed by Multi-Omics Analysis in the Chinese Alligator. 	Seasonal serum protein differences in Chinese alligator revealed by iTRAQ	Chinese alligator, Hibernation, Serum protein, iTRAQ	Many ectotherms hibernate in face of the harsh winter conditions to improve their survival rate. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this process remains unclear. Here, we explored the hibernation mechanism of Chinese alligator using integrative multi-omics analysis. We revealed that (1) the thyroid hormone biosynthesis, nutrition absorption and metabolism, muscle contraction, urinary excretion and immunity function pathways are overall downregulated during hibernation; (2) the fat catabolism is completely suppressed, contrasting with the upregulation of hepatic fatty-acid-transporter CPT1A, suggesting a unique energy-saving strategy that differs from that in hibernating mammals; (3) the hibernation-related genes are not only directly regulated by DNA methylation but also controlled by methylation-dependent transcription networks. In addition, we identified and compared tissue-specific, species-specific, and conserved season-biased miRNAs, demonstrating complex post-transcriptional regulation during hibernation. Our study revealed the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying hibernation in the Chinese alligator and provided molecular insights into the evolution of hibernation regulation.
PXD017157	32535146	Proteome of the fungus Phoma macdonaldii, the causal agent of black stem of sunflower. 	Proteome of the fungus Phoma macdonaldii, the causal agent of black stem in sunflower	Fungal pathogen, Phoma macdonaldii, Sunflower	Phoma macdonaldii causes black stem of sunflower, which severely affects sunflower yield and quality. There is currently little molecular information available for this pathogenic fungus. In this study, a global proteomic analysis of P. macdonaldii was performed to determine the biological characteristics and pathogenicity of this pathogen. A total of 1498 proteins were identified by LC-MS/MS in all biological replicates. Among the identified proteins, 1420 proteins were classified into the three main GO categories (biological process, cellular component, and molecular function) while 806 proteins were annotated into the five major KEGG database (metabolism, genetic information processing, environmental information processing, cellular processes, and organismal systems). The regulated expression levels of eight genes encoding selected identified proteins were investigated to assess their potential effects on fungal development and pathogenesis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to characterize the proteome of the necrotrophic fungus P. macdonaldii. The presented results provide novel insights into the development and pathogenesis of P. macdonaldii and possibly other Phoma species. SIGNIFICANCE: Black stem of sunflower is a devastating disease caused by the necrotrophic fungus Phoma macdonaldii. Relatively little is known regarding the molecular characteristics of this pathogen, and no proteomic investigation has been reported. Thus, we conducted a global proteomic analysis of P. macdonaldii. Many proteins were found to be differentially regulated during fungal development and pathogenesis, suggesting they may be important for these two processes. This is the first proteomic study of P. macdonaldii, and the data presented herein will be useful for elucidating the molecular characteristics of this fungus as well as other Phoma species.
PXD019259	32536039	Proteomic analysis enables distinction of early- versus advanced-stage lung adenocarcinomas. 	Proteomic Analysis Enables Distinction of Early- Versus Advanced-Stage Lung Adenocarcinomas	Adenocarcinoma, Lung cancer	BACKGROUND: A gel-free proteomic approach was utilized to perform in-depth tissue protein profiling of lung adenocarcinoma (ADC) and normal lung tissues from early and advanced stages of the disease. The long-term goal of this study is to generate a large-scale, label-free proteomics dataset from histologically well-classified lung ADC that can be used to increase further our understanding of disease progression and aid in identifying novel biomarkers. METHODS AND RESULTS: Cases of early-stage (I-II) and advanced-stage (III-IV) lung ADCs were selected and paired with normal lung tissues from 22 patients. The histologically and clinically stratified human primary lung ADCs were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. From the analysis of ADC and normal specimens, 4863 protein groups were identified. To examine the protein expression profile of ADC, a peak area-based quantitation method was used. In early- and advanced-stage ADC, 365 and 366 proteins were differentially expressed, respectively, between normal and tumor tissues (adjusted P-value < .01, fold change >= 4). A total of 155 proteins were dysregulated between early- and advanced-stage ADCs and 18 were suggested as early-specific stage ADC. In silico functional analysis of the upregulated proteins in both tumor groups revealed that most of the enriched pathways are involved in mRNA metabolism. Furthermore, the most overrepresented pathways in the proteins that were unique to ADC are related to mRNA metabolic processes. CONCLUSIONS: Further analysis of these data may provide an insight into the molecular pathways involved in disease etiology and may lead to the identification of biomarker candidates and potential targets for therapy. Our study provides potential diagnostic biomarkers for lung ADC and novel stage-specific drug targets for rational intervention.
PXD010592	32538093	PEPPI-MS: Polyacrylamide-Gel-Based Prefractionation for Analysis of Intact Proteoforms and Protein Complexes by Mass Spectrometry. 	Strategies to enhance the extraction of electrophoretically separated proteins from polyacrylamide gels and their application to mass spectrometry analyses (C4PR_LIV)	SDS PAGE, protein extraction	Prefractionation of complex mixtures of proteins derived from biological samples is indispensable for proteome analysis via top-down mass spectrometry (MS). Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), which enables high-resolution protein separation based on molecular size, is a widely used technique in biochemical experiments and has the potential to be useful in sample fractionation for top-down MS analysis. However, the lack of a means to efficiently recover the separated proteins in-gel has always been a barrier to its use in sample prefractionation. In this study, we present a novel experimental workflow, called Passively Eluting Proteins from Polyacrylamide gels as Intact species for MS ("PEPPI-MS"), which allows top-down MS of PAGE-separated proteins. The optimization of Coomassie brilliant blue staining followed by the passive extraction step in the PEPPI-MS workflow enabled the efficient recovery of proteins, separated on commercial precast gels, from a wide range of molecular weight regions in under 10 min. Two-dimensional separation combining offline PEPPI-MS with online reversed-phase liquid chromatographic separation resulted in identification of over 1000 proteoforms recovered from the target region of the gel (<=50 kDa). Given the widespread availability and relatively low cost of traditional sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-PAGE equipment, the PEPPI-MS workflow will be a powerful prefractionation strategy for top-down proteomics.
PXD019134	32538095	Revealing the Venomous Secrets of the Spider's Web. 	Revealing the venomous secrets of the spider's web	LCMS-based proteomics, de novo transcriptome assembly, neurotoxins, spider silk-producing glands, web silk toxins	Orb-weaving spiders use a highly strong, sticky and elastic web to catch their prey. These web properties alone would be enough for the entrapment of prey; however, these spiders may be hiding venomous secrets in the web, which current research is revealing. Here, we provide strong proteotranscriptomic evidence for the presence of toxin/neurotoxin-like proteins, defensins, and proteolytic enzymes on the web silk from Nephila clavipes spider. The results from quantitative-based transcriptomic and proteomic approaches showed that silk-producing glands produce an extensive repertoire of toxin/neurotoxin-like proteins, similar to those already reported in spider venoms. Meanwhile, the insect toxicity results demonstrated that these toxic components can be lethal and/or paralytic chemical weapons used for prey capture on the web, and the presence of fatty acids in the web may be a responsible mechanism opening the way to the web toxins for accessing the interior of prey's body, as shown here. Comparative phylogenomic-level evolutionary analyses revealed orthologous genes among two spider groups, Araneomorphae and Mygalomorphae, and the findings showed protein sequences similar to toxins found in the taxa Scorpiones and Hymenoptera in addition to Araneae. Overall, these data represent a valuable resource to further investigate other spider web toxin systems and also suggest that N. clavipes web is not a passive mechanical trap for prey capture, but it exerts an active role in prey paralysis/killing using a series of neurotoxins.
PXD018973	32539411	Data Dependent-Independent Acquisition (DDIA) Proteomics. 	Data Dependent-Independent Acquisition (DDIA) Proteomics	DDA, DDIA, DIA	Data dependent acquisition (DDA) and data independent acquisition (DIA) are traditionally separate experimental paradigms in bottom-up proteomics. In this work, we developed a strategy combining the two experimental methods into a single LC-MS/MS run. We call the novel strategy data dependent-independent acquisition proteomics, or DDIA for short. Peptides identified from DDA scans by a conventional and robust DDA identification workflow provide useful information for interrogation of DIA scans. Deep learning based LC-MS/MS property prediction tools, developed previously, can be used repeatedly to produce spectral libraries facilitating DIA scan extraction. A complete DDIA data processing pipeline, including the modules for iRT vs RT calibration curve generation, DIA extraction classifier training, and false discovery rate control, has been developed. Compared to another spectral library-free method, DIA-Umpire, the DDIA method produced a similar number of peptide identifications, but nearly twice as many protein group identifications. The primary advantage of the DDIA method is that it requires minimal information for processing its data.
PXD013809	32539747	Dynamic rewiring of the human interactome by interferon signaling. 	Dynamic rewiring of the human interactome by interferon signalling	innate immunity, interactome, interferon, interferon stimulated gene, protein complexes, protein correlation profiling	BACKGROUND: The type I interferon (IFN) response is an ancient pathway that protects cells against viral pathogens by inducing the transcription of hundreds of IFN-stimulated genes. Comprehensive catalogs of IFN-stimulated genes have been established across species and cell types by transcriptomic and biochemical approaches, but their antiviral mechanisms remain incompletely characterized. Here, we apply a combination of quantitative proteomic approaches to describe the effects of IFN signaling on the human proteome, and apply protein correlation profiling to map IFN-induced rearrangements in the human protein-protein interaction network. RESULTS: We identify > 26,000 protein interactions in IFN-stimulated and unstimulated cells, many of which involve proteins associated with human disease and are observed exclusively within the IFN-stimulated network. Differential network analysis reveals interaction rewiring across a surprisingly broad spectrum of cellular pathways in the antiviral response. We identify IFN-dependent protein-protein interactions mediating novel regulatory mechanisms at the transcriptional and translational levels, with one such interaction modulating the transcriptional activity of STAT1. Moreover, we reveal IFN-dependent changes in ribosomal composition that act to buffer IFN-stimulated gene protein synthesis. CONCLUSIONS: Our map of the IFN interactome provides a global view of the complex cellular networks activated during the antiviral response, placing IFN-stimulated genes in a functional context, and serves as a framework to understand how these networks are dysregulated in autoimmune or inflammatory disease.
PXD016231	32540407	Proteomics of saliva, plasma, and salivary gland tissue in Sjoegren's syndrome and non-Sjoegren patients identify novel biomarker candidates. 	Proteomics of saliva, plasma, and salivary gland tissue in Sjgren's syndrome and non-Sjgren patients identify novel biomarker candidates	Biomarker, Minor Salivary Glands, Plasma, Saliva, Sjgren's syndrome	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to characterize and compare the proteome in whole saliva, plasma, and salivary gland tissue in patients with primary Sjoegren's syndrome (pSS) and patients having symptoms of pSS, but not fulfilling the classification criteria, and to search for diagnostic biomarker candidates for pSS. METHODS: Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry was conducted on whole saliva, plasma, and labial salivary gland tissue samples from 24 patients with pSS and 16 non-Sjoegren control subjects (non-pSS). Gene Ontology (GO)-terms and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)-pathways were applied for functional annotation. RESULTS: 1013 proteins were identified in whole saliva, 219 in plasma, and 3166 in salivary gland tissue. In saliva, 40 proteins differed significantly between the two groups. In pSS, proteins involved in immunoinflammatory processes were upregulated, whereas proteins related to salivary secretion were downregulated. The combination of neutrophil elastase, calreticulin, and tripartite motif-containing protein 29 yielded a receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) value of 0.97 (CI 0.93-1.00). Protein expression in plasma and salivary gland tissue did not differ between the patient groups. CONCLUSION: The salivary proteome of patients with pSS differed from that of non-pSS patients, indicating that saliva proteomics represents a promising non-invasive diagnostic tool for pSS. SIGNIFICANCE: Primary Sjoegren's syndrome (pSS) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease, which clinically may present with a wide variety of symptoms and signs. Symptoms of dry eyes and dry mouth due to lacrimal and salivary gland dysfunction are prominent, but not pathognomonic, and an extensive diagnostic work-up including blood tests and labial salivary gland biopsy is often required to distinguish pSS from non-pSS. In this study, we used high throughput proteomics and identified a non-invasive biomarker candidate comprising a combination of three different upregulated salivary proteins, which enables differentiation between patients with pSS and non-pSS patients with an accuracy of 97%. In the future, this could contribute to earlier, more accurate and less costly diagnosis of pSS.
PXD011004	32541000	Kir2.1 Interactome Mapping Uncovers PKP4 as a Modulator of the Kir2.1-Regulated Inward Rectifier Potassium Currents. 	Map of the Kir2.1 interactome using BioID	ATS, BioID, Kir2.1	Kir2.1, a strong inward rectifier potassium channel encoded by the KCNJ2 gene, is a key regulator of the resting membrane potential of the cardiomyocyte and plays an important role in controlling ventricular excitation and action potential duration in the human heart. Mutations in KCNJ2 result in inheritable cardiac diseases in humans, e.g. the type-1 Andersen-Tawil syndrome (ATS1). Understanding the molecular mechanisms that govern the regulation of inward rectifier potassium currents by Kir2.1 in both normal and disease contexts should help uncover novel targets for therapeutic intervention in ATS1 and other Kir2.1-associated channelopathies. The information available to date on protein-protein interactions involving Kir2.1 channels remains limited. Additional efforts are necessary to provide a comprehensive map of the Kir2.1 interactome. Here we describe the generation of a comprehensive map of the Kir2.1 interactome using the proximity-labeling approach BioID. Most of the 218 high-confidence Kir2.1 channel interactions we identified are novel and encompass various molecular mechanisms of Kir2.1 function, ranging from intracellular trafficking to cross-talk with the insulin-like growth factor receptor signaling pathway, as well as lysosomal degradation. Our map also explores the variations in the interactome profiles of Kir2.1(WT)versus Kir2.1(Delta314-315), a trafficking deficient ATS1 mutant, thus uncovering molecular mechanisms whose malfunctions may underlie ATS1 disease. Finally, using patch-clamp analysis, we validate the functional relevance of PKP4, one of our top BioID interactors, to the modulation of Kir2.1-controlled inward rectifier potassium currents. Our results validate the power of our BioID approach in identifying functionally relevant Kir2.1 interactors and underline the value of our Kir2.1 interactome as a repository for numerous novel biological hypotheses on Kir2.1 and Kir2.1-associated diseases.
PXD014898	32541649	Atomic-resolution mapping of transcription factor-DNA interactions by femtosecond laser crosslinking and mass spectrometry. 	Mapping protein-DNA interactions by UV femtosecond laser crosslinking and mass spectrometry analysis	UV, femtosecond laser, protein-DNA crosslinking, transcription factor	Transcription factors (TFs) regulate target genes by specific interactions with DNA sequences. Detecting and understanding these interactions at the molecular level is of fundamental importance in biological and clinical contexts. Crosslinking mass spectrometry is a powerful tool to assist the structure prediction of protein complexes but has been limited to the study of protein-protein and protein-RNA interactions. Here, we present a femtosecond laser-induced crosslinking mass spectrometry (fliX-MS) workflow, which allows the mapping of protein-DNA contacts at single nucleotide and up to single amino acid resolution. Applied to recombinant histone octamers, NF1, and TBP in complex with DNA, our method is highly specific for the mapping of DNA binding domains. Identified crosslinks are in close agreement with previous biochemical data on DNA binding and mostly fit known complex structures. Applying fliX-MS to cells identifies several bona fide crosslinks on DNA binding domains, paving the way for future large scale ex vivo experiments.
PXD016017	32541821	Characterization of a pluripotent stem cell-derived matrix with powerful osteoregenerative capabilities. 	A Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Matrix with Potent Osteoregenerative Capabilities	Stem Cell, Matrix	Approximately 10% of fractures will not heal without intervention. Current treatments can be marginally effective, costly, and some have adverse effects. A safe and manufacturable mimic of anabolic bone is the primary goal of bone engineering, but achieving this is challenging. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), are excellent candidates for engineering bone, but lack reproducibility due to donor source and culture methodology. The need for a bioactive attachment substrate also hinders progress. Herein, we describe a highly osteogenic MSC line generated from induced pluripotent stem cells that generates high yields of an osteogenic cell-matrix (ihOCM) in vitro. In mice, the intrinsic osteogenic activity of ihOCM surpasses bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP2) driving healing of calvarial defects in 4 weeks by a mechanism mediated in part by collagen VI and XII. We propose that ihOCM may represent an effective replacement for autograft and BMP products used commonly in bone tissue engineering.
PXD018207	32542338	ATAD5 restricts R-loop formation through PCNA unloading and RNA helicase maintenance at the replication fork. 	ATAD5 regulates R-loop by maintaining RNA helicase level and unloading PCNA at the replication fork	ATAD5, DEAD-box RNA helicase, PCNA, R-loop, Replication stress	R-loops are formed when replicative forks collide with the transcriptional machinery and can cause genomic instability. However, it is unclear how R-loops are regulated at transcription-replication conflict (TRC) sites and how replisome proteins are regulated to prevent R-loop formation or mediate R-loop tolerance. Here, we report that ATAD5, a PCNA unloader, plays dual functions to reduce R-loops both under normal and replication stress conditions. ATAD5 interacts with RNA helicases such as DDX1, DDX5, DDX21 and DHX9 and increases the abundance of these helicases at replication forks to facilitate R-loop resolution. Depletion of ATAD5 or ATAD5-interacting RNA helicases consistently increases R-loops during the S phase and reduces the replication rate, both of which are enhanced by replication stress. In addition to R-loop resolution, ATAD5 prevents the generation of new R-loops behind the replication forks by unloading PCNA which, otherwise, accumulates and persists on DNA, causing a collision with the transcription machinery. Depletion of ATAD5 reduces transcription rates due to PCNA accumulation. Consistent with the role of ATAD5 and RNA helicases in maintaining genomic integrity by regulating R-loops, the corresponding genes were mutated or downregulated in several human tumors.
PXD017358	32543193	Integrated Proteomic and N-Glycoproteomic Analyses of Human Breast Cancer. 	Integrated proteomic and N-glycoproteomic analyses of human breast cancer	Breast cancer, DIA, N-glycosylation	Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in women worldwide. In the past decades, many advances have been made in understanding and treating breast cancer. However, due to the highly heterogeneous nature of this disease, a precise characterization of breast cancer on the molecular level is of great importance but not yet readily available. In the present study, we systematically profiled proteomes and N-glycoproteomes of cancerous, paracancerous, and distal noncancerous tissues from patients with breast cancer. The data revealed distinct proteomic and N-glycoproteomic landscapes between different tissues, showing biological insights obtained from the two data sets were complementary. Specifically, the complement and angiogenesis pathways in the paracancerous tissues were activated. Taken together, the changes that occurred in paracancer tissue and N-glycoproteomics are important complements to the conventional proteomic analysis of cancer tissue. Their combination provides more precise and sensitive molecular correlates of breast cancer. Our data and strategy shed light on precisely defining breast cancer, providing valuable information for individual patient diagnosis and treatment. The MS data of this study have been deposited under the accession number IPX0001924000 at iProX.
PXD019129	32544089	Proteomics identifies a convergent innate response to infective endocarditis and extensive proteolysis in vegetation components. 	Protein components of infective endocarditis vegetations and insights on their proteolysis using mass spectrometry-based N-terminomics	Degradomics, Infective Endocarditis, N-terminomics, TAILS	Infective endocarditis is a life-threatening infection of heart valves and adjacent structures characterized by vegetations on valves and other endocardial surfaces, with tissue destruction and risk of embolization. We used high-resolution mass spectrometry to define the proteome of staphylococcal and non-staphylococcal vegetations and Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS) to define their proteolytic landscapes. These approaches identified over 2000 human proteins in staphylococcal and non-staphylococcal vegetations. Individual vegetation proteomes demonstrated comparable profiles of quantitatively major constituents that overlapped with serum, platelet, and neutrophil proteomes. Staphylococcal vegetation proteomes resembled one another more than the proteomes of non-staphylococcal vegetations. TAILS demonstrated extensive proteolysis within vegetations, with numerous previously undescribed cleavages. Several proteases and pathogen-specific proteins, including virulence factors, were identified in most vegetations. Proteolytic peptides in fibronectin and complement C3 were identified as potential infective endocarditis biomarkers. Overlap of staphylococcal and non-staphylococcal vegetation proteomes suggests a convergent thrombotic and immune response to endocardial infection by diverse pathogens. However, the differences between staphylococcal and non-staphylococcal vegetations and internal variance within the non-staphylococcal group indicate that additional pathogen- or patient-specific effects exist. Pervasive proteolysis of vegetation components may arise from vegetation-intrinsic proteases and destabilize vegetations, contributing to embolism.
PXD011934	32544466	Altered mitochondrial proteome and functional dynamics in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. 	Identification of mitochondrial dysfunction in rheumatoid arthritis patients	PBMCs, Rheumatoid arthritis, mitochondrial dysfunction, proteins	The autoimmune inflammatory disease, Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), has known imbalances in energy metabolism and superoxide levels thus may have an etiology associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. We thus evaluated the presence of a differential mitochondrial proteome as well as other characteristics including mitochondrial mass, membrane potential (Psim), total cellular ATP and superoxide levels. Eighteen mitochondrial proteins were down-regulated while four were up-regulated in RA patients in comparison to the healthy controls (HC). A significant decrease in mitochondrial Psim, superoxides and cellular ATP levels was observed in RA with constant mitochondrial mass suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction responsible for functional disparity in RA.
PXD016571	32545899	Differential Urinary Proteome Analysis for Predicting Prognosis in Type 2 Diabetes Patients with and without Renal Dysfunction. 	T2D patients' urine LC-MSMS for predicting prognosis w/ and w/o renal dysfunction	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Diabetes (B/D-HPP), Diabetes mellitus type 2, Diabetic nephropathy, Human Proteome Project, Kidney, ProteomeXchange project tag: Kidney Urine (B/D-HPP), Urine	Renal dysfunction, a major complication of type 2 diabetes, can be predicted from estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and protein markers such as albumin concentration. Urinary protein biomarkers may be used to monitor or predict patient status. Urine samples were selected from patients enrolled in the retrospective diabetic kidney disease (DKD) study, including 35 with good and 19 with poor prognosis. After removal of albumin and immunoglobulin, the remaining proteins were reduced, alkylated, digested, and analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively with a nano LC-MS platform. Each protein was identified, and its concentration normalized to that of creatinine. A prognostic model of DKD was formulated based on the adjusted quantities of each protein in the two groups. Of 1296 proteins identified in the 54 urine samples, 66 were differentially abundant in the two groups (area under the curve (AUC): p-value < 0.05), but none showed significantly better performance than albumin. To improve the predictive power by multivariate analysis, five proteins (ACP2, CTSA, GM2A, MUC1, and SPARCL1) were selected as significant by an AUC-based random forest method. The application of two classifiers-support vector machine and random forest-showed that the multivariate model performed better than univariate analysis of mucin-1 (AUC: 0.935 vs. 0.791) and albumin (AUC: 1.0 vs. 0.722). The urinary proteome can reflect kidney function directly and can predict the prognosis of patients with chronic kidney dysfunction. Classification based on five urinary proteins may better predict the prognosis of DKD patients than urinary albumin concentration or eGFR.
PXD015884	32546533	Gain-of-function genetic screen of the kinome reveals BRSK2 as an inhibitor of the NRF2 transcription factor. 	Molecular characterization of BRSK2 and BRSK1 kinases as negative regulators of the NRF2 transcription factor	AMPK, BRSK1, BRSK2, MTOR signaling, NRF2, SAD-A, SAD-B, antioxidant response, phosphoproteomics	Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NFE2L2, also known as NRF2) is a transcription factor and master regulator of cellular antioxidant response. Aberrantly high NRF2-dependent transcription is recurrent in human cancer, but conversely NRF2 activity diminishes with age and in neurodegenerative and metabolic disorders. Although NRF2-activating drugs are clinically beneficial, NRF2 inhibitors do not yet exist. Here, we describe use of a gain-of-function genetic screen of the kinome to identify new druggable regulators of NRF2 signaling. We found that the under-studied protein kinase brain-specific kinase 2 (BRSK2) and the related BRSK1 kinases suppress NRF2-dependent transcription and NRF2 protein levels in an activity-dependent manner. Integrated phosphoproteomics and RNAseq studies revealed that BRSK2 drives 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase alpha2 (AMPK) signaling and suppresses the mTOR pathway. As a result, BRSK2 kinase activation suppresses ribosome-RNA complexes, global protein synthesis and NRF2 protein levels. Collectively, our data illuminate the BRSK2 and BRSK1 kinases, in part by functionally connecting them to NRF2 signaling and mTOR. This signaling axis might prove useful for therapeutically targeting NRF2 in human disease.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD018342	32546623	The Leader Peptide peTrpL Forms Antibiotic-Containing Ribonucleoprotein Complexes for Posttranscriptional Regulation of Multiresistance Genes. 	The leader peptide peTrpL forms antibiotic-containing ribonucleoprotein complexes for posttranscriptional regulation of multiresistance genes	Sinorhizobium meliloti, attenuator, multiresistance, posttranscriptional regulation, quantification, small proteins	Bacterial ribosome-dependent attenuators are widespread posttranscriptional regulators. They harbor small upstream open reading frames (uORFs) encoding leader peptides, for which no functions in trans are known yet. In the plant symbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti, the tryptophan biosynthesis gene trpE(G) is preceded by the uORF trpL and is regulated by transcription attenuation according to tryptophan availability. However, trpLE(G) transcription is initiated independently of the tryptophan level in S. meliloti, thereby ensuring a largely tryptophan-independent production of the leader peptide peTrpL. Here, we provide evidence for a tryptophan-independent role of peTrpL in trans We found that peTrpL increases the resistance toward tetracycline, erythromycin, chloramphenicol, and the flavonoid genistein, which are substrates of the major multidrug efflux pump SmeAB. Coimmunoprecipitation with a FLAG-peTrpL suggested smeR mRNA, which encodes the transcription repressor of smeABR, as a peptide target. Indeed, upon antibiotic exposure, smeR mRNA was destabilized and smeA stabilized in a peTrpL-dependent manner, showing that peTrpL acts in the differential regulation of smeABR Furthermore, smeR mRNA was coimmunoprecipitated with peTrpL in antibiotic-dependent ribonucleoprotein (ARNP) complexes, which, in addition, contained an antibiotic-induced antisense RNA complementary to smeRIn vitro ARNP reconstitution revealed that the above-mentioned antibiotics and genistein directly support complex formation. A specific region of the antisense RNA was identified as a seed region for ARNP assembly in vitro Altogether, our data show that peTrpL is involved in a mechanism for direct utilization of antimicrobial compounds in posttranscriptional regulation of multiresistance genes. Importantly, this role of peTrpL in resistance is conserved in other AlphaproteobacteriaIMPORTANCE Leader peptides encoded by transcription attenuators are widespread small proteins that are considered nonfunctional in trans We found that the leader peptide peTrpL of the soil-dwelling plant symbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti is required for differential, posttranscriptional regulation of a multidrug resistance operon upon antibiotic exposure. Multiresistance achieved by efflux of different antimicrobial compounds ensures survival and competitiveness in nature and is important from both evolutionary and medical points of view. We show that the leader peptide forms antibiotic- and flavonoid-dependent ribonucleoprotein complexes (ARNPs) for destabilization of smeR mRNA encoding the transcription repressor of the major multidrug resistance operon. The seed region for ARNP assembly was localized in an antisense RNA, whose transcription is induced by antimicrobial compounds. The discovery of ARNP complexes as new players in multiresistance regulation opens new perspectives in understanding bacterial physiology and evolution and potentially provides new targets for antibacterial control.
PXD016494	32548857	The Arabidopsis N(alpha) -acetyltransferase NAA60 locates to the plasma membrane and is vital for the high salt stress response. 	plasma membrane anchored NAA60 N-terminal acetylation profiling in Arabidopsis thaliana	N-acetylome, N-terminal acetylation, SILProNAQ, acetyltransferase, quantitative proteomics	In humans and plants, N-terminal acetylation plays a central role in protein homeostasis, affects 80% of proteins in the cytoplasm and is catalyzed by five ribosome-associated N-acetyltransferases (NatA-E). Humans also possess a Golgi-associated NatF (HsNAA60) that is essential for Golgi integrity. Remarkably, NAA60 is absent in fungi and has not been identified in plants. Here we identify and characterize the first plasma membrane-anchored post-translationally acting N-acetyltransferase AtNAA60 in the reference plant Arabidopsis thaliana by the combined application of reverse genetics, global proteomics, live-cell imaging, microscale thermophoresis, circular dichroism spectroscopy, nano-differential scanning fluorometry, intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence and X-ray crystallography. We demonstrate that AtNAA60, like HsNAA60, is membrane-localized in vivo by an alpha-helical membrane anchor at its C-terminus, but in contrast to HsNAA60, AtNAA60 localizes to the plasma membrane. The AtNAA60 crystal structure provides insights into substrate-binding, the broad substrate specificity and the catalytic mechanism probed by structure-based mutagenesis. Characterization of the NAA60 loss-of-function mutants (naa60-1 and naa60-2) uncovers a plasma membrane-localized substrate of AtNAA60 and the importance of NAA60 during high salt stress. Our findings provide evidence for the plant-specific evolution of a plasma membrane-anchored N-acetyltransferase that is vital for adaptation to stress.
PXD016680	32554711	An Interaction Network of RNA-Binding Proteins Involved in Drosophila Oogenesis. 	An interaction network of RNA-binding proteins involved in Drosophila oogenesis	Drosophila melanogaster, LC/MS, RNA-binding proteins, immunoprecipitation, in vitro validation, oogenesis, transgenic fly lines	During Drosophila oogenesis, the localization and translational regulation of maternal transcripts relies on RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Many of these RBPs localize several mRNAs and may have additional direct interaction partners to regulate their functions. Using immunoprecipitation from whole Drosophila ovaries coupled to mass spectrometry, we examined protein-protein associations of 6 GFP-tagged RBPs expressed at physiological levels. Analysis of the interaction network and further validation in human cells allowed us to identify 26 previously unknown associations, besides recovering several well characterized interactions. We identified interactions between RBPs and several splicing factors, providing links between nuclear and cytoplasmic events of mRNA regulation. Additionally, components of the translational and RNA decay machineries were selectively co-purified with some baits, suggesting a mechanism for how RBPs may regulate maternal transcripts. Given the evolutionary conservation of the studied RBPs, the interaction network presented here provides the foundation for future functional and structural studies of mRNA localization across metazoans.
PXD016741	32554781	System-wide analyses of the fission yeast poly(A)(+) RNA interactome reveal insights into organization and function of RNA-protein complexes. 	System-wide analyses of the fission yeast poly(A)+ RNA interactome reveal insights into organisation and function of RNA-protein complexes	RNA exosome complex, RNA interactome capture, RNA-binding proteins, RNA-protein crosslinking, ribonucleoprotein complexes	Large RNA-binding complexes play a central role in gene expression and orchestrate production, function, and turnover of mRNAs. The accuracy and dynamics of RNA-protein interactions within these molecular machines are essential for their function and are mediated by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Here, we show that fission yeast whole-cell poly(A)(+) RNA-protein crosslinking data provide information on the organization of RNA-protein complexes. To evaluate the relative enrichment of cellular RBPs on poly(A)(+) RNA, we combine poly(A)(+) RNA interactome capture with a whole-cell extract normalization procedure. This approach yields estimates of in vivo RNA-binding activities that identify subunits within multiprotein complexes that directly contact RNA. As validation, we trace RNA interactions of different functional modules of the 3' end processing machinery and reveal additional contacts. Extending our analysis to different mutants of the RNA exosome complex, we explore how substrate channeling through the complex is affected by mutation. Our data highlight the central role of the RNA helicase Mtl1 in regulation of the complex and provide insights into how different components contribute to engagement of the complex with substrate RNA. In addition, we characterize RNA-binding activities of novel RBPs that have been recurrently detected in the RNA interactomes of multiple species. We find that many of these, including cyclophilins and thioredoxins, are substoichiometric RNA interactors in vivo. Because RBPomes show very good overall agreement between species, we propose that the RNA-binding characteristics we observe in fission yeast are likely to apply to related proteins in higher eukaryotes as well.
PXD018329	32554797	The Insulin Receptor Adaptor IRS2 is an APC/C Substrate That Promotes Cell Cycle Protein Expression and a Robust Spindle Assembly Checkpoint. 	Quantitative proteomics in G1 cells reveals the insulin receptor adaptor IRS2 as an APC/CCdh1 substrate	APC substrate, IRS2, TMT	Insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) is an essential adaptor that mediates signaling downstream of the insulin receptor and other receptor tyrosine kinases. Transduction through IRS2-dependent pathways is important for coordinating metabolic homeostasis, and dysregulation of IRS2 causes systemic insulin signaling defects. Despite the importance of maintaining proper IRS2 abundance, little is known about what factors mediate its protein stability. We conducted an unbiased proteomic screen to uncover novel substrates of the Anaphase Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C), a ubiquitin ligase that controls the abundance of key cell cycle regulators. We found that IRS2 levels are regulated by APC/C activity and that IRS2 is a direct APC/C target in G1 Consistent with the APC/C's role in degrading cell cycle regulators, quantitative proteomic analysis of IRS2-null cells revealed a deficiency in proteins involved in cell cycle progression. We further show that cells lacking IRS2 display a weakened spindle assembly checkpoint in cells treated with microtubule inhibitors. Together, these findings reveal a new pathway for IRS2 turnover and indicate that IRS2 is a component of the cell cycle control system in addition to acting as an essential metabolic regulator.
PXD046063	32554804	The final assembly of trehalose polyphleates takes place within the outer layer of the mycobacterial cell envelope. 	Reanalysis of Data-dependent acquisition based proteomic datasets of Mycobacterium smegmatis	M. smegmatis, non-tuberculous mycobacteria	Trehalose polyphleates (TPP) are high-molecular-weight, surface-exposed glycolipids present in a broad range of nontuberculous mycobacteria. These compounds consist of a trehalose core bearing polyunsaturated fatty acyl substituents (called phleic acids) and a straight-chain fatty acid residue and share a common basic structure with trehalose-based glycolipids produced by Mycobacterium tuberculosis TPP production starts in the cytosol with the formation of a diacyltrehalose intermediate. An acyltransferase, called PE, subsequently catalyzes the transfer of phleic acids onto diacyltrehalose to form TPP, and an MmpL transporter promotes the export of TPP or its precursor across the plasma membrane. PE is predicted to be an anchored membrane protein, but its topological organization is unknown, raising questions about the subcellular localization of the final stage of TPP biosynthesis and the chemical nature of the substrates that are translocated by the MmpL transporter. Here, using genetic, biochemical, and proteomic approaches, we established that PE of Mycobacterium smegmatis is exported to the cell envelope following cleavage of its signal peptide and that this process is required for TPP biosynthesis, indicating that the last step of TPP formation occurs in the outer layers of the mycobacterial cell envelope. These results provide detailed insights into the molecular mechanisms controlling TPP formation and transport to the cell surface, enabling us to propose an updated model of the TPP biosynthetic pathway. Because the molecular mechanisms of glycolipid production are conserved among mycobacteria, these findings obtained with PE from M. smegmatis may offer clues to glycolipid formation in M. tuberculosis.
PXD014026	32555357	Shotgun proteomics reveals putative polyesterases in the secretome of the rock-inhabiting fungus Knufia chersonesos. 	Secretome analysis of Knufia chersonesos MA5789, wt and MA5790 mutant	PBAT, Q Exactive HF Orbitrap, black fungi, hydrolases, label-free  proteomics, polyesters degrading enzymes, rock fungi, secretome	Knufia chersonesos is an ascomycotal representative of black fungi, a morphological group of polyextremotolerant melanotic fungi, whose ability to resort to recalcitrant carbon sources makes it an interesting candidate for degradation purposes. A secretome screening towards polyesterases was carried out for the fungus and its non-melanized mutant, grown in presence of the synthetic copolyester Polybutylene adipate terephthalate (PBAT) as additional or sole carbon source, and resulted in the identification of 37 esterolytic and lipolytic enzymes across the established cultivation conditions. Quantitative proteomics allowed to unveil 9 proteins being constitutively expressed at all conditions and 7 which were instead detected as up-regulated by PBAT exposure. Protein functional analysis and structure prediction indicated similarity of these enzymes to microbial polyesterases of known biotechnological use such as MHETase from Ideonella sakaiensis and CalA from Candida albicans. For both strains, PBAT hydrolysis was recorded at all cultivation conditions and primarily the corresponding monomers were released, which suggests degradation to the polymer's smallest building block. The work presented here aims to demonstrate how investigations of the secretome can provide new insights into the eco-physiology of polymer degrading fungi and ultimately aid the identification of novel enzymes with potential application in polymer processing, recycling and degradation.
PXD015854	32555370	S100A6 is a critical regulator of hematopoietic stem cells. 	Regulatory Role of S100A6 in Hematopoetic Stem Cells	hematopoetic stem cell	The fate options of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) include self-renewal, differentiation, migration, and apoptosis. HSCs self-renewal divisions in stem cells are required for rapid regeneration during tissue damage and stress, but how precisely intracellular calcium signals are regulated to maintain fate options in normal hematopoiesis is unclear. S100A6 knockout (KO) HSCs have reduced total cell numbers in the HSC compartment, decreased myeloid output, and increased apoptotic HSC numbers in steady state. S100A6KO HSCs had impaired self-renewal and regenerative capacity, not responding to 5-Fluorouracil. Our transcriptomic and proteomic profiling suggested that S100A6 is a critical HSC regulator. Intriguingly, S100A6KO HSCs showed decreased levels of phosphorylated Akt (p-Akt) and Hsp90, with an impairment of mitochondrial respiratory capacity and a reduction of mitochondrial calcium levels. We showed that S100A6 regulates intracellular and mitochondria calcium buffering of HSC upon cytokine stimulation and have demonstrated that Akt activator SC79 reverts the levels of intracellular and mitochondrial calcium in HSC. Hematopoietic colony-forming activity and the Hsp90 activity of S100A6KO are restored through activation of the Akt pathway. We show that p-Akt is the prime downstream mechanism of S100A6 in the regulation of HSC self-renewal by specifically governing mitochondrial metabolic function and Hsp90 protein quality.
PXD019483	32555458	The proteome landscape of the kingdoms of life. 	The Proteome Landscape of the Kingdoms of Life		Proteins carry out the vast majority of functions in all biological domains, but for technological reasons their large-scale investigation has lagged behind the study of genomes. Since the first essentially complete eukaryotic proteome was reported(1), advances in mass-spectrometry-based proteomics(2) have enabled increasingly comprehensive identification and quantification of the human proteome(3-6). However, there have been few comparisons across species(7,8), in stark contrast with genomics initiatives(9). Here we use an advanced proteomics workflow-in which the peptide separation step is performed by a microstructured and extremely reproducible chromatographic system-for the in-depth study of 100 taxonomically diverse organisms. With two million peptide and 340,000 stringent protein identifications obtained in a standardized manner, we double the number of proteins with solid experimental evidence known to the scientific community. The data also provide a large-scale case study for sequence-based machine learning, as we demonstrate by experimentally confirming the predicted properties of peptides from Bacteroides uniformis. Our results offer a comparative view of the functional organization of organisms across the entire evolutionary range. A remarkably high fraction of the total proteome mass in all kingdoms is dedicated to protein homeostasis and folding, highlighting the biological challenge of maintaining protein structure in all branches of life. Likewise, a universally high fraction is involved in supplying energy resources, although these pathways range from photosynthesis through iron sulfur metabolism to carbohydrate metabolism. Generally, however, proteins and proteomes are remarkably diverse between organisms, and they can readily be explored and functionally compared at www.proteomesoflife.org.
PXD014814	32555463	Dynamic RNA acetylation revealed by quantitative cross-evolutionary mapping. 	Thermococcus kodakarensis proteins expressed at various temperatures reveals changes in RNA modifications	QExactive Plus, Thermococcus kodakarensis, theromphile	N(4)-acetylcytidine (ac(4)C) is an ancient and highly conserved RNA modification that is present on tRNA and rRNA and has recently been investigated in eukaryotic mRNA(1-3). However, the distribution, dynamics and functions of cytidine acetylation have yet to be fully elucidated. Here we report ac(4)C-seq, a chemical genomic method for the transcriptome-wide quantitative mapping of ac(4)C at single-nucleotide resolution. In human and yeast mRNAs, ac(4)C sites are not detected but can be induced-at a conserved sequence motif-via the ectopic overexpression of eukaryotic acetyltransferase complexes. By contrast, cross-evolutionary profiling revealed unprecedented levels of ac(4)C across hundreds of residues in rRNA, tRNA, non-coding RNA and mRNA from hyperthermophilic archaea. Ac(4)C is markedly induced in response to increases in temperature, and acetyltransferase-deficient archaeal strains exhibit temperature-dependent growth defects. Visualization of wild-type and acetyltransferase-deficient archaeal ribosomes by cryo-electron microscopy provided structural insights into the temperature-dependent distribution of ac(4)C and its potential thermoadaptive role. Our studies quantitatively define the ac(4)C landscape, providing a technical and conceptual foundation for elucidating the role of this modification in biology and disease(4-6).
PXD019061	32555523	Analysis of Immune Checkpoint Drug Targets and Tumor Proteotypes in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. 	Analysis of Immune Checkpoint Drug Targets and Tumor Proteotypes in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer	FFPE NSCLC PRM	New therapeutics targeting immune checkpoint proteins have significantly advanced treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but protein level quantitation of drug targets presents a critical problem. We used multiplexed, targeted mass spectrometry (MS) to quantify immunotherapy target proteins PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2, IDO1, LAG3, TIM3, ICOSLG, VISTA, GITR, and CD40 in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) NSCLC specimens. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and MS measurements for PD-L1 were weakly correlated, but IHC did not distinguish protein abundance differences detected by MS. PD-L2 abundance exceeded PD-L1 in over half the specimens and the drug target proteins all displayed different abundance patterns. mRNA correlated with protein abundance only for PD-1, PD-L1, and IDO1 and tumor mutation burden did not predict abundance of any protein targets. Global proteome analyses identified distinct proteotypes associated with high PD-L1-expressing and high IDO1-expressing NSCLC. MS quantification of multiple drug targets and tissue proteotypes can improve clinical evaluation of immunotherapies for NSCLC.
PXD012707	32558077	Mitochondrial protein biogenesis in the synapse is supported by local translation. 	Local translation of mitochondrial proteins at the synapse	local translation, quantitative proteomics, synaptosomes	Synapses are the regions of the neuron that enable the transmission and propagation of action potentials on the cost of high energy consumption and elevated demand for mitochondrial ATP production. The rapid changes in local energetic requirements at dendritic spines imply the role of mitochondria in the maintenance of their homeostasis. Using global proteomic analysis supported with complementary experimental approaches, we show that an essential pool of mitochondrial proteins is locally produced at the synapse indicating that mitochondrial protein biogenesis takes place locally to maintain functional mitochondria in axons and dendrites. Furthermore, we show that stimulation of synaptoneurosomes induces the local synthesis of mitochondrial proteins that are transported to the mitochondria and incorporated into the protein supercomplexes of the respiratory chain. Importantly, in a mouse model of fragile X syndrome, Fmr1 KO mice, a common disease associated with dysregulation of synaptic protein synthesis, we observed altered morphology and respiration rates of synaptic mitochondria. That indicates that the local production of mitochondrial proteins plays an essential role in synaptic functions.
PXD012902	32558206	Protein Analysis of the TGFBI(R124H) Mouse Model Gives Insight into Phenotype Development of Granular Corneal Dystrophy. 	Corneal protome of trangenic TGFBI R124H mouse model	cornea	PURPOSE: Mutations in the transforming growth factor beta-induced protein (TGFBIp) are associated with TGFBI-linked corneal dystrophies, which manifests as protein deposits in the cornea. A total of 70 different disease-causing mutations have been reported so far including the common R124H substitution, which is associated with granular corneal dystrophy type 2 (GCD2). The disease mechanism of GCD2 is not known and the current treatments only offer temporary relief due to the reoccurrence of deposits. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The corneal protein profiles of the three genotypes (wild-type (WT), heterozygotes, and homozygotes) of a GCD2 mouse model are compared using label-free quantitative LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: The mice do not display corneal protein deposits and the global protein expression between the three genotypes is highly similar. However, the expression of mutated TGFBIp is 41% of that of the WT protein. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: It is proposed that the lowered expression level of mutant TGFBIp protein relative to WT protein is the direct cause of the missing development of corneal deposits in the mouse. The overall protein profiles of the corneas are not impacted by the reduced amount of TGFBIp. Altogether, this supports a partial reduction in mutated TGFBIp as a potential treatment strategy for GCD2.
PXD016459	32558274	Reduced proteasome activity in the aging brain results in ribosome stoichiometry loss and aggregation. 	Reduced proteasome activity in the aging brain results in ribosome stoichiometry loss and aggregation	Aging, aggregation, brain, proteasome, protein complex, ribosome, stoichiometry, transcriptome	A progressive loss of protein homeostasis is characteristic of aging and a driver of neurodegeneration. To investigate this process quantitatively, we characterized proteome dynamics during brain aging in the short-lived vertebrate Nothobranchius furzeri combining transcriptomics and proteomics. We detected a progressive reduction in the correlation between protein and mRNA, mainly due to post-transcriptional mechanisms that account for over 40% of the age-regulated proteins. These changes cause a progressive loss of stoichiometry in several protein complexes, including ribosomes, which show impaired assembly/disassembly and are enriched in protein aggregates in old brains. Mechanistically, we show that reduction of proteasome activity is an early event during brain aging and is sufficient to induce proteomic signatures of aging and loss of stoichiometry in vivo. Using longitudinal transcriptomic data, we show that the magnitude of early life decline in proteasome levels is a major risk factor for mortality. Our work defines causative events in the aging process that can be targeted to prevent loss of protein homeostasis and delay the onset of age-related neurodegeneration.
PXD016677	32560425	Long-Term Phenotypic and Proteomic Changes Following Vitrified Embryo Transfer in the Rabbit Model. 	Embryo cryopreservation-transfer procedure entails long-term phenotypic consequences correlated with molecular signatures in the rabbit model. SWATH DATA	Differential proteomics, Embryo cryopreservation, SWATH	Nowadays, assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs) are considered valuable contributors to our past, but a future without their use is inconceivable. However, in recent years, several studies have evidenced a potential impact of ART on long-term development in mammal species. To date, the long-term follow-up data are still limited. So far, studies have mainly focused on in vitro fertilization or in vitro culture, with information from gametes/embryos cryopreservation field being practically missing. Herein, we report an approach to determine whether a vitrified embryo transfer procedure would have long-term consequences on the offspring. Using the rabbit as a model, we compared animals derived from vitrified-transferred embryos versus those naturally conceived, studying the growth performance, plus the weight throughout life, and the internal organs/tissues phenotype. The healthy status was assessed over the hematological and biochemical parameters in peripheral blood. Additionally, a comparative proteomic analysis was conducted in the liver tissue to investigate molecular cues related to vitrified embryo transfer in an adult tissue. After vitrified embryo transfer, birth weight was increased, and the growth performance was diminished in a sex-specific manner. In addition, vitrified-transferred animals showed significantly lower body, liver and heart weights in adulthood. Molecular analyses revealed that vitrified embryo transfer triggers reprogramming of the liver proteome. Functional analysis of the differentially expressed proteins showed changes in relation to oxidative phosphorylation and dysregulations in the zinc and lipid metabolism, which has been reported as possible causes of a disturbed growth pattern. Therefore, we conclude that vitrified embryo transfer is not a neutral procedure, and it incurs long-term effects in the offspring both at phenotypic and molecular levels. These results described a striking example of the developmental plasticity exhibited by the mammalian embryo.
PXD019430	32561640	The guanine nucleotide exchange factor VAV3 participates in ERBB4-mediated cancer cell migration. 	VAV3 in ERBB4-mediated cancer cell migration	ERBB4, PRM, Targeted analysis, VAV3	ERBB4 is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/ERBB subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases that regulates cellular processes including proliferation, migration, and survival. ERBB4 signaling is involved in embryogenesis and homeostasis of healthy adult tissues, but also in human pathologies such as cancer, neurological disorders, and cardiovascular diseases. Here, an MS-based analysis revealed the Vav guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (VAV3), an activator of Rho family GTPases, as a critical ERBB4-interacting protein in breast cancer cells. We confirmed the ERBB4-VAV3 interaction by targeted MS and coimmunoprecipitation experiments and further defined it by demonstrating that kinase activity and Tyr-1022 and Tyr-1162 of ERBB4, as well as the intact phosphotyrosine-interacting SH2 domain of VAV3, are necessary for this interaction. We found that ERBB4 stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of the VAV3 activation domain, known to be required for guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity of VAV proteins. In addition to VAV3, the other members of the VAV family, VAV1 and VAV2, also coprecipitated with ERBB4. Analyses of the effects of overexpression of dominant-negative VAV3 constructs or shRNA-mediated down-regulation of VAV3 expression in breast cancer cells indicated that active VAV3 is involved in ERBB4-stimulated cell migration. These results define the VAV GEFs as effectors of ERBB4 activity in a signaling pathway relevant for cancer cell migration.
PXD000202	32561711	The Archaeal Proteome Project advances knowledge about archaeal cell biology through comprehensive proteomics. 	Archael ubiquitin-like SAMP3 is isopeptide-linked to Proteins by an UbaA-dependent mechanism	Haloferax volcanii, SAMP3, post-translational modification, ubiquitin-like modifier	While many aspects of archaeal cell biology remain relatively unexplored, systems biology approaches like mass spectrometry (MS) based proteomics offer an opportunity for rapid advances. Unfortunately, the enormous amount of MS data generated often remains incompletely analyzed due to a lack of sophisticated bioinformatic tools and field-specific biological expertise for data interpretation. Here we present the initiation of the Archaeal Proteome Project (ArcPP), a community-based effort to comprehensively analyze archaeal proteomes. Starting with the model archaeon Haloferax volcanii, we reanalyze MS datasets from various strains and culture conditions. Optimized peptide spectrum matching, with strict control of false discovery rates, facilitates identifying > 72% of the reference proteome, with a median protein sequence coverage of 51%. These analyses, together with expert knowledge in diverse aspects of cell biology, provide meaningful insights into processes such as N-terminal protein maturation, N-glycosylation, and metabolism. Altogether, ArcPP serves as an invaluable blueprint for comprehensive prokaryotic proteomics.
PXD015435	32561732	Mass spectrometry reveals the chemistry of formaldehyde cross-linking in structured proteins. 	Mass spectrometry study of formaldehyde cross-linking of structured proteins	Actin, Cross-linking coupled to mass spectrometry, Nascent polypeptide-associated complex, Structural biology, XL-MS	Whole-cell cross-linking coupled to mass spectrometry is one of the few tools that can probe protein-protein interactions in intact cells. A very attractive reagent for this purpose is formaldehyde, a small molecule which is known to rapidly penetrate into all cellular compartments and to preserve the protein structure. In light of these benefits, it is surprising that identification of formaldehyde cross-links by mass spectrometry has so far been unsuccessful. Here we report mass spectrometry data that reveal formaldehyde cross-links to be the dimerization product of two formaldehyde-induced amino acid modifications. By integrating the revised mechanism into a customized search algorithm, we identify hundreds of cross-links from in situ formaldehyde fixation of human cells. Interestingly, many of the cross-links could not be mapped onto known atomic structures, and thus provide new structural insights. These findings enhance the use of formaldehyde cross-linking and mass spectrometry for structural studies.
PXD017114	32561742	Substrate specificity of the TRAMP nuclear surveillance complexes. 	Substrate Specificity of the TRAMP Nuclear Surveillance Complexes	Nuclear surveillance, RNA-binding proteins, TRAMP complexes, Trf4, Trf5	During nuclear surveillance in yeast, the RNA exosome functions together with the TRAMP complexes. These include the DEAH-box RNA helicase Mtr4 together with an RNA-binding protein (Air1 or Air2) and a poly(A) polymerase (Trf4 or Trf5). To better determine how RNA substrates are targeted, we analyzed protein and RNA interactions for TRAMP components. Mass spectrometry identified three distinct TRAMP complexes formed in vivo. These complexes preferentially assemble on different classes of transcripts. Unexpectedly, on many substrates, including pre-rRNAs and pre-mRNAs, binding specificity is apparently conferred by Trf4 and Trf5. Clustering of mRNAs by TRAMP association shows co-enrichment for mRNAs with functionally related products, supporting the significance of surveillance in regulating gene expression. We compared binding sites of TRAMP components with multiple nuclear RNA binding proteins, revealing preferential colocalization of subsets of factors. TRF5 deletion reduces Mtr4 recruitment and increases RNA abundance for mRNAs specifically showing high Trf5 binding.
PXD018858	32561745	Holistic engineering of cell-free systems through proteome-reprogramming synthetic circuits. 	Holistic engineering of cell-free systems through proteome-reprogramming synthetic circuits	Cell-free protein synthesis, Orthogonality, Synthetic biology	Synthetic biology has focused on engineering genetic modules that operate orthogonally from the host cells. A synthetic biological module, however, can be designed to reprogram the host proteome, which in turn enhances the function of the synthetic module. Here, we apply this holistic synthetic biology concept to the engineering of cell-free systems by exploiting the crosstalk between metabolic networks in cells, leading to a protein environment more favorable for protein synthesis. Specifically, we show that local modules expressing translation machinery can reprogram the bacterial proteome, changing the expression levels of more than 700 proteins. The resultant feedback generates a cell-free system that can synthesize fluorescent reporters, protein nanocages, and the gene-editing nuclease Cas9, with up to 5-fold higher expression level than classical cell-free systems. Our work demonstrates a holistic approach that integrates synthetic and systems biology concepts to achieve outcomes not possible by only local, orthogonal circuits.
PXD017341	32561764	Deconstructing sarcomeric structure-function relations in titin-BioID knock-in mice. 	Titin BioID -  protein and peptide pull-down	BioID, biotinylation sites, titin	Proximity proteomics has greatly advanced the analysis of native protein complexes and subcellular structures in culture, but has not been amenable to study development and disease in vivo. Here, we have generated a knock-in mouse with the biotin ligase (BioID) inserted at titin's Z-disc region to identify protein networks that connect the sarcomere to signal transduction and metabolism. Our census of the sarcomeric proteome from neonatal to adult heart and quadriceps reveals how perinatal signaling, protein homeostasis and the shift to adult energy metabolism shape the properties of striated muscle cells. Mapping biotinylation sites to sarcomere structures refines our understanding of myofilament dynamics and supports the hypothesis that myosin filaments penetrate Z-discs to dampen contraction. Extending this proof of concept study to BioID fusion proteins generated with Crispr/CAS9 in animal models recapitulating human pathology will facilitate the future analysis of molecular machines and signaling hubs in physiological, pharmacological, and disease context.
PXD017160	32566407	Plasma membrane proteomic analysis by TMT-PRM provides insight into mechanisms of aluminum resistance in tamba black soybean roots tips. 	Plasma membrane proteomics    .	Aluminum resistance, PRM, Plasma membrane, TBS, TMT	Aluminum (Al) toxicity in acid soil is a worldwide agricultural problem that inhibits crop growth and productivity. However, the signal pathways associated with Al tolerance in plants remain largely unclear. In this study, tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic methods were used to identify the differentially expressed plasma membrane (PM) proteins in Tamba black soybean (TBS) root tips under Al stress. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017160. In addition, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) was used to verify the protein quantitative data. The results showed that 907 PM proteins were identified in Al-treated plants. Among them, compared to untreated plants, 90 proteins were differentially expressed (DEPs) with 46 up-regulated and 44 down-regulated (fold change > 1.3 or < 0.77, p < 0.05). Functional enrichment based on GO, KEGG and protein domain revealed that the DEPs were associated with membrane trafficking and transporters, modifying cell wall composition, defense response and signal transduction. In conclusion, our results highlight the involvement of GmMATE13, GmMATE75, GmMATE87 and H(+)-ATPase in Al-induced citrate secretion in PM of TBS roots, and ABC transporters and Ca(2+) have been implicated in internal detoxification and signaling of Al, respectively. Importantly, our data provides six receptor-like protein kinases (RLKs) as candidate proteins for further investigating Al signal transmembrane mechanisms.
PXD013502	32566817	Pulsed SILAM Reveals In Vivo Dynamics of Murine Brain Protein Translation. 	In vivo murine brain protein synthesis uncover the molecular physiological process in brain	actively translating protein, brain physiology, pSIVOM, pulsed SILAM	Identification of proteins that are synthesized de novo in response to specific microenvironmental cues is critical for understanding molecular mechanisms that underpin vital physiological processes and pathologies. Here, we report that a brief period of SILAM (Stable Isotope Labeling of Mammals) diet enables the determination of biological functions corresponding to actively translating proteins in the mouse brain. Our results demonstrate that the synapse, dendrite, and myelin sheath are highly active neuronal structures that display rapid protein synthesis, producing key mediators of chemical signaling as well as nutrient sensing, lipid metabolism, and amyloid precursor protein processing/stability. Together, these findings confirm that protein metabolic activity varies significantly between brain functional units in vivo. Our data indicate that pulsed SILAM approaches can unravel complex protein expression dynamics in the murine brain and identify active synthetic pathways and associated functions that are likely impaired in neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD017283	32568069	A divergent cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase complex controls the atypical replication of a malaria parasite during gametogony and transmission. 	A unique and divergent cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase complex controls DNA replication during atypical cell-cycles of Plasmodium berghei gametogonyA unique and divergent cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase complex controls DNA replication during atypical cell-	TMT10, cyclin-dependent kinase, phosphorylation, plasmodium berhei	Cell cycle transitions are generally triggered by variation in the activity of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) bound to cyclins. Malaria-causing parasites have a life cycle with unique cell-division cycles, and a repertoire of divergent CDKs and cyclins of poorly understood function and interdependency. We show that Plasmodium berghei CDK-related kinase 5 (CRK5), is a critical regulator of atypical mitosis in the gametogony and is required for mosquito transmission. It phosphorylates canonical CDK motifs of components in the pre-replicative complex and is essential for DNA replication. During a replicative cycle, CRK5 stably interacts with a single Plasmodium-specific cyclin (SOC2), although we obtained no evidence of SOC2 cycling by transcription, translation or degradation. Our results provide evidence that during Plasmodium male gametogony, this divergent cyclin/CDK pair fills the functional space of other eukaryotic cell-cycle kinases controlling DNA replication.
PXD016175	32568312	Characterization of N-linked intact glycopeptide signatures of plasma IgGs from patients with prostate carcinoma and benign prostatic hyperplasia for diagnosis pre-stratification. 	Intact N-glycopeptide signatures of immunoglobulin G molecules in plasma from patients with prostate carcinoma and benign prostatic hyperplasia	IgGs, glycosylation, plasma	The discovery of novel non-invasive biomarkers for discriminating between prostate carcinoma (PCa) patients and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) patients is necessary to reduce the burden of biopsies, avoid overdiagnosis and improve quality of life. Previous studies suggest that abnormal glycosylation of immunoglobulin gamma molecules (IgGs) is strongly associated with immunological diseases and prostate diseases. Hence, characterizing N-linked intact glycopeptides of IgGs that correspond to the N-glycan structure with specific site information might enable a better understanding of the molecular pathogenesis and discovery of novel signatures in preoperative discrimination of BPH from PCa. In this study, we profiled N-linked intact glycopeptides of purified IgGs from 51 PCa patients and 45 BPH patients by our developed N-glycoproteomic method using hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography enrichment coupled with high resolution LC-MS/MS. The quantitative analysis of the N-linked intact glycopeptides using pGlyco 2.0 and MaxQuant software provided quantitative information on plasma IgG subclass-specific and site-specific N-glycosylation. As a result, we found four aberrantly expressed N-linked intact glycopeptides across different IgG subclasses. In particular, the N-glycopeptide IgG2-GP09 (EEQFNSTFR (H5N5S1)) was dramatically elevated in plasma from PCa patients, compared with that in BPH patients (PCa/BPH ratio = 5.74, p = 0.001). Additionally, the variations in these N-linked intact glycopeptide abundances were not caused by the changes in the IgG concentrations. Furthermore, IgG2-GP09 displayed a more powerful prediction capability (auROC = 0.702) for distinguishing PCa from BPH than the clinical index t-PSA (auROC = 0.681) when used alone or in combination with other indicators (auROC = 0.853). In conclusion, these abnormally expressed N-linked intact glycopeptides have potential for non-invasive monitoring and pre-stratification of prostate diseases.
PXD019423	32568543	Mass Spectrometric Identification of SARS-CoV-2 Proteins from Gargle Solution Samples of COVID-19 Patients. 	MS analysis of SARS-CoV2 proteins from patient samples	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), COVID-19, Covid-19, Human Proteome Project, Nucleoprotein, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, Sars-CoV-2	Mass spectrometry (MS) can deliver valuable diagnostic data that complement genomic information and allow us to increase our current knowledge of the COVID-19 disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. We developed a simple, MS-based method to specifically detect SARS-CoV-2 proteins from gargle solution samples of COVID-19 patients. The protocol consists of an acetone precipitation and tryptic digestion of proteins contained within the gargle solution, followed by a targeted MS analysis. Our methodology identifies unique peptides originating from SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein. Building on these promising initial results, faster MS protocols can now be developed as routine diagnostic tools for COVID-19 patients. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD019423.
PXD014998	32569299	Ubiquitin activation is essential for schizont maturation in Plasmodium falciparum blood-stage development. 	Protein ubiquitylation is essential for the schizont to merozoite transition in Plasmodium falciparum blood-stage development	Malaria, Plasmodium, Ubiquitylation	Ubiquitylation is a common post translational modification of eukaryotic proteins and in the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) overall ubiquitylation increases in the transition from intracellular schizont to extracellular merozoite stages in the asexual blood stage cycle. Here, we identify specific ubiquitylation sites of protein substrates in three intraerythrocytic parasite stages and extracellular merozoites; a total of 1464 sites in 546 proteins were identified (data available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014998). 469 ubiquitylated proteins were identified in merozoites compared with only 160 in the preceding intracellular schizont stage, suggesting a large increase in protein ubiquitylation associated with merozoite maturation. Following merozoite invasion of erythrocytes, few ubiquitylated proteins were detected in the first intracellular ring stage but as parasites matured through trophozoite to schizont stages the apparent extent of ubiquitylation increased. We identified commonly used ubiquitylation motifs and groups of ubiquitylated proteins in specific areas of cellular function, for example merozoite pellicle proteins involved in erythrocyte invasion, exported proteins, and histones. To investigate the importance of ubiquitylation we screened ubiquitin pathway inhibitors in a parasite growth assay and identified the ubiquitin activating enzyme (UBA1 or E1) inhibitor MLN7243 (TAK-243) to be particularly effective. This small molecule was shown to be a potent inhibitor of recombinant PfUBA1, and a structural homology model of MLN7243 bound to the parasite enzyme highlights avenues for the development of P. falciparum specific inhibitors. We created a genetically modified parasite with a rapamycin-inducible functional deletion of uba1; addition of either MLN7243 or rapamycin to the recombinant parasite line resulted in the same phenotype, with parasite development blocked at the schizont stage. Nuclear division and formation of intracellular structures was interrupted. These results indicate that the intracellular target of MLN7243 is UBA1, and this activity is essential for the final differentiation of schizonts to merozoites.
PXD018231	32570968	Secretome Analysis of Mesenchymal Stem Cell Factors Fostering Oligodendroglial Differentiation of Neural Stem Cells In Vivo. 	Mesenchymal stem cell secretome	Mesenchymal stem cell, Neural stem cell, glial cell fate, secretome, spinal cord, transplantation	Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-secreted factors have been shown to significantly promote oligodendrogenesis from cultured primary adult neural stem cells (aNSCs) and oligodendroglial precursor cells (OPCs). Revealing underlying mechanisms of how aNSCs can be fostered to differentiate into a specific cell lineage could provide important insights for the establishment of novel neuroregenerative treatment approaches aiming at myelin repair. However, the nature of MSC-derived differentiation and maturation factors acting on the oligodendroglial lineage has not been identified thus far. In addition to missing information on active ingredients, the degree to which MSC-dependent lineage instruction is functional in vivo also remains to be established. We here demonstrate that MSC-derived factors can indeed stimulate oligodendrogenesis and myelin sheath generation of aNSCs transplanted into different rodent central nervous system (CNS) regions, and furthermore, we provide insights into the underlying mechanism on the basis of a comparative mass spectrometry secretome analysis. We identified a number of secreted proteins known to act on oligodendroglia lineage differentiation. Among them, the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase type 1 (TIMP-1) was revealed to be an active component of the MSC-conditioned medium, thus validating our chosen secretome approach.
PXD017965	32571191	Optimization of Method for Human Sex Determination Using Peptidome Analysis of Teeth Enamel from Teeth of Different Biological Generation, Archeological Age, and Degrees of Taphonomic Preservation. 	Sex estimation of human remains using the results of tooth enamel peptidomic analyses, LC-MSMS	amelogenins, peptides, sex estimation, tooth enamel	Determination of biological sex to human remains is a fundamental requirement in anthropological, archeological, and forensic anthropological studies. Sex determination based on morphological criteria is significantly limited in the cases of juvenile remains and adult skeletons in a poor state of preservation. Regular attempts have been made to use alternative techniques to resolve this issue, including analysis of tooth enamel peptides by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. Optimization of this method involving acid etching of tooth enamel for 10 min followed by desalting of the products of etching on SDB-RPS StageTips microcolumns and analysis of desalted sample (1/3) by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry allowed reliable sex determination to fossil remains within a wide range of archeological and biological ages without destructing analyzed teeth. Increasing the duration of enamel etching ensured a 2 to 3-fold increase in the total number of identified peptides and, more importantly, in the number of identified fragments of amelogenin Y isoform specific for male teeth, which facilitated reliable sex determination of fossil remains. The suggested technique was tested with 8 permanent and 15 deciduous teeth of different archaeological age and different degree of preservation. Two amelogenin Y-specific peptide sequences were identified. One of these peptides [SM(+15.99)IRPPYS)] was found in all male-derived samples without exception; the other peptide [IRPPYSS(+79.97)], which contained phosphorylated Ser66 residue, was found only in the enamel from deciduous teeth, which suggests that phosphorylation of Ser66 plays a role in the enamel formation in deciduous teeth.
PXD016746	32571844	Mitochondrial CLPP2 Assists Coordination and Homeostasis of Respiratory Complexes. 	Coordination and assembly of protein complexes encoded across mitochondrial and nuclear genomes is assisted by mtCLPP in Arabidopsis thaliana.	CLPP, Complex I, mitochondrial genome, nuclear genome, protease	Protein homeostasis in eukaryotic organelles and their progenitor prokaryotes is regulated by a series of proteases including the caseinolytic protease (CLPP). CLPP has essential roles in chloroplast biogenesis and maintenance, but the significance of the plant mitochondrial CLPP remains unknown and factors that aid coordination of nuclear- and mitochondrial-encoded subunits for complex assembly in mitochondria await discovery. We generated knockout lines of the single gene for the mitochondrial CLP protease subunit, CLPP2, in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Mutants showed a higher abundance of transcripts from mitochondrial genes encoding oxidative phosphorylation protein complexes, whereas nuclear genes encoding other subunits of the same complexes showed no change in transcript abundance. By contrast, the protein abundance of specific nuclear-encoded subunits in oxidative phosphorylation complexes I and V increased in CLPP2 knockouts, without accumulation of mitochondrial-encoded counterparts in the same complex. Complexes with subunits mainly or entirely encoded in the nucleus were unaffected. Analysis of protein import and function of complex I revealed that while function was retained, protein homeostasis was disrupted, leading to accumulation of soluble subcomplexes of nuclear-encoded subunits. Therefore, CLPP2 contributes to the mitochondrial protein degradation network through supporting coordination and homeostasis of protein complexes encoded across mitochondrial and nuclear genomes.
PXD018660	32572025	Chimeric design of pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase/tRNA pairs and canonical synthetase/tRNA pairs for genetic code expansion. 	Chimeric design of Pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase/tRNA pairs and canonical synthetase/tRNA pairs for genetic code expansion	chimeric design, genetic code expansion	An orthogonal aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase/tRNA pair is a crucial prerequisite for site-specific incorporation of unnatural amino acids. Due to its high codon suppression efficiency and full orthogonality, the pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase/pyrrolysyl-tRNA pair is currently the ideal system for genetic code expansion in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. There is a pressing need to discover or engineer other fully orthogonal translation systems. Here, through rational chimera design by transplanting the key orthogonal components from the pyrrolysine system, we create multiple chimeric tRNA synthetase/chimeric tRNA pairs, including chimera histidine, phenylalanine, and alanine systems. We further show that these engineered chimeric systems are orthogonal and highly efficient with comparable flexibility to the pyrrolysine system. Besides, the chimera phenylalanine system can incorporate a group of phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan analogues efficiently in both E. coli and mammalian cells. These aromatic amino acids analogous exhibit unique properties and characteristics, including fluorescence, post-translation modification.
PXD019367	32572026	Structural mechanism underlying primary and secondary coupling between GPCRs and the Gi/o family. 	Structural mechanism underlying primary and secondary coupling between GPCRs and the Gi/o family	G protein, GPCR, HDX-MS, primary couplling, secondary coupling	Heterotrimeric G proteins are categorized into four main families based on their function and sequence, Gs, Gi/o, Gq/11, and G12/13. One receptor can couple to more than one G protein subtype, and the coupling efficiency varies depending on the GPCR-G protein pair. However, the precise mechanism underlying different coupling efficiencies is unknown. Here, we study the structural mechanism underlying primary and secondary Gi/o coupling, using the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor type 2 (M2R) as the primary Gi/o-coupling receptor and the beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2AR, which primarily couples to Gs) as the secondary Gi/o-coupling receptor. Hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry and mutagenesis studies reveal that the engagement of the distal C-terminus of Galphai/o with the receptor differentiates primary and secondary Gi/o couplings. This study suggests that the conserved hydrophobic residue within the intracellular loop 2 of the receptor (residue 34.51) is not critical for primary Gi/o-coupling; however, it might be important for secondary Gi/o-coupling.
PXD012927	32572027	Interactome analysis reveals that lncRNA HULC promotes aerobic glycolysis through LDHA and PKM2. 	HULC interactome MS analysis  .	Gel-based proteomics, HULC, SILAC	Interacting with proteins is a crucial way for long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) to exert their biological responses. Here we report a high throughput strategy to characterize lncRNA interacting proteins in vivo by combining tobramycin affinity purification and mass spectrometric analysis (TOBAP-MS). Using this method, we identify 140 candidate binding proteins for lncRNA highly upregulated in liver cancer (HULC). Intriguingly, HULC directly binds to two glycolytic enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) and pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2). Mechanistic study suggests that HULC functions as an adaptor molecule that enhances the binding of LDHA and PKM2 to fibroblast growth factor receptor type 1 (FGFR1), leading to elevated phosphorylation of these two enzymes and consequently promoting glycolysis. This study provides a convenient method to study lncRNA interactome in vivo and reveals a unique mechanism by which HULC promotes Warburg effect by orchestrating the enzymatic activities of glycolytic enzymes.
PXD015702	32572232	CRISPR-assisted detection of RNA-protein interactions in living cells. 	CRISPR-Assisted Detection of RNA-Protein Interactions in Living Cells	CRISPR/CasRx, biotin ligase, lncRNAs	We have developed CRISPR-assisted RNA-protein interaction detection method (CARPID), which leverages CRISPR-CasRx-based RNA targeting and proximity labeling to identify binding proteins of specific long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in the native cellular context. We applied CARPID to the nuclear lncRNA XIST, and it captured a list of known interacting proteins and multiple previously uncharacterized binding proteins. We generalized CARPID to explore binders of the lncRNAs DANCR and MALAT1, revealing the method's wide applicability in identifying RNA-binding proteins.
PXD014981	32572255	Epigenetic priming by Dppa2 and 4 in pluripotency facilitates multi-lineage commitment. 	Dppa2/4 target chromatin bivalency enabling multi-lineage commitment	Bivalency, Compass, Development, Epigenetic Priming, Trithorax, qPLEX RIME	How the epigenetic landscape is established in development is still being elucidated. Here, we uncover developmental pluripotency associated 2 and 4 (DPPA2/4) as epigenetic priming factors that establish a permissive epigenetic landscape at a subset of developmentally important bivalent promoters characterized by low expression and poised RNA-polymerase. Differentiation assays reveal that Dppa2/4 double knockout mouse embryonic stem cells fail to exit pluripotency and differentiate efficiently. DPPA2/4 bind both H3K4me3-marked and bivalent gene promoters and associate with COMPASS- and Polycomb-bound chromatin. Comparing knockout and inducible knockdown systems, we find that acute depletion of DPPA2/4 results in rapid loss of H3K4me3 from key bivalent genes, while H3K27me3 is initially more stable but lost following extended culture. Consequently, upon DPPA2/4 depletion, these promoters gain DNA methylation and are unable to be activated upon differentiation. Our findings uncover a novel epigenetic priming mechanism at developmental promoters, poising them for future lineage-specific activation.
PXD018855	32572268	Tau molecular diversity contributes to clinical heterogeneity in Alzheimer's disease. 	Tau molecular diversity mediates clinical heterogeneity in Alzheimer's disease	Brain, QExactive	Alzheimer's disease (AD) causes unrelenting, progressive cognitive impairments, but its course is heterogeneous, with a broad range of rates of cognitive decline(1). The spread of tau aggregates (neurofibrillary tangles) across the cerebral cortex parallels symptom severity(2,3). We hypothesized that the kinetics of tau spread may vary if the properties of the propagating tau proteins vary across individuals. We carried out biochemical, biophysical, MS and both cell- and animal-based-bioactivity assays to characterize tau in 32 patients with AD. We found striking patient-to-patient heterogeneity in the hyperphosphorylated species of soluble, oligomeric, seed-competent tau. Tau seeding activity correlates with the aggressiveness of the clinical disease, and some post-translational modification (PTM) sites appear to be associated with both enhanced seeding activity and worse clinical outcomes, whereas others are not. These data suggest that different individuals with 'typical' AD may have distinct biochemical features of tau. These data are consistent with the possibility that individuals with AD, much like people with cancer, may have multiple molecular drivers of an otherwise common phenotype, and emphasize the potential for personalized therapeutic approaches for slowing clinical progression of AD.
PXD018778	32572646	Proteome-Wide Analyses Reveal the Diverse Functions of Lysine 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation in Oryza sativa. 	Proteome-wide analyses reveal the diverse functions of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation in Oryza sativa	Oryza sativa, histone acylation, lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, photosynthesis	BACKGROUND: Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib), a newly identified post-translational modification, is known to regulate transcriptional activity in animals. However, extensive studies of the lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylome in plants and animals have yet to be performed. RESULTS: In this study, using LC-MS/MS qualitative proteomics strategies, we identified 4163 Khib sites on 1596 modified proteins in rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings. Motif analysis revealed 10 conserved motifs flanking the Khib sites, and subcellular localization analysis revealed that 44% of the Khib proteins are localized in the chloroplast. Gene ontology function, KEGG pathway, and protein domain enrichment analyses revealed that Khib occurs on proteins involved in diverse biological processes and is especially enriched in carbon metabolism and photosynthesis. Among the modified proteins, 20 Khib sites were identified in histone H2A and H2B, while only one site was identified in histone H4. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis further demonstrated that Khib participates in diverse biological processes including ribosomal activity, biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, and metabolic pathways. In addition, a comparison of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, acetylation, and crotonylation in the rice proteome showed that 45 proteins with only 26 common lysine sites are commonly modified by three PTMs. The crosstalk of modified sites and PPI among these PTMs may form a complex network with both similar and different regulatory mechanisms. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our study comprehensively profiles the lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylome in rice and provides a better understanding of its biological functions in plants.
PXD018701	32573437	Moyamoya disease factor RNF213 is a giant E3 ligase with a dynein-like core and a distinct ubiquitin-transfer mechanism. 	Moyamoya disease factor RNF213 is a giant E3 ligase with a dynein-like core and a distinct ubiquitin-transfer mechanism	E3-ligase, RNF213	RNF213 is the major susceptibility factor for Moyamoya disease, a progressive cerebrovascular disorder that often leads to brain stroke in adults and children. Characterization of disease-associated mutations has been complicated by the enormous size of RNF213. Here, we present the cryo-EM structure of mouse RNF213. The structure reveals the intricate fold of the 584 kDa protein, comprising an N-terminal stalk, a dynein-like core with six ATPase units, and a multidomain E3 module. Collaboration with UbcH7, a cysteine-reactive E2, points to an unexplored ubiquitin-transfer mechanism that proceeds in a RING-independent manner. Moreover, we show that pathologic MMD mutations cluster in the composite E3 domain, likely interfering with substrate ubiquitination. In conclusion, the structure of RNF213 uncovers a distinct type of an E3 enzyme, highlighting the growing mechanistic diversity in ubiquitination cascades. Our results also provide the molecular framework for investigating the emerging role of RNF213 in lipid metabolism, hypoxia, and angiogenesis.
PXD019924	32575903	Pilot Multi-Omic Analysis of Human Bile from Benign and Malignant Biliary Strictures: A Machine-Learning Approach. 	Biomarkers of Cholangiocarcinoma and Pancreatic adenocarcinoma	Human bile, cholangiocarcinoma, lipidomics, machine learning, pancreatic adenocarcinoma	Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) and pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) may lead to the development of extrahepatic obstructive cholestasis. However, biliary stenoses can also be caused by benign conditions, and the identification of their etiology still remains a clinical challenge. We performed metabolomic and proteomic analyses of bile from patients with benign (n = 36) and malignant conditions, CCA (n = 36) or PDAC (n = 57), undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with the aim of characterizing bile composition in biliopancreatic disease and identifying biomarkers for the differential diagnosis of biliary strictures. Comprehensive analyses of lipids, bile acids and small molecules were carried out using mass spectrometry (MS) and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-NMR) in all patients. MS analysis of bile proteome was performed in five patients per group. We implemented artificial intelligence tools for the selection of biomarkers and algorithms with predictive capacity. Our machine-learning pipeline included the generation of synthetic data with properties of real data, the selection of potential biomarkers (metabolites or proteins) and their analysis with neural networks (NN). Selected biomarkers were then validated with real data. We identified panels of lipids (n = 10) and proteins (n = 5) that when analyzed with NN algorithms discriminated between patients with and without cancer with an unprecedented accuracy.
PXD017759	32575983	Top-Down Proteomics of Human Saliva Discloses Significant Variations of the Protein Profile in Patients with Mastocytosis. 	HPLC-ESI-MS PROFILE OF SALIVARY PROTEINS IN MASTOCYTOSIS PATIENTS	HPLC-MSMS, mastocytosis, salivary proteins	Mastocytosis is a myeloproliferative neoplasm causing abnormal clonal mast cell accumulation in different tissues, such as skin and bone marrow. A cutaneous subtype (CM) is distinguished from a systemic one (SM); SM patients can be grouped into SM with (SM+C) or without (SM-C) additional cutaneous lesions, and their classification is often challenging. This study was purposed to highlight variations in the salivary proteome of patients with different mastocytosis subtypes and compared to healthy controls. A top-down proteomics approach coupled to a label-free quantitation revealed salivary profiles in patients different from those of controls and a down-regulation of peptides/proteins involved in the mouth homeostasis and defense, such as statherin, histatins, and acidic proline-rich proteins (aPRPs), and in innate immunity and inflammation, such as the cathepsin inhibitors, suggesting a systemic condition associated with an exacerbated inflammatory state. The up-regulation of antileukoproteinase and S100A8 suggested a protective role against the disease status. The two SM forms were distinguished by the lower levels of truncated forms of aPRPs, statherin, P-B peptide, and cystatin D and the higher levels of thymosin beta4 and alpha-defensins 1 and 4 in SM-C patients with respect to SM+C. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017759.
PXD015936	32576196	ZNF322A-mediated protein phosphorylation induces autophagosome formation through modulation of IRS1-AKT glucose uptake and HSP-elicited UPR in lung cancer. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis uncovers the regulatory networks of ZNF322A in lung cancer cells	Human lung cancer, ZNF322A, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: ZNF322A is an oncogenic transcription factor that belongs to the Cys2His2-type zinc-finger protein family. Accumulating evidence suggests that ZNF322A may contribute to the tumorigenesis of lung cancer, however, the ZNF322A-mediated downstream signaling pathways remain unknown. METHODS: To uncover ZNF322A-mediated functional network, we applied phosphopeptide enrichment and isobaric labeling strategies with mass spectrometry-based proteomics using A549 lung cancer cells, and analyzed the differentially expressed proteins of phosphoproteomic and proteomic profiles to determine ZNF322A-modulated pathways. RESULTS: ZNF322A highlighted a previously unidentified insulin signaling, heat stress, and signal attenuation at the post-translational level. Consistently, protein-phosphoprotein-kinase interaction network analysis revealed phosphorylation of IRS1 and HSP27 were altered upon ZNF322A-silenced lung cancer cells. Thus, we further investigated the molecular regulation of ZNF322A, and found the inhibitory transcriptional regulation of ZNF322A on PIM3, which was able to phosphorylate IRS1 at serine(1101) in order to manipulate glucose uptake via the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. Moreover, ZNF322A also affects the unfolded protein response by phosphorylation of HSP27(S82) and eIF2a(S51), and triggers autophagosome formation in lung cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: These findings not only give new information about the molecular regulation of the cellular proteins through ZNF322A at the post-translational level, but also provides a resource for the study of lung cancer therapy.
PXD013408	32576205	Phosphoproteomics of short-term hedgehog signaling in human medulloblastoma cells. 	Phosphoproteomics of induced and inhibited early Hh signaling in human medulloblastoma cells	DAOY cells, Hedgehog signaling, Medulloblastoma, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: Aberrant hedgehog (HH) signaling is implicated in the development of various cancer entities such as medulloblastoma. Activation of GLI transcription factors was revealed as the driving force upon pathway activation. Increased phosphorylation of essential effectors such as Smoothened (SMO) and GLI proteins by kinases including Protein Kinase A, Casein Kinase 1, and Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 beta controls effector activity, stability and processing. However, a deeper and more comprehensive understanding of phosphorylation in the signal transduction remains unclear, particularly during early response processes involved in SMO activation and preceding GLI target gene regulation. METHODS: We applied temporal quantitative phosphoproteomics to reveal phosphorylation dynamics underlying the short-term chemical activation and inhibition of early hedgehog signaling in HH responsive human medulloblastoma cells. Medulloblastoma cells were treated for 5.0 and 15 min with Smoothened Agonist (SAG) to induce and with vismodegib to inhibit the HH pathway. RESULTS: Our phosphoproteomic profiling resulted in the quantification of 7700 and 10,000 phosphosites after 5.0 and 15 min treatment, respectively. The data suggest a central role of phosphorylation in the regulation of ciliary assembly, trafficking, and signal transduction already after 5.0 min treatment. ERK/MAPK signaling, besides Protein Kinase A signaling and mTOR signaling, were differentially regulated after short-term treatment. Activation of Polo-like Kinase 1 and inhibition of Casein Kinase 2A1 were characteristic for vismodegib treatment, while SAG treatment induced Aurora Kinase A activity. Distinctive phosphorylation of central players of HH signaling such as SMO, SUFU, GLI2 and GLI3 was observed only after 15 min treatment. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides evidence that phosphorylation triggered in response to SMO modulation dictates the localization of hedgehog pathway components within the primary cilium and affects the regulation of the SMO-SUFU-GLI axis. The data are relevant for the development of targeted therapies of HH-associated cancers including sonic HH-type medulloblastoma. A deeper understanding of the mechanisms of action of SMO inhibitors such as vismodegib may lead to the development of compounds causing fewer adverse effects and lower frequencies of drug resistance. Video Abstract.
PXD014382	32576959	TGFbeta activity released from platelet-rich fibrin adsorbs to titanium surface and collagen membranes. 	TGFbeta activity released from platelet-rich fibrin adsorbs to titanium surface and collagen membranes	Growth factor, Platelet-rich, fibrin dental implants	Platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) contains a broad spectrum of bioactive molecules that can trigger several cellular responses. However, these molecules along with their upstream responses remain mostly uninvestigated. By means of proteomics we revealed that PRF lysates contain more than 650 proteins, being TGF-beta one of the few growth factors found. To uncover the major target genes regulated by PRF lysates, gingival fibroblasts were exposed to lysates obtained from PRF membranes followed by a whole genome array. We identified 51 genes strongly regulated by PRF including IL11, NOX4 and PRG4 which are characteristic TGF-beta target genes. RT-PCR and immunoassay analysis confirmed the TGF-beta receptor I kinase-dependent increased expression of IL11, NOX4 and PRG4. The PRF-derived TGF-beta activity was verified by the translocation of Smad2/3 into the nucleus along with the increased phosphorylation of Smad3. Considering that PRF is clinically used in combination with dental implants and collagen membranes, we showed here that PRF-derived TGF-beta activity adsorbs to titanium implants and collagen membranes indicated by the changes in gene expression and immunoassay analysis. Our study points towards TGF-beta as major target of PRF and suggest that TGF-beta activity released by PRF adsorbs to titanium surface and collagen membranes.
PXD014795	32576963	Frequent mutations in the amino-terminal domain of BCL7A impair its tumor suppressor role in DLBCL. 	Frequent mutations on amino-terminal BCL7A domain compromise its tumor suppressor role in DLBCL.	BCL7A, DLBCL, SWI/SNF	Mutations in genes encoding subunits of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex are frequently found in different human cancers. While the tumor suppressor function of this complex is widely established in solid tumors, its role in hematologic malignancies is largely unknown. Recurrent point mutations in BCL7A gene, encoding a subunit of the SWI/SNF complex, have been reported in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), but their functional impact remains to be elucidated. Here we show that BCL7A often undergoes biallelic inactivation, including a previously unnoticed mutational hotspot in the splice donor site of intron one. The splice site mutations render a truncated BCL7A protein, lacking a portion of the amino-terminal domain. Moreover, restoration of wild-type BCL7A expression elicits a tumor suppressor-like phenotype in vitro and in vivo. In contrast, splice site mutations block the tumor suppressor function of BCL7A by preventing its binding to the SWI/SNF complex. We also show that BCL7A restoration induces transcriptomic changes in genes involved in B-cell activation. In addition, we report that SWI/SNF complex subunits harbor mutations in more than half of patients with germinal center B-cell (GCB)-DLBCL. Overall, this work demonstrates the tumor suppressor function of BCL7A in DLBCL, and highlights that the SWI/SNF complex plays a relevant role in DLBCL pathogenesis.
PXD017505	32579115	Differential accumulation of storage bodies with aging defines discrete subsets of microglia in the healthy brain. 	Autofluorescence positive and negative microglia constitute novel subsets found in healthy brain.	aging, autofluorescence, autophagy, lipofuscin, microglia, storage-bodies	To date, microglia subsets in the healthy CNS have not been identified. Utilizing autofluorescence (AF) as a discriminating parameter, we identified two novel microglia subsets in both mice and non-human primates, termed autofluorescence-positive (AF(+)) and negative (AF(-)). While their proportion remained constant throughout most adult life, the AF signal linearly and specifically increased in AF(+) microglia with age and correlated with a commensurate increase in size and complexity of lysosomal storage bodies, as detected by transmission electron microscopy and LAMP1 levels. Post-depletion repopulation kinetics revealed AF(-) cells as likely precursors of AF(+) microglia. At the molecular level, the proteome of AF(+) microglia showed overrepresentation of endolysosomal, autophagic, catabolic, and mTOR-related proteins. Mimicking the effect of advanced aging, genetic disruption of lysosomal function accelerated the accumulation of storage bodies in AF(+) cells and led to impaired microglia physiology and cell death, suggestive of a mechanistic convergence between aging and lysosomal storage disorders.
PXD012315	32579327	Interaction of Staphylococcus aureus and Host Cells upon Infection of Bronchial Epithelium during Different Stages of Regeneration. 	A miRNA-mediated cellular network controls Legionella pneumophila replication in human macrophages via regulation of LGALS8 and MX1	Legionella pneumophila, SILAC, bacteria, infection, macrophage, miRNA	The primary barrier that protects our lungs against infection by pathogens is a tightly sealed layer of epithelial cells. When the integrity of this barrier is disrupted as a consequence of chronic pulmonary diseases or viral insults, bacterial pathogens will gain access to underlying tissues. A major pathogen that can take advantage of such conditions is Staphylococcus aureus, thereby causing severe pneumonia. In this study, we investigated how S. aureus responds to different conditions of the human epithelium, especially nonpolarization and fibrogenesis during regeneration using an in vitro infection model. The infective process was monitored by quantification of the epithelial cell and bacterial populations, fluorescence microscopy, and mass spectrometry. The results uncover differences in bacterial internalization and population dynamics that correlate with the outcome of infection. Protein profiling reveals that, irrespective of the polarization state of the epithelial cells, the invading bacteria mount similar responses to adapt to the intracellular milieu. Remarkably, a bacterial adaptation that was associated with the regeneration state of the epithelial cells concerned the early upregulation of proteins controlled by the redox-responsive regulator Rex when bacteria were confronted with a polarized cell layer. This is indicative of the modulation of the bacterial cytoplasmic redox state to maintain homeostasis early during infection even before internalization. Our present observations provide a deeper insight into how S. aureus can take advantage of a breached epithelial barrier and show that infected epithelial cells have limited ability to respond adequately to staphylococcal insults.
PXD018794	32579915	Precise Temporal Regulation of Post-transcriptional Repressors Is Required for an Orderly Drosophila Maternal-to-Zygotic Transition. 	Precise temporal regulation of post-transcriptional repressors is required for an orderly Drosophila maternal-to-zygotic transition	C-terminal to Lis1 Homology (CTLH) complex, RNA-binding protein, Skp/Cullin/F-box-containing (SCF) complex, Smaug, ubiquitin ligase	In animal embryos, the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT) hands developmental control from maternal to zygotic gene products. We show that the maternal proteome represents more than half of the protein-coding capacity of Drosophila melanogaster's genome, and that 2% of this proteome is rapidly degraded during the MZT. Cleared proteins include the post-transcriptional repressors Cup, Trailer hitch (TRAL), Maternal expression at 31B (ME31B), and Smaug (SMG). Although the ubiquitin-proteasome system is necessary for clearance of these repressors, distinct E3 ligase complexes target them: the C-terminal to Lis1 Homology (CTLH) complex targets Cup, TRAL, and ME31B for degradation early in the MZT and the Skp/Cullin/F-box-containing (SCF) complex targets SMG at the end of the MZT. Deleting the C-terminal 233 amino acids of SMG abrogates F-box protein interaction and confers immunity to degradation. Persistent SMG downregulates zygotic re-expression of mRNAs whose maternal contribution is degraded by SMG. Thus, clearance of SMG permits an orderly MZT.
PXD019411	32579937	Site-Specific Incorporation of Two ncAAs for Two-Color Bioorthogonal Labeling and Crosslinking of Proteins on Live Mammalian Cells. 	Site-specific incorporation of two noncanonical amino acids in GFP	Chemical Biology, GFP, bio-orthogonal labeling, noncanonical amino acids	The pyrrolysyl-tRNA/pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase (PylT/RS) pair from the archaeon Methanosarcina mazei (Mma) is widely used in protein engineering to site-specifically introduce noncanonical amino acids (ncAAs) through nonsense codon suppression. Here, we engineer the PylT/RS pair encoded by Methanogenic archaeon ISO4-G1 (G1) to be orthogonal to Mma PylT/RS and alter the G1 PylRS active site to accept a complementary ncAA spectrum. We combine the resulting mutual orthogonal pairs for site-specific dual ncAA incorporation of two lysine analogs with high selectivity and efficiency. Demonstrating the robustness of the system, we incorporate two ncAAs with compatible bioorthogonal reactivity into a Notch receptor, as well as a G protein-coupled receptor. We show that selective and site-specific incorporation of two ncAAs allows for two-color bioorthogonal labeling as well as chemical-controlled crosslinking of surface proteins on live mammalian cells.
PXD019580	32580523	Immunoreactive Proteins in the Esophageal Gland Cells of Anisakis Simplex Sensu Stricto Detected by MALDI-TOF/TOF Analysis. 	Immunoreactive proteins in the oesophageal gland cells of Anisakis simplex sensu stricto detected by MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis	Anisakis simplex, allergens, excretion, oesphageal glands, secretion	In plant and animal nematode parasites, proteins derived from esophageal gland cells have been shown to be important in the host-nematodes relationship but little is known about the allergenic potential of these proteins in the genus Anisakis. Taking into account the increase of anisakiasis and allergies related to these nematodes, immunoreactive properties of gland cell proteins were investigated. Two hundred ventricles were manually dissected from L3 stage larvae of Aniskakis simplex s.s. to allow direct protein analysis. Denaturing gel electrophoresis followed by monochromatic silver staining which revealed the presence of differential (enriched) proteins when compared to total nematode extracts. Such comparison was performed by means of 1D and 2D electrophoresis. Pooled antisera from Anisakis spp.-allergic patients were used in western blots revealing the presence of 13 immunoreactive bands in the ventricular extracts in 1D, with 82 spots revealed in 2D. The corresponding protein bands and spots were excised from the silver-stained gel and protein assignation was made by MALDI-TOF/TOF. A total of 13 (including proteoforms) were unambiguously identified. The majority of these proteins are known to be secreted by nematodes into the external environment, of which three are described as being major allergens in other organisms with different phylogenetic origin and one is an Anisakis simplex allergen.
PXD018909	32581039	Proteomics of Galapagos Marine Iguanas Links Function of Femoral Gland Proteins to the Immune System. 	Proteomics of Galpagos marine iguanas links function of femoral gland proteins to the immune system	Iguana Proteomics Galapagos femoral gland immune	Communication between individuals via molecules, termed chemosignaling, is widespread among animal and plant species. However, we lack knowledge on the specific functions of the substances involved for most systems. The femoral gland is an organ that secretes a waxy substance involved in chemical communication in lizards. Although the lipids and volatile substances secreted by the femoral glands have been investigated in several biochemical studies, the protein composition and functions of secretions remain completely unknown. Applying a proteomic approach, we provide the first attempt to comprehensively characterize the protein composition of femoral gland secretions from the Galapagos marine iguana. Using samples from several organs, the marine iguana proteome was assembled by next-generation sequencing and MS, resulting in 7513 proteins. Of these, 4305 proteins were present in the femoral gland, including keratins, small serum proteins, and fatty acid-binding proteins. Surprisingly, no proteins with discernible roles in partner recognition or inter-species communication could be identified. However, we did find several proteins with direct associations to the innate immune system, including lysozyme C, antileukoproteinase (ALP), pulmonary surfactant protein (SFTPD), and galectin (LGALS1) suggesting that the femoral glands function as an important barrier to infection. Furthermore, we report several novel anti-microbial peptides from the femoral glands that show similar action against Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis such as oncocin, a peptide known for its effectiveness against Gram-negative pathogens. This proteomics data set is a valuable resource for future functional protein analysis and demonstrates that femoral gland secretions also perform functions of the innate immune system.
PXD019208	32581105	Protein S-Nitrosylation of Human Cytomegalovirus pp71 Inhibits Its Ability To Limit STING Antiviral Responses. 	Protein S-Nitrosylation of host and viral proteins upon fibroblast infection with Human Cytomegalovirus	HCMV, Protein S-Nitrosylation, cytomegalovirus	Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous pathogen that has coevolved with its host and, in doing so, is highly efficient in undermining antiviral responses that limit successful infections. As a result, HCMV infections are highly problematic in individuals with weakened or underdeveloped immune systems, including transplant recipients and newborns. Understanding how HCMV controls the microenvironment of an infected cell so as to favor productive replication is of critical importance. To this end, we took an unbiased proteomics approach to identify the highly reversible, stress-induced, posttranslational modification (PTM) protein S-nitrosylation on viral proteins to determine the biological impact on viral replication. We identified protein S-nitrosylation of 13 viral proteins during infection of highly permissive fibroblasts. One of these proteins, pp71, is critical for efficient viral replication, as it undermines host antiviral responses, including stimulator of interferon genes (STING) activation. By exploiting site-directed mutagenesis of the specific amino acids we identified in pp71 as protein S-nitrosylated, we found this pp71 PTM diminishes its ability to undermine antiviral responses induced by the STING pathway. Our results suggest a model in which protein S-nitrosylation may function as a host response to viral infection that limits viral spread.IMPORTANCE In order for a pathogen to establish a successful infection, it must undermine the host cell responses inhibitory to the pathogen. As such, herpesviruses encode multiple viral proteins that antagonize each host antiviral response, thereby allowing for efficient viral replication. Human Cytomegalovirus encodes several factors that limit host countermeasures to infection, including pp71. Herein, we identified a previously unreported posttranslational modification of pp71, protein S-nitrosylation. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we mutated the specific sites of this modification thereby blocking this pp71 posttranslational modification. In contexts where pp71 is not protein S-nitrosylated, host antiviral response was inhibited. The net result of this posttranslational modification is to render a viral protein with diminished abilities to block host responses to infection. This novel work supports a model in which protein S-nitrosylation may be an additional mechanism in which a cell inhibits a pathogen during the course of infection.
PXD014832	32581239	mTOR and S6K1 drive polycystic kidney by the control of Afadin-dependent oriented cell division. 	S6K1 Phosphoproteome in Tsc1-null mouse kidney iMCD3 cells	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Kidney, Phosphoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: Kidney Urine (B/D-HPP), S6k1, Tsc1, mTOR	mTOR activation is essential and sufficient to cause polycystic kidneys in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) and other genetic disorders. In disease models, a sharp increase of proliferation and cyst formation correlates with a dramatic loss of oriented cell division (OCD). We find that OCD distortion is intrinsically due to S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) activation. The concomitant loss of S6K1 in Tsc1-mutant mice restores OCD but does not decrease hyperproliferation, leading to non-cystic harmonious hyper growth of kidneys. Mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics for S6K1 substrates revealed Afadin, a known component of cell-cell junctions required to couple intercellular adhesions and cortical cues to spindle orientation. Afadin is directly phosphorylated by S6K1 and abnormally decorates the apical surface of Tsc1-mutant cells with E-cadherin and alpha-catenin. Our data reveal that S6K1 hyperactivity alters centrosome positioning in mitotic cells, affecting oriented cell division and promoting kidney cysts in conditions of mTOR hyperactivity.
PXD018775	32582109	Effect of Nitrosative Stress on the S-Nitroso-Proteome of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. 	Effect of Nitrosative Stress on the S-nitroso-Proteome of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis	Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, S-nitroso-proteome, S-nitrosylation, nitric oxide	The fungi Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and Paracoccidioides lutzii are the causative agents of paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM), a systemic mycosis endemic to Latin America. This fungus is considered a facultative intracellular pathogen that is able to survive and replicate inside macrophages. The survival of the fungus during infection depends on its adaptability to various conditions, such as nitrosative/oxidative stress produced by the host immune cells, particularly alveolar macrophages. Currently, there is little knowledge about the Paracoccidioides spp. signaling pathways involved in the fungus evasion mechanism of the host defense response. However, it is known that some of these pathways are triggered by reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species (ROS/RNS) produced by host cells. Considering that the effects of NO (nitric oxide) on pathogens are concentration dependent, such effects could alter the redox state of cysteine residues by influencing (activating or inhibiting) a variety of protein functions, notably S-nitrosylation, a highly important NO-dependent posttranslational modification that regulates cellular functions and signaling pathways. It has been demonstrated by our group that P. brasiliensis yeast cells proliferate when exposed to low NO concentrations. Thus, this work investigated the modulation profile of S-nitrosylated proteins of P. brasiliensis, as well as identifying S-nitrosylation sites after treatment with RNS. Through mass spectrometry analysis (LC-MS/MS) and label-free quantification, it was possible to identify 474 proteins in the S-nitrosylated proteome study. With this approach, we observed that proteins treated with NO at low concentrations presented a proliferative response pattern, with several proteins involved in cellular cycle regulation and growth being activated. These proteins appear to play important roles in fungal virulence. On the other hand, fungus stimulated by high NO concentrations exhibited a survival response pattern. Among these S-nitrosylated proteins we identified several potential molecular targets for fungal disease therapy, including cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway, amino acid and folic acid metabolisms. In addition, we detected that the transnitrosylation/denitrosylation redox signaling are preserved in this fungus. Finally, this work may help to uncover the beneficial and antifungal properties of NO in the P. brasiliensis and point to useful targets for the development of antifungal drugs.
PXD019333	32582122	Comparative Proteome Analysis of Shewanella putrefaciens WS13 Mature Biofilm Under Cold Stress. 	Comparative Proteome Analysis of Shewanella putrefaciens WS13 Mature Biofilm under Cold Stress	Shewanella putrefaciens, biofilm, cold stress, food spoilage, psychrotrophic bacteria	Worldwide, Shewanella putrefaciens is the predominant seafood spoilage microorganism during cold storage. This bacterium can attach to biotic/abiotic surfaces to form biofilms which contribute to seafood quality degradation and shelf-life reduction. The mechanism of S. putrefaciens biofilm formation is not yet described. Crystal violet staining in combination with confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) was used to study the sequence of events leading to the establishment of a mature biofilm at 4, 15, and 30degreesC. In addition, the main chemical constituents of the mature biofilm were determined by Raman spectroscopy (RM), whereas, comparative proteomic analysis was used to quantify changes in metabolic pathways and to find out underlying protein determinants. The physical dimensions of the mature biofilm, i.e., biomass, biovolume, and mean thickness, were higher at 4degreesC when compared to 15 and 30degreesC. The variations of proteins measured by RM confirmed the importance of proteins during the formation of a mature biofilm. Comparative proteomic analysis showed that siderophore and iron chelate transport proteins were down-regulated during mature biofilm formation. The down-regulated aforementioned proteins are involved in promoting iron storage in response to a higher demand for metabolic energy, whereas, the upregulated proteins of the sulfur relay system, pyrimidine metabolism, and purine metabolism are related to bacterial adaptability. Synthesis of proteins related to cold stress was increased and proteins involved in aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis were up-regulated, whereas, proteins involved in aminopeptidase activity were down-regulated. Proteolysis to scavenge energy was reduced as proteins involved in pyrophosphatase activity were up-regulated. Also extracellular eDNA was found which may play an important role in maintaining the stability of mature S. putrefaciens biofilm structures under cold stress. This work provides a better understanding of the role of proteins in mature biofilms. In addition, the biofilm formation mechanism of a psychrotrophic spoilage bacterial species at low temperature is explored, which may contribute to generating biofilm controlling strategies during seafood preservation and processing.
PXD018508	32582128	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Adhesion/Invasion Related Proteins in Cronobacter sakazakii Based on Data-Independent Acquisition Coupled With LC-MS/MS. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of virulence proteins in Cronobacter sakazakii based on data-independent acquisition coupled with LC-MS/MS	Cronobacter sakazakii	Cronobacter sakazakii is foodborne pathogen that causes serious illnesses such as necrotizing enterocolitis, meningitis and septicemia in infants. However, the virulence determinants and mechanisms of pathogenicity of these species remain unclear. In this study, multilocus sequence typing (MLST) was performed on 34 C. sakazakii strains and two strains with the same sequence type (ST) but distinct adhesion/invasion capabilities were selected for identification of differentially expressed proteins using data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomic analysis. A total of 2,203 proteins were identified and quantified. Among these proteins, 210 exhibited differential expression patterns with abundance ratios >=3 or <=0.33 and P values <=0.05. Among these 210 proteins, 67 were expressed higher, and 143 were expressed lower in C. sakazakii SAKA80220 (strongly adhesive/invasive strain) compared with C. sakazakii SAKA80221 (weakly adhesive/invasive strain). Based on a detailed analysis of the differentially expressed proteins, the highly expressed genes involved in flagellar assembly, lipopolysaccharide synthesis, LuxS/AI-2, energy metabolic pathways and iron-sulfur cluster may be associated with the adhesion/invasion capability of C. sakazakii. To verify the accuracy of the proteomic results, real-time qPCR was used to analyze the expression patterns of some genes at the transcriptional level, and consistent results were observed. This study, for the first time, used DIA proteomic to investigate potential adhesion/invasion related factors as a useful reference for further studies on the pathogenic mechanism of C. sakazakii.
PXD018652	32582187	Deficiency of STING Promotes Collagen-Specific Antibody Production and B Cell Survival in Collagen-Induced Arthritis. 	Protein expression of Isolated B cells from splenocytes in collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model between Wildtype (C57BL/6) and Stinggt/gt mice.	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Quantitative proteomics, Sting, collagen-induced arthritis	The levels of interferon-alpha are high in the serum and synovial fluid of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Activation of the stimulator of type I interferon genes (STING) mediates the productions of type I interferon and promotes chronic inflammation. STING plays a significant role in autoimmune lupus mice. However, the function of STING in collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model has never been described. This study aimed to test the function of STING in CIA. The Sting-deficient mice developed arthritis comparable to WT mice. The levels of anti-collagen antibody from Sting-deficient mice were significantly higher than the WT mice. The B cells derived from Sting-deficient mice showed better survival than WT mice in response to the B cell receptor (BCR) stimulation. Activation of STING also induced B cell death, especially in activated B cells. This study demonstrated that the inhibition of STING promotes anti-collagen antibodies and B cell survival, which suggested that STING acts as a negative regulator of B cell function in the CIA model.
PXD015939	32582192	Absence of miRNA-146a Differentially Alters Microglia Function and Proteome. 	Data in support of Absence of miRNA-146a differentially alters microglia function and proteome	microglia, multiple sclerosis	Background: MiR-146a is an important regulator of innate inflammatory responses and is also implicated in cell death and survival. Methods: By sorting CNS resident cells, microglia were the main cellular source of miR-146a. Therefore, we investigated microglia function and phenotype in miR-146a knock-out (KO) mice, analyzed the proteome of KO and wild-type (WT) microglia by LC-MS/MS, and examined miR-146a expression in different brain lesions of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Results: When stimulated with LPS or myelin in vitro, microglia from KO mice expressed higher levels of IL-1beta, TNF, IL-6, IL-10, CCL3, and CCL2 compared to WT. Stimulation increased migration and phagocytosis of WT but not KO microglia. CD11c(+) microglia were induced by cuprizone (CPZ) in the WT mice but less in the KO. The proteome of ex vivo microglia was not different in miR-146a KO compared to WT mice, but CPZ treatment induced differential and reduced protein responses in the KO: GOT1, COX5b, CRYL1, and cystatin-C were specifically changed in KO microglia. We explored discriminative features of microglia proteomes: sparse Partial Least Squares-Discriminant Analysis showed the best discrimination when control and CPZ-treated conditions were compared. Cluster of ten proteins separated WT and miR-146a KO microglia after CPZ: among them were sensomes allowing to perceive the environment, Atp1a3 that belongs to the signature of CD11c(+) microglia, and proteins related to inflammatory responses (S100A9, Ppm1g). Finally, we examined the expression of miR-146a and its validated target genes in different brain lesions of MS patients. MiR-146 was upregulated in all lesion types, and the highest expression was in active lesions. Nineteen of 88 validated target genes were significantly changed in active lesions, while none were changed in NAWM. Conclusion: Our data indicated that microglia is the major source of miR-146a in the CNS. The absence of miR-146a differentially affected microglia function and proteome, and miR-146a may play an important role in gene regulation of active MS lesions.
PXD016456	32582227	Mobilization and Cellular Distribution of Phosphate in the Diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. 	Mobilization and cellular distribution of phosphate in the diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum	Phaeodactylum tricornutum	Unicellular organisms that live in marine environments must cope with considerable fluctuations in the availability of inorganic phosphate (Pi). Here, we investigated the extracellular Pi concentration-dependent expression, as well as the intracellular or extracellular localization, of phosphatases and phosphate transporters of the diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. We identified Pi-regulated plasma membrane-localized, ER-localized, and secreted phosphatases, in addition to plasma membrane-localized, vacuolar membrane-localized, and plastid-surrounding membrane-localized phosphate transporters that were also regulated in a Pi concentration-dependent manner. These studies not only add further knowledge to already existing transcriptomic data, but also highlight the capacity of the diatom to distribute Pi intracellularly and to mobilize Pi from extracellular and intracellular resources.
PXD016434	32582685	The Immunomodulatory Signature of Extracellular Vesicles From Cardiosphere-Derived Cells: A Proteomic and miRNA Profiling. 	Extracellular vesicles (EV) from IFNgamma-primed cardiosphere-derived cells (CDCs)	CDCs, EV, IFNgamma, pig	Experimental data demonstrated that the regenerative potential and immunomodulatory capacity of cardiosphere-derived cells (CDCs) is mediated by paracrine mechanisms. In this process, extracellular vesicles derived from CDCs (EV-CDCs) are key mediators of their therapeutic effect. Considering the future applicability of these vesicles in human diseases, an accurate preclinical-to-clinical translation is needed, as well as an exhaustive molecular characterization of animal-derived therapeutic products. Based on that, the main goal of this study was to perform a comprehensive characterization of proteins and miRNAs in extracellular vesicles from porcine CDCs as a clinically relevant animal model. The analysis was performed by identification and quantification of proteins and miRNA expression profiles. Our results revealed the presence of clusters of immune-related and cardiac-related molecular biomarkers in EV-CDCs. Additionally, considering that priming stem cells with inflammatory stimuli may increase the therapeutic potential of released vesicles, here we studied the dynamic changes that occur in the extracellular vesicles from IFNgamma-primed CDCs. These analyses detected statistically significant changes in several miRNAs and proteins. Notably, the increase in interleukin 6 (IL6) protein, as well as the increase in mir-125b (that targets IL6 receptor) was especially relevant. These results suggest a potential involvement of EV-CDCs in the regulation of the IL6/IL6R axis, with implications in inflammatory-mediated diseases.
PXD017979	32582686	Reprogramming of Lipid Metabolism as a New Driving Force Behind Tauroursodeoxycholic Acid-Induced Neural Stem Cell Proliferation. 	Tauroursodeoxycholic acid-induced neural stem cell proliferation	Neuronal stem cells	Recent evidence suggests that neural stem cell (NSC) fate is highly dependent on mitochondrial bioenergetics. Tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), an endogenous neuroprotective bile acid and a metabolic regulator, stimulates NSC proliferation and enhances adult NSC pool in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we dissected the mechanism triggered by this proliferation-inducing molecule, namely in mediating metabolic reprogramming. Liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS) based detection of differential proteomics revealed that TUDCA reduces the mitochondrial levels of the long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCAD), an enzyme crucial for beta-oxidation of long-chain fatty acids (FA). TUDCA impact on NSC mitochondrial proteome was further confirmed, including in neurogenic regions of adult rats. We show that LCAD raises throughout NSC differentiation, while its silencing promotes NSC proliferation. In contrast, nuclear levels of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP-1), a major transcription factor of lipid biosynthesis, changes in the opposite manner of LCAD, being upregulated by TUDCA. In addition, alterations in some metabolic intermediates, such as palmitic acid, also supported the TUDCA-induced de novo lipogenesis. More interestingly, a metabolic shift from FA to glucose catabolism appears to occur in TUDCA-treated NSCs, since mitochondrial levels of pyruvate dehydrogenase E1-alpha (PDHE1-alpha) were significant enhanced by TUDCA. At last, the mitochondria-nucleus translocation of PDHE1-alpha was potentiated by TUDCA, associated with an increase of H3-histones and acetylated forms. In conclusion, TUDCA-induced proliferation of NSCs involves metabolic plasticity and mitochondria-nucleus crosstalk, in which nuclear PDHE1-alpha might be required to assure pyruvate-derived acetyl-CoA for histone acetylation and NSC cycle progression.
PXD018439	32583429	A positive pressure workstation for semi-automated peptide purification of complex proteomic samples. 	Time-resolved proteomic profiling for CHO-K1 fed-batch cultivations	CHO, DDA, Fedbatch cultivation, nLC-MS/MS	RATIONALE: High-throughput reliable data generation has become a substantial requirement in many "omics" investigations. In proteomics the sample preparation workflow consists of multiple steps adding more bias to the sample with each additional manual step. Especially for label-free quantification experiments, this drastically impedes reproducible quantification of proteins in replicates. Here, a positive pressure workstation was evaluated to increase automation of sample preparation and reduce workload as well as consumables. METHODS: Digested peptide samples were purified utilizing a new semi-automated sample preparation device, the Resolvex A200, followed by nanospray liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization (nLC/ESI) Orbitrap tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) measurements. In addition, the sorbents Maestro and WWP2 (available in conventional cartridge and dual-chamber narrow-bore extraction columns) were compared with Sep-Pak C18 cartridges. Raw data was analyzed by MaxQuant and Perseus software. RESULTS: The semi-automated workflow with the Resolvex A200 workstation and both new sorbents produced highly reproducible results within 10-300 mug of peptide starting material. The new workflow performed equally as well as the routinely conducted manual workflow with similar technical variability in MS/MS-based identifications of peptides and proteins. A first application of the system to a biological question contributed to highly reliable results, where time-resolved proteomic data was separated by principal component analysis (PCA) and hierarchical clustering. CONCLUSIONS: The new workstation was successfully established for proteolytic peptide purification in our proteomic workflow without any drawbacks. Highly reproducible results were obtained in decreased time per sample, which will facilitate further large-scale proteomic investigations.
PXD014197	32583550	Functional surface proteomic profiling reveals the host heat-shock protein A8 as a mediator of Lichtheimia corymbifera recognition by murine alveolar macrophages. 	The heat shock protein family A (HSPA8) acts as a surface receptor of alveolar macrophages specific for recognition and phagocytosis of Lichtheimia corymbifera spores	HSPA8, Lichtheimia corymbifera, alveolar macrophages, biotinylation, surface receptor	Mucormycosis is an emergent, fatal fungal infection of humans and warm-blooded animals caused by species of the order Mucorales. Immune cells of the innate immune system serve as the first line of defence against inhaled spores. Alveolar macrophages were challenged with the mucoralean fungus Lichtheimia corymbifera and subjected to biotinylation and streptavidin enrichment procedures followed by LC-MS/MS analyses. A total of 28 host proteins enriched for binding to macrophage-L. corymbifera interaction. Among those, the HSP70-family protein Hspa8 was found to be predominantly responsive to living and heat-killed spores of a virulent and an attenuated strain of L. corymbifera. Confocal scanning laser microscopy of infected macrophages revealed colocalization of Hspa8 with phagocytosed spores of L. corymbifera. The amount of detectable Hspa8 was dependent on the multiplicity of infection. Incubation of alveolar macrophages with an anti-Hspa8 antibody prior to infection reduced their capability to phagocytose spores of L. corymbifera. In contrast, anti-Hspa8 antibodies did not abrogate the phagocytosis of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia by macrophages. These results suggest an important contribution of the heat-shock family protein Hspa8 in the recognition of spores of the mucoralean fungus L. corymbifera by host alveolar macrophages and define a potential immunomodulatory therapeutic target.
PXD017233	32584816	Control of mRNA translation by dynamic ribosome modification. 	Second messenger control of mRNA translation by dynamic ribosome modification	Pseudomonas, cyclic-di-GMP, iTRAQ proteome, ribosomal proteins, signalling	Control of mRNA translation is a crucial regulatory mechanism used by bacteria to respond to their environment. In the soil bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens, RimK modifies the C-terminus of ribosomal protein RpsF to influence important aspects of rhizosphere colonisation through proteome remodelling. In this study, we show that RimK activity is itself under complex, multifactorial control by the co-transcribed phosphodiesterase trigger enzyme (RimA) and a polyglutamate-specific protease (RimB). Furthermore, biochemical experimentation and mathematical modelling reveal a role for the nucleotide second messenger cyclic-di-GMP in coordinating these activities. Active ribosome regulation by RimK occurs by two main routes: indirectly, through changes in the abundance of the global translational regulator Hfq and directly, with translation of surface attachment factors, amino acid transporters and key secreted molecules linked specifically to RpsF modification. Our findings show that post-translational ribosomal modification functions as a rapid-response mechanism that tunes global gene translation in response to environmental signals.
PXD014773	32586320	Alterations in the chondrocyte surfaceome in response to pro-inflammatory cytokines. 	Charaterising the surfaceome of primary equine chondrocytes	Horse, chondrocyte, equine	BACKGROUND: Chondrocytes are exposed to an inflammatory micro-environment in the extracellular matrix (ECM) of articular cartilage in joint diseases such as osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In OA, degenerative changes and low-grade inflammation within the joint transform the behaviour and metabolism of chondrocytes, disturb the balance between ECM synthesis and degradation, and alter the osmolality and ionic composition of the micro-environment. We hypothesize that chondrocytes adjust their physiology to the inflammatory microenvironment by modulating the expression of cell surface proteins, collectively referred to as the 'surfaceome'. Therefore, the aim of this study was to characterize the surfaceome of primary equine chondrocytes isolated from healthy joints following exposure to the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1-beta (IL-1beta) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). We employed combined methodology that we recently developed for investigating the surfaceome in stem cells. Membrane proteins were isolated using an aminooxy-biotinylation technique and analysed by mass spectrometry using high throughput shotgun proteomics. Selected proteins were validated by western blotting. RESULTS: Amongst the 431 unique cell surface proteins identified, a high percentage of low-abundance proteins, such as ion channels, receptors and transporter molecules were detected. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014773. A high number of proteins exhibited different expression patterns following chondrocyte stimulation with pro-inflammatory cytokines. Low density lipoprotein related protein 1 (LPR-1), thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1), voltage dependent anion channel (VDAC) 1-2 and annexin A1 were considered to be of special interest and were analysed further by western blotting. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide, for the first time, a repository for proteomic data on differentially expressed low-abundance membrane proteins on the surface of chondrocytes in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli.
PXD018743	32587089	Ubiquitination of interleukin-1alpha is associated with increased pro-inflammatory polarization of murine macrophages deficient in the E3 ligase ITCH. 	Ubiquitination profile of polarized macrophages	Inflammation, Macrophage polarization, Ubiquitination	Macrophages play critical roles in homeostasis and inflammation. Macrophage polarization to either a pro-inflammatory or anti-inflammatory status is controlled by activating inflammatory signaling pathways. Ubiquitination is a posttranslational modification that regulates these inflammatory signaling pathways. However, the influence of protein ubiquitination on macrophage polarization has not been well studied. We hypothesized that the ubiquitination status of key proteins in inflammatory pathways contributes to macrophage polarization, which is regulated by itchy E3 ubiquitin ligase (ITCH), a negative regulator of inflammation. Using ubiquitin proteomics, we found that ubiquitination profiles are different among polarized murine macrophage subsets. Interestingly, interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha), an important pro-inflammatory mediator, was specifically ubiquitinated in lipopolysaccharide-induced pro-inflammatory macrophages, which was enhanced in ITCH-deficient macrophages. The ITCH-deficient macrophages had increased levels of the mature form of IL-1alpha and exhibited pro-inflammatory polarization, and reduced deubiquitination of IL-1alpha protein. Finally, IL-1alpha neutralization attenuated pro-inflammatory polarization of the ITCH-deficient macrophages. In conclusion, ubiquitination of IL-1alpha is associated with increased pro-inflammatory polarization of macrophages deficient in the E3 ligase ITCH.
PXD018270	32587248	Chemical genetics strategy to profile kinase target engagement reveals role of FES in neutrophil phagocytosis. 	Chemical genetics strategy to profile kinase target engagement reveals role of FES in neutrophil phagocytosis via SYK activation	Target engagement, chemical biology, chemical genetics, inhibitor, kinase, probe, target validation	Chemical tools to monitor drug-target engagement of endogenously expressed protein kinases are highly desirable for preclinical target validation in drug discovery. Here, we describe a chemical genetics strategy to selectively study target engagement of endogenous kinases. By substituting a serine residue into cysteine at the DFG-1 position in the ATP-binding pocket, we sensitize the non-receptor tyrosine kinase FES towards covalent labeling by a complementary fluorescent chemical probe. This mutation is introduced in the endogenous FES gene of HL-60 cells using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. Leveraging the temporal and acute control offered by our strategy, we show that FES activity is dispensable for differentiation of HL-60 cells towards macrophages. Instead, FES plays a key role in neutrophil phagocytosis via SYK kinase activation. This chemical genetics strategy holds promise as a target validation method for kinases.
PXD017002	32587254	MiR-200b in heme oxygenase-1-modified bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes alleviates inflammatory injury of intestinal epithelial cells by targeting high mobility group box 3. 	HO-1/BMMSCs exosomes treating inflammatory injured IEC-6 cells LC-MSMS	HO-1BMMSCsLC-MSMS, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), ratIEC-6s	Heme Oxygen-1 (HO-1)-modified bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) are effective to protect and repair transplanted small bowel and intestinal epithelial cells (IECs); however, the mechanism and the role of HO-1/BMMSCs-derived exosomes is unclear. In the present study, we aimed to verify that exosomes from a HO-1/BMMSCs and IEC-6 cells (IEC-6s) co-culture system could reduce the apoptosis of IEC-6s and decrease the expression of the tight junction protein, zona occludens 1, in the inflammatory environment. Using mass spectrometry, we revealed that high mobility group box 3 (HMGB3) and phosphorylated c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK), under the influence of differentially abundant proteins identified through proteomic analysis, play critical roles in the mechanism. Further studies indicated that microRNA miR-200b, which was upregulated in exosomes derived from the co-culture of HO-1/BMMSCs and IEC-6s, exerted its role by targeting the 3' untranslated region of Hmgb3 in this biological process. Functional experiments confirmed that miR-200b overexpression could reduce the inflammatory injury of IEC-6s, while intracellular miR-200b knockdown could significantly block the protective effect of HO-1/BMMSCs exosomes on the inflammatory injury of IEC-6s. In addition, the level of miR-200b in cells and exosomes derived from HO-1/BMMSCs stimulated by tumor necrosis factor alpha was significantly upregulated. In a rat small bowel transplantation model of allograft rejection treated with HO-1/BMMSCs, we confirmed that the level of miR-200b in the transplanted small bowel tissue was increased significantly, while the level of HMGB3/JNK was downregulated significantly. In conclusion, we identified that exosomes derived from HO-1/BMMSCs play an important role in alleviating the inflammatory injury of IECs. The mechanism is related to miR-200b targeting the abnormally increased expression of the Hmgb3 gene in IECs induced by inflammatory injury. The reduced level of HMGB3 then decreases the inflammatory injury.
PXD019103	32587829	Maspin as a Prognostic Marker for Early Stage Colorectal Cancer With Microsatellite Instability. 	Colorectal cancer proteome project for biomarke search and development of clinical test	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, LC-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cancer, humna	Colorectal cancers are among the most common cancers and a leading cause of cancer death. In our pursuit to discover molecular markers for better characterization and precision theranostics of these cancers, we first conducted global deep proteome analyses and identified maspin (serpin B5, peptidase inhibitor 5) as an upregulated protein in tumor tissue. We then validated its expression in a large cohort of 743 patients with colorectal cancers of all stages and found that both cytoplasmic and nuclear expression varied widely between different patients. Comparison with clinicopathological features revealed that maspin expression levels correlate significantly only with mismatch repair (MMR) status but not with other features. To elucidate the prognostic significance of maspin, we analyzed two outcome-annotated cohorts, one of 572 early stage cancer patients and another of 93 late stage cancer patients. Kaplan-Meier survival, univariate, and multivariate analyses revealed that maspin overexpression predicts longer overall and disease-free survival for early stage microsatellite instability (MSI) subtype colorectal cancer, but there is no correlation with survival for patients with early stage cancer of the microsatellite stability (MSS) subtype or late stage cancer. Our study identifies maspin expression as an independent prognostic marker for risk stratification of early stage MSI subtype colorectal cancer and may provide guidance for improved therapeutic management.
PXD014313	32589689	System-wide biochemical analysis reveals ozonide antimalarials initially act by disrupting Plasmodium falciparum haemoglobin digestion. 	System-wide biochemical analysis reveals ozonide and artemisinin antimalarials initially act by disrupting malaria parasite haemoglobin digestion	Malaria, Metabolomics, Peptidomics, Peroxide antimalarial, Plasmodium falciparum	Ozonide antimalarials, OZ277 (arterolane) and OZ439 (artefenomel), are synthetic peroxide-based antimalarials with potent activity against the deadliest malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. Here we used a "multi-omics" workflow, in combination with activity-based protein profiling (ABPP), to demonstrate that peroxide antimalarials initially target the haemoglobin (Hb) digestion pathway to kill malaria parasites. Time-dependent metabolomic profiling of ozonide-treated P. falciparum infected red blood cells revealed a rapid depletion of short Hb-derived peptides followed by subsequent alterations in lipid and nucleotide metabolism, while untargeted peptidomics showed accumulation of longer Hb-derived peptides. Quantitative proteomics and ABPP assays demonstrated that Hb-digesting proteases were increased in abundance and activity following treatment, respectively. Ozonide-induced depletion of short Hb-derived peptides was less extensive in a drug-treated K13-mutant artemisinin resistant parasite line (Cam3.IIR539T) than in the drug-treated isogenic sensitive strain (Cam3.IIrev), further confirming the association between ozonide activity and Hb catabolism. To demonstrate that compromised Hb catabolism may be a primary mechanism involved in ozonide antimalarial activity, we showed that parasites forced to rely solely on Hb digestion for amino acids became hypersensitive to short ozonide exposures. Quantitative proteomics analysis also revealed parasite proteins involved in translation and the ubiquitin-proteasome system were enriched following drug treatment, suggestive of the parasite engaging a stress response to mitigate ozonide-induced damage. Taken together, these data point to a mechanism of action involving initial impairment of Hb catabolism, and indicate that the parasite regulates protein turnover to manage ozonide-induced damage.
PXD012524	32589876	Human iPSC-Derived Hippocampal Spheroids: An Innovative Tool for Stratifying Alzheimer Disease Patient-Specific Cellular Phenotypes and Developing Therapies. 	Human hippocampal spheroids for modelling AD	AD, hippocampus, iPSC	The hippocampus is important for memory formation and is severely affected in the brain with Alzheimer disease (AD). Our understanding of early pathogenic processes occurring in hippocampi in AD is limited due to tissue unavailability. Here, we report a chemical approach to rapidly generate free-floating hippocampal spheroids (HSs), from human induced pluripotent stem cells. When used to model AD, both APP and atypical PS1 variant HSs displayed increased Abeta42/Abeta40 peptide ratios and decreased synaptic protein levels, which are common features of AD. However, the two variants differed in tau hyperphosphorylation, protein aggregation, and protein network alterations. NeuroD1-mediated gene therapy in HSs-derived progenitors resulted in modulation of expression of numerous genes, including those involved in synaptic transmission. Thus, HSs can be harnessed to unravel the mechanisms underlying early pathogenic changes in the hippocampi of AD patients, and provide a robust platform for the development of therapeutic strategies targeting early stage AD.
PXD017998	32591337	The lipid transfer properties of CETP define the concentration and composition of plasma lipoproteins. 	Changes in golden Syrian hamster HDL proteome caused by altered cholesteryl ester transfer protein expression	cholesteryl ester transfer protein, hamster, high density lipoprotein, plasma	Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) facilitates the net transfer of cholesteryl esters (CEs) and TGs between lipoproteins, impacting the metabolic fate of these lipoproteins. Previous studies have shown that a CETP antibody can alter CETP's preference for CE versus TG as transfer substrate, suggesting that CETP substrate preference can be manipulated in vivo. Hamster and human CETPs have very different preferences for CE and TG. To assess the effect of altering CETP's substrate preference on lipoproteins in vivo, here, we expressed human CETP in hamsters. Chow-fed hamsters received adenoviruses expressing no CETP, hamster CETP, or human CETP. Plasma CETP mass increased 2-fold in both the hamster and human CETP groups. Although the animals expressing human CETP still had low levels of hamster CETP, the CE versus TG preference of their plasma CETP was similar to that of the human ortholog. Hamster CETP overexpression had little impact on lipoproteins. However, expression of human CETP reduced HDL up to 50% and increased VLDL cholesterol 2.5-fold. LDL contained 20% more CE, whereas HDL CE was reduced 40%, and TG increased 6-fold. The HDL3:HDL2 ratio increased from 0.32 to 0.60. Hepatic expression of three cholesterol-related genes (LDLR, SCARB1, and CYP7A1) was reduced up to 40%. However, HDL-associated CE excretion into feces was unchanged. We conclude that expression of human CETP in hamsters humanizes their lipoprotein profile with respect to the relative concentrations of VLDL, LDL, HDL, and the HDL3:HDL2 ratio. Altering the lipid substrate preference of CETP provides a novel approach for modifying plasma lipoproteins.
PXD019645	32591346	Data, Reagents, Assays and Merits of Proteomics for SARS-CoV-2 Research and Testing. 	Data, reagents, assays and merits of proteomics for SARS-CoV-2 research and testing	ACE2, COVID-19, Covid-19, EPIC-XS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, Vero E6, clinical proteomics, infectome, parallel reaction monitoring, stable isotope labeling	As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to spread, thousands of scientists around the globe have changed research direction to understand better how the virus works and to find out how it may be tackled. The number of manuscripts on preprint servers is soaring and peer-reviewed publications using MS-based proteomics are beginning to emerge. To facilitate proteomic research on SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, this report presents deep-scale proteomes (10,000 proteins; >130,000 peptides) of common cell line models, notably Vero E6, Calu-3, Caco-2, and ACE2-A549 that characterize their protein expression profiles including viral entry factors such as ACE2 or TMPRSS2. Using the 9 kDa protein SRP9 and the breast cancer oncogene BRCA1 as examples, we show how the proteome expression data can be used to refine the annotation of protein-coding regions of the African green monkey and the Vero cell line genomes. Monitoring changes of the proteome on viral infection revealed widespread expression changes including transcriptional regulators, protease inhibitors, and proteins involved in innate immunity. Based on a library of 98 stable-isotope labeled synthetic peptides representing 11 SARS-CoV-2 proteins, we developed PRM (parallel reaction monitoring) assays for nano-flow and micro-flow LC-MS/MS. We assessed the merits of these PRM assays using supernatants of virus-infected Vero E6 cells and challenged the assays by analyzing two diagnostic cohorts of 24 (+30) SARS-CoV-2 positive and 28 (+9) negative cases. In light of the results obtained and including recent publications or manuscripts on preprint servers, we critically discuss the merits of MS-based proteomics for SARS-CoV-2 research and testing.
PXD018272	32591520	Fishing for newly synthesized proteins with phosphonate-handles. 	Fishing for newly synthesized proteins with phosphonate-handles	LC-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, affinity enrichment, bioorthogonal, click chemistry	Bioorthogonal chemistry introduces affinity-labels into biomolecules with minimal disruption to the original system and is widely applicable in a range of contexts. In proteomics, immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) enables enrichment of phosphopeptides with extreme sensitivity and selectivity. Here, we adapt and combine these superb assets in a new enrichment strategy using phosphonate-handles, which we term PhosID. In this approach, click-able phosphonate-handles are introduced into proteins via 1,3-dipolar Huisgen-cycloaddition to azido-homo-alanine (AHA) and IMAC is then used to enrich exclusively for phosphonate-labeled peptides. In interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) stimulated cells, PhosID enabled the identification of a large number of IFN responsive newly synthesized proteins (NSPs) whereby we monitored the differential synthesis of these proteins over time. Collectively, these data validate the excellent performance of PhosID with efficient analysis and quantification of hundreds of NSPs by single LC-MS/MS runs. We envision PhosID as an attractive and alternative tool for studying stimuli-sensitive proteome subsets.
PXD016929	32595696	Concurrent EPA and DHA Supplementation Impairs Brown Adipogenesis of C2C12 Cells. 	Concurrent EPA and DHA Supplementation Impairs Brown Adipogenesis of C2C12 Cells	C2C12 cells, Metabolism, Mitochondrial function, brown adipogenesis, n-3 PUFAs	Maternal dietary supplementation of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs), especially eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), is considered to play positive roles in fetal neuro system development. However, maternal n-3 PUFAs may induce molecular reprogramming of uncommitted fetal myoblasts into adipocyte phenotype, in turn affecting lipid metabolism and energy expenditure of the offspring. The objective of this in vitro study was to investigate the combined effects of EPA and DHA on C2C12 cells undergoing brown adipogenic differentiation. C2C12 myoblasts were cultured to confluency and then treated with brown adipogenic differentiation medium with and without 50 muM EPA and 50 muM DHA. After differentiation, mRNA and protein samples were collected. Gene expression and protein levels were analyzed by real-time PCR and western blot. General Proteomics analysis was conducted using mass spectrometric evaluation. The effect of EPA and DHA on cellular oxygen consumption was measured using a Seahorse XFP Analyzer. Cells treated with n-3 PUFAs had significantly less (P < 0.05) expression of the brown adipocyte marker genes PGC1alpha, DIO2, and UCP3. Expression of mitochondrial biogenesis-related genes TFAM, PGC1alpha, and PGC1beta were significantly downregulated (P < 0.05) by n-3 PUFAs treatment. Expression of mitochondrial electron transportation chain (ETC)-regulated genes were significantly inhibited (P < 0.05) by n-3 PUFAs, including ATP5J2, COX7a1, and COX8b. Mass spectrometric and western blot evaluation showed protein levels of enzymes which regulate the ETC and Krebs cycle, including ATP synthase alpha and beta (F1F0 complex), citrate synthase, succinate CO-A ligase, succinate dehydrogenase (complex II), ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex subunits (complex III), aconitate hydratase, cytochrome c, and pyruvate carboxylase were all decreased in the n-3 PUFAs group (P < 0.05). Genomic and proteomic changes were accompanied by mitochondrial dysfunction, represented by significantly reduced oxygen consumption rate, ATP production, and proton leak (P < 0.05). This study suggested that EPA and DHA may alter the BAT fate of myoblasts by inhibiting mitochondrial biogenesis and activity and induce white-like adipogenesis, shifting the metabolism from lipid oxidation to synthesis.
PXD015880	32596240	Exploring the Impact of PARK2 Mutations on the Total and Mitochondrial Proteome of Human Skin Fibroblasts. 	Exploring the impact of PARK2 mutations on the total and mitochondrial proteome of human skin         fibroblasts	Human Proteome Project, Mitochondria (HPP), PARK2 mutation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), human skin fibroblast, immunoprecipit, mitochondria, shotgun proteomics	Mutations in PARK2 gene are the most frequent cause of familial forms of Parkinson's disease (PD). This gene encodes Parkin, an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in several cellular mechanisms, including mitophagy. Parkin loss-of-function is responsible for the cellular accumulation of damaged mitochondria, which in turn determines an increment of reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, lower ATP production, and apoptosis activation. Given the importance of mitochondrial dysfunction and mitophagy impairment in PD pathogenesis, the aim of the present study was to investigate both total and mitochondrial proteome alterations in human skin fibroblasts of PARK2-mutated patients. To this end, both total and mitochondria-enriched protein fractions from fibroblasts of five PARK2-mutated patients and five control subjects were analyzed by quantitative shotgun proteomics to identify proteins specifically altered by Parkin mutations (mass spectrometry proteomics data have been submitted to ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD015880). Both the network-based and gene set enrichment analyses pointed out pathways in which Rab GTPase proteins are involved. To have a more comprehensive view of the mitochondrial alterations due to PARK2 mutations, we investigated the impact of Parkin loss on mitochondrial function and network morphology. We unveiled that the mitochondrial membrane potential was reduced in PARK2-mutated patients, without inducing PINK1 accumulation, even when triggered with the ionophore carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP). Lastly, the analysis of the mitochondrial network morphology did not reveal any significant alterations in PARK2-mutated patients compared to control subjects. Thus, our results suggested that the network morphology was not influenced by the mitochondrial depolarization and by the lack of Parkin, revealing a possible impairment of fission and, more in general, of mitochondrial dynamics. In conclusion, the present work highlighted new molecular factors and pathways altered by PARK2 mutations, which will unravel possible biochemical pathways altered in the sporadic form of PD.
PXD018692	32596263	Changes in the Salivary Proteome Associated With Canine Pyometra. 	Salivary proteome in canine pyometra	TMT, canine pyometra, dog, saliva	The present study evaluated for the first time changes in the saliva proteome in bitches with pyometra through a high-throughput quantitative proteomic analysis. The aims were to explore whether saliva composition could reflect the physiopathological changes occurring in canine pyometra and to identify potential biomarkers of the disease. Saliva samples from six healthy (H) and six bitches with pyometra (P) were analyzed using tandem mass tags-based approach. Additionally, 15 samples were used for the validation of changes in haptoglobin (Hp) concentration in saliva of dogs with pyometra. Proteomic analysis quantified 707 proteins in saliva. Comparison of the two groups revealed 16 unique proteins significantly modulated in saliva, with S100A calcium-binding protein 12 (S100A12), vimentin, and Hp the most up-regulated in canine pyometra. According to PANTHER (Protein Analysis Through Evolutionary Relationships) classification tool, these proteins are mainly related to proinflammatory mediators, acute-phase proteins, and sepsis. In conclusion, it can be stated that there are changes in various proteins in saliva in canine pyometra reflecting different physiopathological changes occurring in this disease. These proteins could be a source of potential non-invasive biomarkers for this disease that should be confirmed in future studies.
PXD017061	32596986	Robust expression of p27Kip1 induced by viral infection is critical for antiviral innate immunity. 	Analysis of protein expression in the lung of mice infected with influenza virus(WSN)	iTRAQ, influenza virus, innate immunity, lung	Influenza A virus (IAV) infection regulates the expression of numerous host genes. However, the precise mechanism underlying implication of these genes in IAV pathogenesis remains largely unknown. Here, we employed isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) to identify host proteins regulated by IAV infection. iTRAQ analysis of mouse lungs infected or uninfected with IAV showed a total of 167 differentially upregulated proteins in response to the viral infection. Interestingly, we observed that p27Kip1, a potent cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, was markedly induced by IAV both at mRNA and protein levels through in vitro and in vivo studies. Furthermore, it was shown that innate immune signalling positively regulated p27Kip1 expression in response to IAV infection. Ectopic expression of p27Kip1 in A549 cells dramatically inhibited IAV replication, whereas, p27Kip1 knockdown significantly enhanced the virus replication. in vivo experiments demonstrated that p27Kip1 knockout (KO) mice were more susceptible to IAV than wild-type (WT) mice: exhibiting higher viral load in lung tissue, faster body-weight loss, reduced survival rate and more severe organ damage. Moreover, we found that p27Kip1 overexpression facilitated the degradation of viral NS1 protein, caused a dramatic STAT1 activation and promoted the expression of IFN-beta and several critical antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). Increased p27Kip1 expression also restricted infections of several other viruses. Conversely, IAV-infected p27Kip1 KO mice exhibited a sharp increase in NS1 protein accumulation, reduced level of STAT1 activation and decreased expression of IFN-beta and the ISGs in the lung compared to WT animals. These findings reveal a key role of p27Kip1 in enhancing antiviral innate immunity.
PXD018761	32597009	EIF2alpha phosphorylation is regulated in intracellular amastigotes for the generation of infective Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigote forms. 	Proteome changes upon modulation of eIF2alpha phosphorylation in  Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes	Trypanosoma cruzi, differentiation, eIF2, phosphorylation, translation, virulence	Trypanosomatids regulate gene expression mainly at the post-transcriptional level through processing, exporting and stabilising mRNA and control of translation. In most eukaryotes, protein synthesis is regulated by phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (eIF2) at serine 51. Phosphorylation halts overall translation by decreasing availability of initiator tRNA(met) to form translating ribosomes. In trypanosomatids, the N-terminus of eIF2alpha is extended with threonine 169 the homologous phosphorylated residue. Here, we evaluated whether eIF2alpha phosphorylation varies during the Trypanosoma cruzi life cycle, the etiological agent of Chagas' disease. Total levels of eIF2alpha are diminished in infective and non-replicative trypomastigotes compared with proliferative forms from the intestine of the insect vector or amastigotes from mammalian cells, consistent with decreased protein synthesis reported in infective forms. eIF2alpha phosphorylation increases in proliferative intracellular forms prior to differentiation into trypomastigotes. Parasites overexpressing eIF2alpha(T169A) or with an endogenous CRISPR/Cas9-generated eIF2alpha(T169A) mutation were created and analysis revealed alterations to the proteome, largely unrelated to the presence of muORF in epimastigotes. eIF2alpha(T169A) mutant parasites produced fewer trypomastigotes with lower infectivity than wild type, with increased levels of sialylated mucins and oligomannose glycoproteins, and decreased galactofuranose epitopes and the surface protease GP63 on the cell surface. We conclude that eIF2alpha expression and phosphorylation levels affect proteins relevant for intracellular progression of T. cruzi.
PXD015068	32597192	Moving Pieces in a Cellular Puzzle: A Cryptic Peptide from the Scorpion Toxin Ts14 Activates AKT and ERK Signaling and Decreases Cardiac Myocyte Contractility via Dephosphorylation of Phospholamban. 	Phosphoproteomics of mouse cardiomyocytes reveals signalling pathways triggered by a vasodilator cryptide	Cardiomyocytes, Cryptide, Hipotensins, Phosphopreteomics, Scorpion, Venome	Cryptic peptides (cryptides) are biologically active peptides formed after proteolysis of native precursors present in animal venoms, for example. Proteolysis is an overlooked post-translational modification that increases venom complexity. The tripeptide KPP (Lys-Pro-Pro) is a peptide encrypted in the C-terminus of Ts14-a 25-mer peptide from the venom of the Tityus serrulatus scorpion that has a positive impact on the cardiovascular system, inducing vasodilation and reducing arterial blood pressure of hypertensive rats among other beneficial effects. A previous study reported that KPP and its native peptide Ts14 act via activation of the bradykinin receptor B2 (B2R). However, the cellular events underlying the activation of B2R by KPP are unknown. To study the cell signaling triggered by the Ts14 cryptide KPP, we incubated cardiac myocytes isolated from C57BL/6 mice with KPP (10(-7) mol.L(-1)) for 0, 5, or 30 min and explored the proteome and phosphoproteome. Our results showed that KPP regulated cardiomyocyte proteins associated with, but not limited to, apoptosis, muscle contraction, protein turnover, and the respiratory chain. We also reported that KPP led to AKT phosphorylation, activating AKT and its downstream target nitric oxide synthase. We also observed that KPP led to dephosphorylation of phospholamban (PLN) at its activation sites (S16 and T17), leading to reduced contractility of treated cardiomyocytes. Some cellular targets reported here for KPP (e.g., AKT, PLN, and ERK) have already been reported to protect the cardiac tissue from hypoxia-induced injury. Hence, this study suggests potential beneficial effects of this scorpion cryptide that needs to be further investigated, for example, as a drug lead for cardiac infarction.
PXD018810	32597628	Identifying the Target of an Antiparasitic Compound in Toxoplasma Using Thermal Proteome Profiling. 	Thermal proteome profiling of Toxoplasma gondii lysates treated with enhancer 1 (ENH1)	CETSA, Toxoplasma gondii, thermal proteome profiling	Apicomplexan parasites include the causative agents of malaria and toxoplasmosis. Cell-based screens in Toxoplasma previously identified a chemical modulator of calcium signaling (ENH1) that blocked parasite egress from host cells and exhibited potent antiparasitic activity. To identify the targets of ENH1, we adapted thermal proteome profiling to Toxoplasma, which revealed calcium-dependent protein kinase 1 (CDPK1) as a target. We confirmed the inhibition of CDPK1 by ENH1 in vitro and in parasites by comparing alleles sensitive or resistant to ENH1. CDPK1 inhibition explained the block in egress; however, the effects of ENH1 on calcium homeostasis and parasite viability were CDPK1-independent, implicating additional targets. Thermal proteome profiling of lysates from parasites expressing the resistant allele of CDPK1 identified additional candidates associated with the mitochondria and the parasite pellicle-compartments that potentially function in calcium release and homeostasis. Our findings illustrate the promise of thermal profiling to identify druggable targets that modulate calcium signaling in apicomplexan parasites.
PXD017396	32597660	Phosphoproteome Response to Dithiothreitol Reveals Unique Versus Shared Features of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Stress Responses. 	The phosphoproteome response to dithiolthreitol in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	DTT, Protein Kinase A, phosphoproteomic, salt stress, stress	To cope with sudden changes in the external environment, the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae orchestrates a multifaceted response that spans many levels of physiology. Several studies have interrogated the transcriptome response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the role of regulators such as the Ire1 kinase and Hac1 transcription factors. However, less is known about responses to ER stress at other levels of physiology. Here, we used quantitative phosphoproteomics and computational network inference to uncover the yeast phosphoproteome response to the reducing agent dithiothreitol (DTT) and the upstream signaling network that controls it. We profiled wild-type cells and mutants lacking IRE1 or MAPK kinases MKK1 and MKK2, before and at various times after DTT treatment. In addition to revealing downstream targets of these kinases, our inference approach predicted new regulators in the DTT response, including cell-cycle regulator Cdc28 and osmotic-response kinase Rck2, which we validated computationally. Our results also revealed similarities and surprising differences in responses to different stress conditions, especially in the response of protein kinase A targets. These results have implications for the breadth of signaling programs that can give rise to common stress response signatures.
PXD013270	32597661	Identification of Novel Adipokines through Proteomic Profiling of Small Extracellular Vesicles Derived from Adipose Tissue. 	Proteomic Analysis of adipose tissue derived Exosome-like vesicles	adipokines, adipose tissue, exosome-like vesicles, obesity	Adipose tissue is regarded as a true endocrine organ that releases adipokines to regulate distant targets. Besides the well-studied secretory adipokines, the adipokines carried by small extracellular vesicles derived from adipose tissue (sEV-AT) have not been completely characterized yet. In this study, we conducted a complementary protein profiling on sEV-AT with label-free quantitative proteomic analysis (project accession: PXD013270). A total of 2607 sEV-AT proteins were identified, among which 328 proteins had been annotated as adipokines. Three undefined adipokine candidates (NPM3, STEAP3, and DAD1) were selected for further validation. These three proteins were expressed in both white and brown adipose tissues and upregulated during adipogenic differentiation in both 3T3-L1 cells and adipose-derived stromal/stem cells (ASCs). Expressions of NPM3 and DAD1 in sEV-AT were significantly decreased in obese subjects compared with lean controls, while obesity could not alter the expression of STEAP3. Our profiling study of the sEV-AT proteins expanded the list of adipokines and highlighted the pivotal role of adipokines specifically carried by sEVs in the regulation of multiple biological processes within adipose tissue.
PXD018673	32598367	N-glycomic profiling of colorectal cancer according to tumor stage and location. 	N-glycomic profiling of colorectal cancer according to tumor stage and location	N-glycan cancer MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry	Alterations in glycosylation are seen in many types of cancer, including colorectal cancer (CRC). Glycans, the sugar moieties of glycoconjugates, are involved in many important functions relevant to cancer and can be of value as biomarkers. In this study, we have used mass spectrometry to analyze the N-glycan profiles of 35 CRC tissue samples and 10 healthy tissue samples from non-CRC patients who underwent operations for other reasons. The tumor samples were divided into groups depending on tumor location (right or left colon) and stage (II or III), while the healthy samples were divided into right or left colon. The levels of neutral and acidic N-glycan compositions and glycan classes were analyzed in a total of ten different groups. Surprisingly, there were no significant differences in glycan levels when all right- and left-sided CRC samples were compared, and few differences (such as in the abundance of the neutral N-glycan H3N5) were seen when the samples were divided according to both location and stage. Multiple significant differences were found in the levels of glycans and glycan classes when stage II and III samples were compared, and these glycans could be of value as candidates for new markers of cancer progression. In order to validate our findings, we analyzed healthy tissue samples from the right and left colon and found no significant differences in the levels of any of the glycans analyzed, confirming that our findings when comparing CRC samples from the right and left colon are not due to normal variations in the levels of glycans between the healthy right and left colon. Additionally, the levels of the acidic glycans H4N3F1P1, H5N4F1P1, and S1H5N4F1 were found to change in a cancer-specific but colon location-nonspecific manner, indicating that CRC affects glycan levels in similar ways regardless of tumor location.
PXD018920	32601173	Measuring Site-specific Glycosylation Similarity between Influenza a Virus Variants with Statistical Certainty. 	Influenza A hemagglutinin glycoproteomics similarity	LC-MS, glycopeptides, glycosylation, influenza A, similarity	Influenza A virus (IAV) mutates rapidly, resulting in antigenic drift and poor year-to-year vaccine effectiveness. One challenge in designing effective vaccines is that genetic mutations frequently cause amino acid variations in IAV envelope protein hemagglutinin (HA) that create new N-glycosylation sequons; resulting N-glycans cause antigenic shielding, allowing viral escape from adaptive immune responses. Vaccine candidate strain selection currently involves correlating antigenicity with HA protein sequence among circulating strains, but quantitative comparison of site-specific glycosylation information may likely improve the ability to design vaccines with broader effectiveness against evolving strains. However, there is poor understanding of the influence of glycosylation on immunodominance, antigenicity, and immunogenicity of HA, and there are no well-tested methods for comparing glycosylation similarity among virus samples. Here, we present a method for statistically rigorous quantification of similarity between two related virus strains that considers the presence and abundance of glycopeptide glycoforms. We demonstrate the strength of our approach by determining that there was a quantifiable difference in glycosylation at the protein level between WT IAV HA from A/Switzerland/9715293/2013 (SWZ13) and a mutant strain of SWZ13, even though no N-glycosylation sequons were changed. We determined site-specifically that WT and mutant HA have varying similarity at the glycosylation sites of the head domain, reflecting competing pressures to evade host immune response while retaining viral fitness. To our knowledge, our results are the first to quantify changes in glycosylation state that occur in related proteins of considerable glycan heterogeneity. Our results provide a method for understanding how changes in glycosylation state are correlated with variations in protein sequence, which is necessary for improving IAV vaccine strain selection. Understanding glycosylation will be especially important as we find new expression vectors for vaccine production, as glycosylation state depends greatly on the host species.
PXD019814	32601174	Accurate MS-based Rab10 Phosphorylation Stoichiometry Determination as Readout for LRRK2 Activity in Parkinson's Disease. 	Accurate MS-based Rab10 phosphorylation stoichiometry determination as readout for LRRK2 activity in Parkinson's disease	Parkinson's disease, phosphorylation stoichiometry, targeted mass spectrometry	Pathogenic mutations in the Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the predominant genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). They increase its activity, resulting in augmented Rab10-Thr73 phosphorylation and conversely, LRRK2 inhibition decreases pRab10 levels. Currently, there is no assay to quantify pRab10 levels for drug target engagement or patient stratification. To meet this challenge, we developed an high accuracy and sensitivity targeted mass spectrometry (MS)-based assay for determining Rab10-Thr73 phosphorylation stoichiometry in human samples. It uses synthetic stable isotope-labeled (SIL) analogues for both phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated tryptic peptides surrounding Rab10-Thr73 to directly derive the percentage of Rab10 phosphorylation from attomole amounts of the endogenous phosphopeptide. The SIL and the endogenous phosphopeptides are separately admitted into an Orbitrap analyzer with the appropriate injection times. We test the reproducibility of our assay by determining Rab10-Thr73 phosphorylation stoichiometry in neutrophils of LRRK2 mutation carriers before and after LRRK2 inhibition. Compared with healthy controls, the PD predisposing mutation carriers LRRK2 G2019S and VPS35 D620N display 1.9-fold and 3.7-fold increased pRab10 levels, respectively. Our generic MS-based assay further establishes the relevance of pRab10 as a prognostic PD marker and is a powerful tool for determining LRRK2 inhibitor efficacy and for stratifying PD patients for LRRK2 inhibitor treatment.
PXD015920	32601292	Proximity labeling proteomics reveals critical regulators for inner nuclear membrane protein degradation in plants. 	The inner nuclear membrane-associated degradation system in plants	CDC48A/B/C, INMAD, PUX3/4/5, UFD1B/1C	The inner nuclear membrane (INM) selectively accumulates proteins that are essential for nuclear functions; however, overaccumulation of INM proteins results in a range of rare genetic disorders. So far, little is known about how defective, mislocalized, or abnormally accumulated membrane proteins are actively removed from the INM, especially in plants and animals. Here, via analysis of a proximity-labeling proteomic profile of INM-associated proteins in Arabidopsis, we identify critical components for an INM protein degradation pathway. We show that this pathway relies on the CDC48 complex for INM protein extraction and 26S proteasome for subsequent protein degradation. Moreover, we show that CDC48 at the INM may be regulated by a subgroup of PUX proteins, which determine the substrate specificity or affect the ATPase activity of CDC48. These PUX proteins specifically associate with the nucleoskeleton underneath the INM and physically interact with CDC48 proteins to negatively regulate INM protein degradation in plants.
PXD015919	32601417	Global profiling of plant nuclear membrane proteome in Arabidopsis. 	Membrane protein landscape of plant nuclear envelope and nuclear pore complex	Arabidopsis seedling, BioID2, LFQMS, MM, NE, PL-LFQMS, PNET	The nuclear envelope (NE) is structurally and functionally vital for eukaryotic cells, yet its protein constituents and their functions are poorly understood in plants. Here, we combined subtractive proteomics and proximity-labelling technology coupled with quantitative mass spectrometry to understand the landscape of NE membrane proteins in Arabidopsis. We identified ~200 potential candidates for plant NE transmembrane (PNET) proteins, which unravelled the compositional diversity and uniqueness of the plant NE. One of the candidates, named PNET1, is a homologue of human TMEM209, a critical driver for lung cancer. A functional investigation revealed that PNET1 is a bona fide nucleoporin in plants. It displays both physical and genetic interactions with the nuclear pore complex (NPC) and is essential for embryo development and reproduction in different NPC contexts. Our study substantially enlarges the plant NE proteome and sheds new light on the membrane composition and function of the NPC.
PXD019608	32605621	The evolution of the Puf superfamily of proteins across the tree of eukaryotes. 	The evolution of the Puf superfamily of proteins across the tree of eukaryotes.	Giardia intestinalis, LECA, Puf superfamily proteins, RNA processing, RNA-binding protein	BACKGROUND: Eukaryotic gene expression is controlled by a number of RNA-binding proteins (RBP), such as the proteins from the Puf (Pumilio and FBF) superfamily (PufSF). These proteins bind to RNA via multiple Puf repeat domains, each of which specifically recognizes a single RNA base. Recently, three diversified PufSF proteins have been described in model organisms, each of which is responsible for the maturation of ribosomal RNA or the translational regulation of mRNAs; however, less is known about the role of these proteins across eukaryotic diversity. RESULTS: Here, we investigated the distribution and function of PufSF RBPs in the tree of eukaryotes. We determined that the following PufSF proteins are universally conserved across eukaryotes and can be broadly classified into three groups: (i) Nop9 orthologues, which participate in the nucleolar processing of immature 18S rRNA; (ii) 'classical' Pufs, which control the translation of mRNA; and (iii) PUM3 orthologues, which are involved in the maturation of 7S rRNA. In nearly all eukaryotes, the rRNA maturation proteins, Nop9 and PUM3, are retained as a single copy, while mRNA effectors ('classical' Pufs) underwent multiple lineage-specific expansions. We propose that the variation in number of 'classical' Pufs relates to the size of the transcriptome and thus the potential mRNA targets. We further distinguished full set of PufSF proteins in divergent metamonad Giardia intestinalis and initiated their cellular and biochemical characterization. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the last eukaryotic common ancestor (LECA) already contained all three types of PufSF proteins and that 'classical' Pufs then underwent lineage-specific expansions.
PXD019509	32605748	Bovine Respiratory Syncytial Virus Decreased Pasteurella multocida Adherence by Downregulating the Expression of Intercellular Adhesion Molecule-1 on the Surface of Upper Respiratory Epithelial Cells. 	Bovine Respiratory Disease Complex	BRSV, Bovine respiratory epithelial cells	The synergistic infection of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and Pasteurella multocida (PM) may predispose cattle to develop severe pneumonia. Previously, we reported that BRSV infection significantly decreased PM adherence to the upper respiratory epithelial cells. It may allow bacteria to invade into the lower respiratory tract and lead to severe pneumonia. To investigate whether BRSV infection regulates the cell surface adherence receptor on bovine trachea epithelial cells (bTECs), we performed proteomic and functional analyses. BRSV infection decreased the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM1) on bTECs. Inhibition and knockdown experiments using anti-ICAM1 antibody and siRNAs targeting ICAM1 indicated that PM adherence to bTECs was dependent on ICAM1 expression. These data suggest that under normal conditions bTECs may capture PM in the upper respiratory tract, while BRSV infection reverses this mechanism. The proposed gateway function of bTECs is disrupted by BRSV infection that may facilitate bacterial invasion into the lower respiratory tract and lead to secondary or more severe respiratory infection.
PXD017723	32606017	FYN and ABL Regulate the Interaction Networks of the DCBLD Receptor Family. 	Fyn- and Abl-driven interactome and post-translational modifications of DCBLD1 and DCBLD2	CLCP1, DCBLD1, DCBLD2, ESDN	The Discoidin, CUB, and LCCL domain-containing protein (DCBLD) family consists of two type-I transmembrane scaffolding receptors, DCBLD1 and DCBLD2, which play important roles in development and cancer. The nonreceptor tyrosine kinases FYN and ABL are known to drive phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in YXXP motifs within the intracellular domains of DCBLD family members, which leads to the recruitment of the Src homology 2 (SH2) domain of the adaptors CT10 regulator of kinase (CRK) and CRK-like (CRKL). We previously characterized the FYN- and ABL-driven phosphorylation of DCBLD family YXXP motifs. However, we have identified additional FYN- and ABL-dependent phosphorylation sites on DCBLD1 and DCBLD2. This suggests that beyond CRK and CRKL, additional DCBLD interactors may be regulated by FYN and ABL activity. Here, we report a quantitative proteomics approach in which we map the FYN- and ABL-regulated interactomes of DCBLD family members. We found FYN and ABL regulated the binding of several signaling molecules to DCBLD1 and DCBLD2, including members of the 14-3-3 family of adaptors. Biochemical investigation of the DCBLD2/14-3-3 interaction revealed ABL-induced binding of 14-3-3 family members directly to DCBLD2.
PXD006882	32609523	Effectiveness of Resistive Vibration Exercise and Whey Protein Supplementation Plus Alkaline Salt on the Skeletal Muscle Proteome Following 21 Days of Bed Rest in Healthy Males. 	Human (21d bed rest) Muscle LC-MSMS	atrophy, countermeasures, inactivity, muscle	Muscle atrophy is a deleterious consequence of physical inactivity and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The aim of this study was to decipher the mechanisms involved in disuse muscle atrophy in eight healthy men using a 21 day bed rest with a cross-over design (control, with resistive vibration exercise (RVE), or RVE combined with whey protein supplementation and an alkaline salt (NEX)). The main physiological findings show a significant reduction in whole-body fat-free mass (CON -4.1%, RVE -4.3%, NEX -2.7%, p < 0.05), maximal oxygen consumption (CON -20.5%, RVE -6.46%, NEX -7.9%, p < 0.05), and maximal voluntary contraction (CON -15%, RVE -12%, and NEX -9.5%, p < 0.05) and a reduction in mitochondrial enzyme activity (CON -30.7%, RVE -31.3%, NEX -17%, p < 0.05). The benefits of nutrition and exercise countermeasure were evident with an increase in leg lean mass (CON -1.7%, RVE +8.9%, NEX +15%, p < 0.05). Changes to the vastus lateralis muscle proteome were characterized using mass spectrometry-based label-free quantitative proteomics, the findings of which suggest alterations to cell metabolism, mitochondrial metabolism, protein synthesis, and degradation pathways during bed rest. The observed changes were partially mitigated during RVE, but there were no significant pathway changes during the NEX trial. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD006882. In conclusion, resistive vibration exercise, when combined with whey/alkalizing salt supplementation, could be an effective strategy to prevent skeletal muscle protein changes, muscle atrophy, and insulin sensitivity during medium duration bed rest.
PXD015620	32609809	RNA aptamer capture of macromolecular complexes for mass spectrometry analysis. 	Aptamer Affinity Mass Spectrometry	Aptamer, HCT116, Heat Shock Factor, RNA Aptamer, S2	Specific genomic functions are dictated by macromolecular complexes (MCs) containing multiple proteins. Affinity purification of these complexes, often using antibodies, followed by mass spectrometry (MS) has revolutionized our ability to identify the composition of MCs. However, conventional immunoprecipitations suffer from contaminating antibody/serum-derived peptides that limit the sensitivity of detection for low-abundant interacting partners using MS. Here, we present AptA-MS (aptamer affinity-mass spectrometry), a robust strategy primarily using a specific, high-affinity RNA aptamer against Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) to identify interactors of a GFP-tagged protein of interest by high-resolution MS. Utilizing this approach, we have identified the known molecular chaperones that interact with human Heat Shock Factor 1 (HSF1), and observed an increased association with several proteins upon heat shock, including translation elongation factors and histones. HSF1 is known to be regulated by multiple post-translational modifications (PTMs), and we observe both known and new sites of modifications on HSF1. We show that AptA-MS provides a dramatic target enrichment and detection sensitivity in evolutionarily diverse organisms and allows identification of PTMs without the need for modification-specific enrichments. In combination with the expanding libraries of GFP-tagged cell lines, this strategy offers a general, inexpensive, and high-resolution alternative to conventional approaches for studying MCs.
PXD019886	32611769	Methyltransferase-like 21C (METTL21C) methylates alanine tRNA synthetase at Lys-943 in muscle tissue. 	METTL21C methylates Alanine tRNA synthetase at lysine 943 in muscle tissue	AARS1, Methylation	Protein-lysine methylation is a common posttranslational modification (PTM) throughout the human proteome that plays important roles in diverse biological processes. In humans, there are >100 known and candidate protein lysine methyltransferases (PKMTs), many of which are linked to human diseases. Methyltransferase-like protein 21C (METTL21C) is a PKMT implicated in muscle biology that has been reported to methylate valosin-containing protein/p97 (VCP) and heat shock 70-kDa protein 8 (HSPA8). However, a clear in vitro methyltransferase activity for METTL21C remains yet to be demonstrated, and whether it is an active enzyme that directly methylates substrate(s) in vivo is unclear. Here, we used an unbiased biochemistry-based screening assay coupled to MS, which identified alanine tRNA synthetase 1 (AARS1) as a direct substrate of METTL21C. We found that METTL21C catalyzes methylation of Lys-943 of AARS1 (AARS1-K943me) both in vitro and in vivoIn vitro METTL21C-mediated AARS1 methylation was independent of ATP or tRNA molecules. Unlike for AARS1, and in conflict with previous reports, we did not detect METTL21C methylation of VCP and HSPA8. AARS1-K943 methylation in HEK293T cells depends upon METTL21C levels. Finally, METTL2C was almost exclusively expressed in muscle tissue, and, accordingly, we detected METTL21C-catalyzed methylation of AARS1 in mouse skeletal muscle tissue. These results reveal that AARS1 is a bona fide in vitro substrate of METTL21C and suggest a role for the METTL21C-AARS1 axis in the regulation of protein synthesis in muscle tissue. Moreover, our study describes a straightforward protocol for elucidating the physiological substrates of poorly characterized or uncharacterized PKMTs.
PXD014577	32612191	Global analysis of protein degradation in prion infected cells. 	Global analysis of protein degradation rates during prion infection	N2a, RML, cell culture, lysosome, prion	Prion diseases are rare, neurological disorders caused by the misfolding of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into cytotoxic fibrils (PrP(Sc)). Intracellular PrP(Sc) aggregates primarily accumulate within late endosomes and lysosomes, organelles that participate in the degradation and turnover of a large subset of the proteome. Thus, intracellular accumulation of PrP(Sc) aggregates has the potential to globally influence protein degradation kinetics within an infected cell. We analyzed the proteome-wide effect of prion infection on protein degradation rates in N2a neuroblastoma cells by dynamic stable isotopic labeling with amino acids in cell culture (dSILAC) and bottom-up proteomics. The analysis quantified the degradation rates of more than 4,700 proteins in prion infected and uninfected cells. As expected, the degradation rate of the prion protein is significantly decreased upon aggregation in infected cells. In contrast, the degradation kinetics of the remainder of the N2a proteome generally increases upon prion infection. This effect occurs concurrently with increases in the cellular activities of autophagy and some lysosomal hydrolases. The resulting enhancement in proteome flux may play a role in the survival of N2a cells upon prion infection.
PXD017856	32612236	Systematic quantitative analysis of ribosome inventory during nutrient stress. 	HEK293T cell nuclear & cytosolic proteome remodelling upon amino acid withdrawal. Related to Supplementary Table 4 from An et al (2020)	Cytosolic Nuclear Fractionation	Mammalian cells reorganize their proteomes in response to nutrient stress through translational suppression and degradative mechanisms using the proteasome and autophagy systems(1,2). Ribosomes are central targets of this response, as they are responsible for translation and subject to lysosomal turnover during nutrient stress(3-5). The abundance of ribosomal (r)-proteins (around 6% of the proteome; 10(7) copies per cell)(6,7) and their high arginine and lysine content has led to the hypothesis that they are selectively used as a source of basic amino acids during nutrient stress through autophagy(4,7). However, the relative contributions of translational and degradative mechanisms to the control of r-protein abundance during acute stress responses is poorly understood, as is the extent to which r-proteins are used to generate amino acids when specific building blocks are limited(7). Here, we integrate quantitative global translatome and degradome proteomics(8) with genetically encoded Ribo-Keima(5) and Ribo-Halo reporters to interrogate r-protein homeostasis with and without active autophagy. In conditions of acute nutrient stress, cells strongly suppress the translation of r-proteins, but, notably, r-protein degradation occurs largely through non-autophagic pathways. Simultaneously, the decrease in r-protein abundance is compensated for by a reduced dilution of pre-existing ribosomes and a reduction in cell volume, thereby maintaining the density of ribosomes within single cells. Withdrawal of basic or hydrophobic amino acids induces translational repression without differential induction of ribophagy, indicating that ribophagy is not used to selectively produce basic amino acids during acute nutrient stress. We present a quantitative framework that describes the contributions of biosynthetic and degradative mechanisms to r-protein abundance and proteome remodelling in conditions of nutrient stress.
PXD019234	32612956	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Maps of Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma From Chinese Patients. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic maps of lung squamous cell carcinoma from Chinese patients	lung squamous cell carcinoma, phosphoproteomics	Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) is one of the leading causes of tumor-driven deaths in the world. To date, studies on the tumor heterogeneity of LUSC at genomic level have only revealed limited therapeutic benefits. Therefore, system-wide research of LUSC at proteomic level may further improve precision medicine strategies on individual demands. To this end, we performed proteomic and phosphoproteomic study for LUSC samples of 25 Chinese patients. From our results, two subgroups (Cluster I and II) based on proteomic data were identified, which were associated with distinct molecular characteristics and clinicopathologic features. Combined with phosphoproteomic data, our result showed that spliceosome pathway was enriched in Cluster I, while focal adhesion pathway, immune-related pathways and Ras signaling pathway were enriched in Cluster II. In addition, we found that lymph node metastasis (LNM) was associated with our proteomic subgroups and cell cycle pathway was enriched in patients with LNM. Further analysis showed that MCM2, a DNA replication licensing factor involved in cell cycle pathway, was highly expressed in patients with poor prognosis, which was further proved by immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis. In summary, our study provided a resource of the proteomic and phosphoproteomic features of LUSC in Chinese patients.
PXD011642	32613749	Novel insights into the taxonomic diversity and molecular mechanisms of bacterial Mn(III) reduction. 	Competition between microbes during anaerobic oxidation of methane: Bioreactor metaproteomics	Dechloromonas, Lake sediment, bioreactor	Soluble ligand-bound Mn(III) can support anaerobic microbial respiration in diverse aquatic environments. Thus far, Mn(III) reduction has only been associated with certain Gammaproteobacteria. Here, we characterized microbial communities enriched from Mn-replete sediments of Lake Matano, Indonesia. Our results provide the first evidence for the biological reduction of soluble Mn(III) outside the Gammaproteobacteria. Metagenome assembly and binning revealed a novel betaproteobacterium, which we designate 'Candidatus Dechloromonas occultata.' This organism dominated the enrichment and expressed a porin-cytochrome c complex typically associated with iron-oxidizing Betaproteobacteria and a novel cytochrome c-rich protein cluster (Occ), including an undecaheme putatively involved in extracellular electron transfer. This occ gene cluster was also detected in diverse aquatic bacteria, including uncultivated Betaproteobacteria from the deep subsurface. These observations provide new insight into the taxonomic and functional diversity of microbially driven Mn(III) reduction in natural environments.
PXD017257	32614141	Targeted Mass Spectrometry of a Clinically Relevant PSA Variant from Post-DRE Urines for Quantitation and Genotype Determination. 	Targeted Mass Spectrometry of a Clinically Relevant PSA Variant from Post-DRE Urines for Quantitation and Genotype Determination	Genotype, PRM, PSA, Prostate Cancer, Urine	PURPOSE: The rs17632542 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) results in lower serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels which may further mitigate against its clinical utility as a prostate cancer biomarker. Post-digital rectal exam (post-DRE) urine is a minimally invasive fluid that is currently utilized in prostate cancer diagnosis. To detect and quantitate the variant protein in urine. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Fifty-three post-DRE urines from rs17632542 genotyped individuals processed and analyzed by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC-MS) in a double-blinded randomized study. The ability to distinguish between homozygous wild-type, heterozygous, or homozygous variant is examined before unblinding. RESULTS: Stable-isotope labeled peptides are used in the detection and quantitation of three peptides of interest in each sample using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Using these data, groupings are predicted using hierarchical clustering in R. Accuracy of the predictions show 100% concordance across the 53 samples, including individuals homozygous and heterozygous for the SNP. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The study demonstrates that MS based peptide variant quantitation in urine could be useful in determining patient genotype expression. This assay provides a tool to evaluate the utility of PSA variant (rs17632542) in parallel with current and forthcoming urine biomarker panels.
PXD019559	32614325	Interaction mapping of endoplasmic reticulum ubiquitin ligases identifies modulators of innate immune signalling. 	Interaction mapping of endoplasmic reticulum ubiquitin ligases identifies modulators of innate immune signalling	Endoplasmic reticulum, RNF26, STING, innate immune response, ubiquitin ligase	Ubiquitin ligases (E3s) embedded in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane regulate essential cellular activities including protein quality control, calcium flux, and sterol homeostasis. At least 25 different, transmembrane domain (TMD)-containing E3s are predicted to be ER-localised, but for most their organisation and cellular roles remain poorly defined. Using a comparative proteomic workflow, we mapped over 450 protein-protein interactions for 21 stably expressed, full-length E3s. Bioinformatic analysis linked ER-E3s and their interactors to multiple homeostatic, regulatory, and metabolic pathways. Among these were four membrane-embedded interactors of RNF26, a polytopic E3 whose abundance is auto-regulated by ubiquitin-proteasome dependent degradation. RNF26 co-assembles with TMEM43, ENDOD1, TMEM33 and TMED1 to form a complex capable of modulating innate immune signalling through the cGAS-STING pathway. This RNF26 complex represents a new modulatory axis of STING and innate immune signalling at the ER membrane. Collectively, these data reveal the broad scope of regulation and differential functionalities mediated by ER-E3s for both membrane-tethered and cytoplasmic processes.
PXD016560	32615701	Proteomic Signatures of Healthy Intervertebral Discs From Organ Donors: A Comparison With Previous Studies on Discs From Scoliosis, Animals, and Trauma. 	Proteomic Signature of Nucleus Pulposus of Human Intervertebral Disc	ESI-LC-MS/MS, IVD, NP	OBJECTIVE: To catalog and characterize the proteome of normal human intervertebral disc (IVD). METHODS: Nine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) normal IVDs were harvested from 9 different brain dead yet alive voluntary organ donors and were subjected to electrospray ionization-liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-LC-MS/MS) acquisition. RESULTS: A total of 1,116 proteins were identified. Functional enrichment analysis tool DAVID ver. 6.8 categorized: extracellular proteins (38%), intracellular (31%), protein-containing complex (13%), organelle (9%), membrane proteins (6%), supramolecular complex (2%), and 1% in the cell junction. Molecular function revealed: binding activity (42%), catalytic activity (31%), regulatory activity (14%), and structural activity (7%). Molecular transducer, transporter, and transcription regulator activity together contributed to 6%. A comparison of the proteins obtained from this study to others in the literature showed a wide variation in content with only 3% of bovine, 5% of murine, 54% of human scoliotic discs, and 10.2% of discs adjacent to lumbar burst fractures common to our study of organ donors. Between proteins reported in scoliosis and lumbar fracture patients, only 13.51% were common, further signifying the contrast amongst the various MRI normal IVD samples. CONCLUSION: The proteome of "healthy" human IVDs has been defined, and our results show that proteomic data on IVDs obtained from scoliosis, fracture patients, and cadavers lack normal physiological conditions and should not be used as biological controls despite normal MRI findings. This questions the validity of previous studies that have used such discs as controls for analyzing the pathomechanisms of disc degeneration.
PXD019477	32616023	Ileal proteomic changes associated with IL-25-mediated resistance against intestinal trematode infections. 	Ileal proteomic changes associated with IL-25-mediated resistance against intestinal trematode infections	Echinostoma caproni, interleukin-25, intestinal helminths, intestine, trematoda	BACKGROUND: Echinostoma caproni (Trematoda: Echinostomatidae) is an intestinal trematode, which has been extensively used to investigate the factors that determine the rejection of intestinal helminths. In this sense, several studies have shown that IL-25 is critical for the development of resistance against E. caproni in mice. In fact, treatment of mice with recombinant IL-25 generates resistance against primary E. caproni infection. However, the mechanisms by which IL-25 induces resistance remain unknown. METHODS: To study the mechanisms responsible for resistance elicited by IL-25, we analyzed the ileal proteomic changes induced by IL-25 in mice and their potential role in resistance. To this purpose, we compared the protein expression profiles in the ileum of four experimental groups of mice: naive controls; E. caproni-infected mice; rIL-25-treated mice; and rIL-25-treated mice exposed to E. caproni metacercariae. RESULTS: Quantitative comparison by 2D-DIGE showed significant changes in a total of 41 spots. Of these, 40 validated protein spots were identified by mass spectrometry corresponding to 24 proteins. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that resistance to infection is associated with the maintenance of the intestinal epithelial homeostasis and the regulation of proliferation and cell death. These results provide new insights into the proteins involved in the regulation of tissue homeostasis after intestinal infection and its transcendence in resistance.
PXD018745	32616651	The autophagy protein Ambra1 regulates gene expression by supporting novel transcriptional complexes. 	A novel transcriptional signalling pathway mediated by the trafficking protein Ambra1 via scaffolding Atf2 complexes	Interaction proteomics, signalling	Ambra1 is considered an autophagy and trafficking protein with roles in neurogenesis and cancer cell invasion. Here, we report that Ambra1 also localizes to the nucleus of cancer cells, where it has a novel nuclear scaffolding function that controls gene expression. Using biochemical fractionation and proteomics, we found that Ambra1 binds to multiple classes of proteins in the nucleus, including nuclear pore proteins, adaptor proteins such as FAK and Akap8, chromatin-modifying proteins, and transcriptional regulators like Brg1 and Atf2. We identified biologically important genes, such as Angpt1, Tgfb2, Tgfb3, Itga8, and Itgb7, whose transcription is regulated by Ambra1-scaffolded complexes, likely by altering histone modifications and Atf2 activity. Therefore, in addition to its recognized roles in autophagy and trafficking, Ambra1 scaffolds protein complexes at chromatin, regulating transcriptional signaling in the nucleus. This novel function for Ambra1, and the specific genes impacted, may help to explain the wider role of Ambra1 in cancer cell biology.
PXD017077	32616663	Autophagy Plays Prominent Roles in Amino Acid, Nucleotide, and Carbohydrate Metabolism during Fixed-Carbon Starvation in Maize. 	INTEGRATED MULTI-OMICS ANALYSES OF MAIZE REVEAL ROLES FOR AUTOPHAGIC DURING FIXED CARBON STARVATION	Autophagy, LCMS, Maize	Autophagic recycling of proteins, lipids, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and organelles is essential for cellular homeostasis and optimal health, especially under nutrient-limiting conditions. To better understand how this turnover affects plant growth, development, and survival upon nutrient stress, we applied an integrated multiomics approach to study maize (Zea mays) autophagy mutants subjected to fixed-carbon starvation induced by darkness. Broad metabolic alterations were evident in leaves missing the core autophagy component ATG12 under normal growth conditions (e.g., lipids and secondary metabolism), while changes in amino acid-, carbohydrate-, and nucleotide-related metabolites selectively emerged during fixed-carbon starvation. Through combined proteomic and transcriptomic analyses, we identified numerous autophagy-responsive proteins, which revealed processes underpinning the various metabolic changes seen during carbon stress as well as potential autophagic cargo. Strikingly, a strong upregulation of various catabolic processes was observed in the absence of autophagy, including increases in simple carbohydrate levels with a commensurate drop in starch levels, elevated free amino acid levels with a corresponding reduction in intact protein levels, and a strong increase in the abundance of several nitrogen-rich nucleotide catabolites. Altogether, this analysis showed that fixed-carbon starvation in the absence of autophagy adjusts the choice of respiratory substrates, promotes the transition of peroxisomes to glyoxysomes, and enhances the retention of assimilated nitrogen.
PXD019864	32618195	Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry-Based Nontargeted Metabolomics Predicts Prognosis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma after Curative Resection. 	Liquid chromatography mass spectrometry-based nontargeted metabolomics predicts prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma after curative resection	Global prognostic index, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Metabolomics, Network-based feature selection method, Prognosis	Assessment and prediction of prognostic risk in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) would greatly benefit the optimal treatment selection. Here, we aimed to identify the critical metabolites associated with the outcomes and develop a risk score to assess the prognosis of HCC patients after curative resection. A total of 78 serum samples of HCC patients were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to characterize the metabolic profiling. A novel network-based feature selection method (NFSM) was developed to define the critical metabolites with the most discriminant capacity to outcomes. The metabolites defined by NFSM was further reduced by Cox regression analysis to generate a prognostic metabolite panel-phenylalanine and choline. Furthermore, univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were applied to combine the metabolite panel with the presence of satellite nodes to generate a global prognostic index (GPI) score for overall survival assessment. Compared with the current clinical classification systems, including the Barcelona-clinic liver cancer stage, tumor-node-metastasis stage, and albumin-bilirubin grade, the GPI score presented comparable performance, according to the time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves and was validated in an independent cohort, which suggested that metabolomics could serve as a helpful tool to stratify the HCC prognostic risk after operation.
PXD016957	32618196	Sequential Precipitation and Delipidation Enables Efficient Enrichment of Low-Molecular Weight Proteins and Peptides from Human Plasma. 	Optimized MeOH/MTBE-based Protein Precipitation and Lipid Removal Enables High Enrichment of Low Molecular Weight Peptides and Proteins from Human Plasma	plasma	Low-molecular weight proteins and peptides (LMWPs, <30 kDa) in human plasma serve as potential biomarkers or drug targets and are endowed with desirable traits for biological and clinical studies. However, the identification of LMWPs from plasma is retarded by high-abundance proteins, high-molecular weight proteins, and lipids. Here, we present a sequential precipitation and delipidation (SPD) method for the efficient enrichment of LMWPs based on methyl-tert-butyl ether/methanol/water systems. The enriched LMWP sample was analyzed by single-shot liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry employing both HCD and EThcD without tryptic digestion, and 725 peptides were identified on average. The LMWP sample was also digested and analyzed using a bottom-up proteomics pipeline, and 289 proteins were identified, of which 129 (44.6%) proteins were less than 30 kDa and lipoprotein-associated proteins were significantly enriched. Additionally, 25 neuropeptides and 19 long noncoding RNA-encoded polypeptides were identified. Taken together, the SPD method shows good sensitivity and reproducibility when compared with other enrichment methods and has great potential for clinical biomarker discovery and application.
PXD019677	32618271	Profiling of myristoylation in Toxoplasma gondii reveals an N-myristoylated protein important for host cell penetration. 	Global profiling of myristoylation in Toxoplasma gondii	Chemical proteomics, N-myristoylation, NMT inhibition, Toxoplasma	N-myristoylation is a ubiquitous class of protein lipidation across eukaryotes and N-myristoyl transferase (NMT) has been proposed as an attractive drug target in several pathogens. Myristoylation often primes for subsequent palmitoylation and stable membrane attachment, however, growing evidence suggests additional regulatory roles for myristoylation on proteins. Here we describe the myristoylated proteome of Toxoplasma gondii using chemoproteomic methods and show that a small-molecule NMT inhibitor developed against related Plasmodium spp. is also functional in Toxoplasma. We identify myristoylation on a transmembrane protein, the microneme protein 7 (MIC7), which enters the secretory pathway in an unconventional fashion with the myristoylated N-terminus facing the lumen of the micronemes. MIC7 and its myristoylation play a crucial role in the initial steps of invasion, likely during the interaction with and penetration of the host cell. Myristoylation of secreted eukaryotic proteins represents a substantial expansion of the functional repertoire of this co-translational modification.
PXD016583	32618424	LymphoAtlas: a dynamic and integrated phosphoproteomic resource of TCR signaling in primary T cells reveals ITSN2 as a regulator of effector functions. 	Time-resolved phosphoproteomic analysis of OT-I CD8+ T cells stimulated with MHC-I tetramers loaded with N4 agonist peptide	CD8+ T cells, OT1, TCR, agonist peptide, phosphoproteomics, signaling	T-cell receptor (TCR) ligation-mediated protein phosphorylation regulates the activation, cellular responses, and fates of T cells. Here, we used time-resolved high-resolution phosphoproteomics to identify, quantify, and characterize the phosphorylation dynamics of thousands of phosphorylation sites in primary T cells during the first 10 min after TCR stimulation. Bioinformatic analysis of the data revealed a coherent orchestration of biological processes underlying T-cell activation. In particular, functional modules associated with cytoskeletal remodeling, transcription, translation, and metabolic processes were mobilized within seconds after TCR engagement. Among proteins whose phosphorylation was regulated by TCR stimulation, we demonstrated, using a fast-track gene inactivation approach in primary lymphocytes, that the ITSN2 adaptor protein regulated T-cell effector functions. This resource, called LymphoAtlas, represents an integrated pipeline to further decipher the organization of the signaling network encoding T-cell activation. LymphoAtlas is accessible to the community at: https://bmm-lab.github.io/LymphoAtlas.
PXD019407	32618437	Peptides in Plasma, Urine, and Dialysate: Toward Unravelling Renal Peptide Handling. 	Peptides in plasma, urine, and dialysate: towards unraveling renal peptide handling	clinical study, hemodialysis fluid, plasma, thymosin beta-4, urine	PURPOSE: The peptidomes of spent hemodialysate, urine, and plasma are investigated, to shed light on peptide handling in the kidney. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Fifteen plasma, 15 urine, and 13 spent hemodialysate samples are collected from age- and sex-matched subjects with chronic kidney disease. Peptide identification and quantification are performed with capillary electrophoresis-coupled mass spectrometry. RESULTS: A total of 6278 urinary peptides, 1743 plasma peptides, and 1727 peptides from spent hemodialysate are detected. Of these, sequences can be assigned to 1580, 419, and 352 peptides, respectively. A strong correlation in peptide abundance between urine and spent hemodialysate (p = 3 x 10(-21) , Rho = 0.52), a moderately strong correlation between spent hemodialysate and plasma (p = 4.5 x 10(-5) , Rho = 0.30), and no significant correlation between urine and plasma (p = 0.11, Rho = 0.094) are found. Collagen and fibrinogen alpha peptides are highly abundant in all three body fluids. In spent hemodialysate, thymosin beta4 is one of the most abundant peptides, which is shown to be negatively associated with the estimated glomerular filtration rate (Rho = -0.39, p-value = 3.9 x 10(-81) ). CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The correlation of peptide abundance in these three body fluids is lower than expected, supporting the hypothesis that tubular reabsorption has a major impact on urinary peptide content. Further investigation of thymosin beta4 in hemodialysis is thus warranted.
PXD013772	32619221	Anti-inflammatory functions of the glucocorticoid receptor require DNA binding. 	ChIP-MS of GR and GR-DZn in mouse embryonic fibroblasts	chromatin, coregulator, hormone, steroid receptor	The glucocorticoid receptor is an important immunosuppressive drug target and metabolic regulator that acts as a ligand-gated transcription factor. Generally, GR's anti-inflammatory effects are attributed to the silencing of inflammatory genes, while its adverse effects are ascribed to the upregulation of metabolic targets. GR binding directly to DNA is proposed to activate, whereas GR tethering to pro-inflammatory transcription factors is thought to repress transcription. Using mice with a point mutation in GR's zinc finger, that still tether via protein-protein interactions while being unable to recognize DNA, we demonstrate that DNA binding is essential for both transcriptional activation and repression. Performing ChIP-Seq, RNA-Seq and proteomics under inflammatory conditions, we show that DNA recognition is required for the assembly of a functional co-regulator complex to mediate glucocorticoid responses. Our findings may contribute to the development of safer immunomodulators with fewer side effects.
PXD018594	32619390	Shotgun proteomics analysis of SARS-CoV-2-infected cells and how it can optimize whole viral particle antigen production for vaccines. 	Shotgun proteomics of Vero E6 cells infected by Italy-INMI1 SARS-CoV-2 virus	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, coronavirus, host response, kinetics, severe acute respiratory syndrome, vaccine, viral particle, virus	Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has resulted in a pandemic and is continuing to spread rapidly around the globe. No effective vaccine is currently available to prevent COVID-19, and intense efforts are being invested worldwide into vaccine development. In this context, all technology platforms must overcome several challenges resulting from the use of an incompletely characterized new virus. These include finding the right conditions for virus amplification for the development of vaccines based on inactivated or attenuated whole viral particles. Here, we describe a shotgun tandem mass spectrometry workflow, the data produced can be used to guide optimization of the conditions for viral amplification. In parallel, we analysed the changes occurring in the host cell proteome following SARS-CoV-2 infection to glean information on the biological processes modulated by the virus that could be further explored as potential drug targets to deal with the pandemic.
PXD019597	32620552	Phosphorylation on Ser-359 of the alpha2 subunit in GABA type A receptors down-regulates their density at inhibitory synapses. 	Phosphorylation of GABAAR alpha2 subunit	GABAAR, Phosphorylation, alpha2	GABA type A receptors (GABAARs) mediate fast synaptic inhibition and are trafficked to functionally diverse synapses. However, the precise molecular mechanisms that regulate the synaptic targeting of these receptors are unclear. Whereas it has been previously shown that phosphorylation events in alpha4, beta, and gamma subunits of GABAARs govern their function and trafficking, phosphorylation of other subunits has not yet been demonstrated. Here, we show that the alpha2 subunit of GABAARs is phosphorylated at Ser-359 and enables dynamic regulation of GABAAR binding to the scaffolding proteins gephyrin and collybistin. We initially identified Ser-359 phosphorylation by MS analysis, and additional experiments revealed that it is regulated by the activities of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and/or PP2A. GST-based pulldowns and coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate preferential binding of both gephyrin and collybistin to WT and an S359A phosphonull variant, but not to an S359D phosphomimetic variant. Furthermore, the decreased capacity of the alpha2 S359D variant to bind collybistin and gephyrin decreased the density of synaptic alpha2-containing GABAAR clusters and caused an absence of alpha2 enrichment in the axon initial segment. These results suggest that PKA-mediated phosphorylation and PP1/PP2A-dependent dephosphorylation of the alpha2 subunit play a role in the dynamic regulation of GABAAR accumulation at inhibitory synapses, thereby regulating the strength of synaptic inhibition. The MS data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange, with the data set identifier PXD019597.
PXD018990	32620747	TMEM16K is an interorganelle regulator of endosomal sorting. 	TMEM16K is an interorganelle regulator of endosomal sorting.	BioID, TMEM16K, endosomal sorting	Communication between organelles is essential for their cellular homeostasis. Neurodegeneration reflects the declining ability of neurons to maintain cellular homeostasis over a lifetime, where the endolysosomal pathway plays a prominent role by regulating protein and lipid sorting and degradation. Here we report that TMEM16K, an endoplasmic reticulum lipid scramblase causative for spinocerebellar ataxia (SCAR10), is an interorganelle regulator of the endolysosomal pathway. We identify endosomal transport as a major functional cluster of TMEM16K in proximity biotinylation proteomics analyses. TMEM16K forms contact sites with endosomes, reconstituting split-GFP with the small GTPase RAB7. Our study further implicates TMEM16K lipid scrambling activity in endosomal sorting at these sites. Loss of TMEM16K function led to impaired endosomal retrograde transport and neuromuscular function, one of the symptoms of SCAR10. Thus, TMEM16K-containing ER-endosome contact sites represent clinically relevant platforms for regulating endosomal sorting.
PXD015545	32620753	Integrated pharmaco-proteogenomics defines two subgroups in isocitrate dehydrogenase wild-type glioblastoma with prognostic and therapeutic opportunities. 	Human Glioblastoma Multiforme Tissue Proteome	Glioblastoma Multiforme, Phosphoproteome, Quantitation, TMT	The prognostic and therapeutic relevance of molecular subtypes for the most aggressive isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 (IDH) wild-type glioblastoma (GBM) is currently limited due to high molecular heterogeneity of the tumors that impedes patient stratification. Here, we describe a distinct binary classification of IDH wild-type GBM tumors derived from a quantitative proteomic analysis of 39 IDH wild-type GBMs as well as IDH mutant and low-grade glioma controls. Specifically, GBM proteomic cluster 1 (GPC1) tumors exhibit Warburg-like features, neural stem-cell markers, immune checkpoint ligands, and a poor prognostic biomarker, FKBP prolyl isomerase 9 (FKBP9). Meanwhile, GPC2 tumors show elevated oxidative phosphorylation-related proteins, differentiated oligodendrocyte and astrocyte markers, and a favorable prognostic biomarker, phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH). Integrating these proteomic features with the pharmacological profiles of matched patient-derived cells (PDCs) reveals that the mTORC1/2 dual inhibitor AZD2014 is cytotoxic to the poor prognostic PDCs. Our analyses will guide GBM prognosis and precision treatment strategies.
PXD015045	32620774	Butyrate producing colonic Clostridiales metabolise human milk oligosaccharides and cross feed on mucin via conserved pathways. 	Shotgun proteomics of Roseburia grown on human milk oligosaccharides and of Roseburia grown on mucin in co-culture with Akkermansia muciniphilia.	Akkermansia muciniphilia, HMOs, Metaproteomics, Mucin, O-glycans, Roseburia	The early life human gut microbiota exerts life-long health effects on the host, but the mechanisms underpinning its assembly remain elusive. Particularly, the early colonization of Clostridiales from the Roseburia-Eubacterium group, associated with protection from colorectal cancer, immune- and metabolic disorders is enigmatic. Here, we describe catabolic pathways that support the growth of Roseburia and Eubacterium members on distinct human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs). The HMO pathways, which include enzymes with a previously unknown structural fold and specificity, were upregulated together with additional glycan-utilization loci during growth on selected HMOs and in co-cultures with Akkermansia muciniphila on mucin, suggesting an additional role in enabling cross-feeding and access to mucin O-glycans. Analyses of 4599 Roseburia genomes underscored the preponderance and diversity of the HMO utilization loci within the genus. The catabolism of HMOs by butyrate-producing Clostridiales may contribute to the competitiveness of this group during the weaning-triggered maturation of the microbiota.
PXD019506	32620893	Proteome analysis revealed the essential functions of protein phosphatase PP2A in the induction of Th9 cells. 	Proteome analysis revealed the essential functions of protein phosphatase PP2A in the induction of Th9 cells	PP2A, Th9 cells	Proteomic analysis identifies post-translational functions of proteins, which remains obscure in transcriptomics. Given the important functions of Th9 cells in anti-tumor immunity, we performed proteome analysis of Th9 cells to understand the involvement of proteins that might be crucial for the anti-tumor functions of Th9 cells. Here we performed a comprehensive proteomic analysis of murine Th0 and Th9 cells, and identified proteins that are enriched in Th9 cells. Pathway analysis identified an abundance of phosphoproteins in the proteome of Th9 cells as compared to Th0 cells. Among upregulated phosphoproteins, Ppp2ca (catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase, PP2A) was found to be highly enriched in Th9 cells. Although the role of PP2A has been shown to regulate the differentiation and functions of Th1, Th2, Th17 and Tregs, its role in the differentiation and functions of Th9 cells is not identified yet. Here we found that PP2A is required for the induction of Th9 cells, as PP2A inhibition leads to the suppression of IL-9 and expression of key transcription factors of Th9 cells. PP2A inhibition abrogates Th9 cell-mediated anti-tumor immune response in B16-OVA melanoma tumor model. Thus, we report that PP2A is essential for the differentiation and anti-tumor functions of Th9 cells.
PXD057076	32621591	LOXL2 from human amniotic mesenchymal stem cells accelerates wound epithelialization by promoting differentiation and migration of keratinocytes. 	Proteomic profiling of the human amniotic stem cell-secreted proteins	AECs, AMSCs, Secretion proteome, human amniotic stem cell	In this study, we identified wound healing-related proteins secreted by human amniotic epithelial cells (hAECs) and human amniotic mesenchymal stem cells (hAMSCs). We observed increased migration and reduced proliferation and differentiation when keratinocytes were co-cultured in media conditioned by hAECs (hAECs-CM) and hAMSCs (hAMSCs-CM). Label-free mass spectrometry and bioinformatic analyses of the hAECs-CM and hAMSCs-CM proteome revealed several proteins associated with wound healing, angiogenesis, cellular differentiation, immune response and cell motility. The levels of the proteins related to wound healing, including CTHRC1, LOXL2 and LGALS1, were significantly higher in hAMSCs-CM than hAECs-CM. LOXL2 significantly enhanced in vitro keratinocyte migration and differentiation compared to CTHRC1 and LGALS1. Moreover, LOXL2 enhanced keratinocyte migration and differentiation by activating the JNK signaling pathway. We observed significant reduction in the in vitro migration and differentiation of keratinocytes when co-cultured with medium conditioned by LOXL2-silenced hAMSCs and when treated with 10 muM SP600125, a specific JNK inhibitor. Treatment with hAMSCs-CM and LOXL2 significantly accelerated wound healing in the murine skin wound model. These findings show that LOXL2 promotes wound healing by inducing keratinocyte migration and differentiation via a JNK signaling pathway.
PXD015754	32621609	CASC3 promotes transcriptome-wide activation of nonsense-mediated decay by the exon junction complex. 	The exon junction complex component CASC3 is a major effector of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay in human cells	Exon junction complex, Splicing, nonsense-mediated mRNA decay	The exon junction complex (EJC) is an essential constituent and regulator of spliced messenger ribonucleoprotein particles (mRNPs) in metazoans. As a core component of the EJC, CASC3 was described to be pivotal for EJC-dependent nuclear and cytoplasmic processes. However, recent evidence suggests that CASC3 functions differently from other EJC core proteins. Here, we have established human CASC3 knockout cell lines to elucidate the cellular role of CASC3. In the knockout cells, overall EJC composition and EJC-dependent splicing are unchanged. A transcriptome-wide analysis reveals that hundreds of mRNA isoforms targeted by nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) are upregulated. Mechanistically, recruiting CASC3 to reporter mRNAs by direct tethering or via binding to the EJC stimulates mRNA decay and endonucleolytic cleavage at the termination codon. Building on existing EJC-NMD models, we propose that CASC3 equips the EJC with the persisting ability to communicate with the NMD machinery in the cytoplasm. Collectively, our results characterize CASC3 as a peripheral EJC protein that tailors the transcriptome by promoting the degradation of EJC-dependent NMD substrates.
PXD012679	32621788	Epithelial cadherin regulates transition between the naive and primed pluripotent states in mouse embryonic stem cells. 	Global Proteomic Analysis of E-cadherin Function in Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells Using iTRAQ and LC-MS/MS	E-cadherin, Metabolism, iTRAQ, mESCs	Inhibition of E-cad in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) leads to a switch from LIF-BMP to Activin/Nodal-dependent pluripotency, consistent with transition from a naive to primed pluripotent phenotype. We have used both genetic ablation and steric inhibition of E-cad function in mESCs to assess alterations to phenotype using quantitative mass spectrometry analysis, network models, and functional assays. Proteomic analyses revealed that one third of detected proteins were altered in E-cad null mESCs (Ecad(-/-) mESCs) compared to wild type (624 proteins were downregulated and 705 were proteins upregulated). Network pathway analysis and subsequent cellular flux assays confirmed a metabolic shift from oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to aerobic glycolysis, specifically through mitochondrial complex III downregulation and hypoxia inducible factor 1a target upregulation. Central to this was the transcriptional coactivator EP300. E-cad is a well-known tumor suppressor, its downregulation during cancer initiation and metastasis can be linked to the metabolic switch known as Warburg effect. This study highlights a phenomena found in both primed pluripotent state and cancer stemness and links it to loss of E-cad. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD012679.
PXD017183	32623291	Interspecies assertiveness of Lactobacillus curvatus and Lactobacillus sakei in sausage fermentations. 	Interspecies assertiveness of Lactobacillus curvatus and Lactobacillus sakei in sausage fermentations	Lactobacillus curvatus, Lactobacillus sakei, assertiveness, bacteriocin, fermented sausage, stress tolerance	Lactobacillus (L.) curvatus and L. sakei contain strains, which are assertive in sausage fermentation. Previous work has demonstrated differences in assertiveness at strain level within one species, and revealed either exclusion of competitors by complementary partner strains or their inhibition by single strains. This work addresses interspecies differences in the assertiveness of L. curvatus and L. sakei. Strain sets of L. curvatus and L. sakei were employed as starters in a fermented sausage model and their abundancy upon fermentation was determined by strain-specific MALDI-TOF MS identification. Generally, single or groups of L. sakei strains outcompeted L. curvatus strains. In multiple growth tests employing mMRS and mMSM it could be shown that assertive L. sakei strains can be predicted along their mu max in mMSM. Still, L. curvatus TMW 1.624 could suppress all L. curvatus and most L. sakei strains in competitive settings. This could be referred to its expression of several bacteriocins, which are active against all of the L. curvatus strains. Strain specific differences could be demonstrated in the susceptibility of L. sakei to bacteriocins, and in oxidative stress tolerance, which is higher in co-existing L. sakei strains than in the bacteriocin producer. This suggests that tolerance to bacteriocins and oxidative stress represent additional determinants for assertiveness, above previously reported bacteriocin production versus metabolic complementarism of partner strains.
PXD017832	32625174	Influence of Protein Glycosylation on Campylobacter fetus Physiology. 	Glycosylation analysis of pgl enzyme from C fetus in ecoli	Campylobacter, LC-MS, glycosylation	Campylobacter fetus is commonly associated with venereal disease and abortions in cattle and sheep, and can also cause intestinal or systemic infections in humans that are immunocompromised, elderly, or exposed to infected livestock. It is also believed that C. fetus infection can result from the consumption or handling of contaminated food products, but C. fetus is rarely detected in food since isolation methods are not suited for its detection and the physiology of the organism makes culturing difficult. In the related species, Campylobacter jejuni, the ability to colonize the host has been linked to N-linked protein glycosylation with quantitative proteomics demonstrating that glycosylation is interconnected with cell physiology. Using label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomics, we found more than 100 proteins significantly altered in expression in two C. fetus subsp. fetus protein glycosylation (pgl) mutants (pglX and pglJ) compared to the wild-type. Significant increases in the expression of the (NiFe)-hydrogenase HynABC, catalyzing H2-oxidation for energy harvesting, correlated with significantly increased levels of cellular nickel, improved growth in H2 and increased hydrogenase activity, suggesting that N-glycosylation in C. fetus is involved in regulating the HynABC hydrogenase and nickel homeostasis. To further elucidate the function of the C. fetus pgl pathway and its enzymes, heterologous expression in Escherichia coli followed by mutational and functional analyses revealed that PglX and PglY are novel glycosyltransferases involved in extending the C. fetus hexasaccharide beyond the conserved core, while PglJ and PglA have similar activities to their homologs in C. jejuni. In addition, the pgl mutants displayed decreased motility and ethidium bromide efflux and showed an increased sensitivity to antibiotics. This work not only provides insight into the unique protein N-glycosylation pathway of C. fetus, but also expands our knowledge on the influence of protein N-glycosylation on Campylobacter cell physiology.
PXD018202	32625246	Time-resolved multi-omics analysis reveals the role of nutrient stress-induced resource reallocation for TAG accumulation in oleaginous fungus Mortierella alpina. 	A time-resolved multi-omics atlas of oleaginous fungus M. alpina in response to nitrogen availability	Cell recycling, Lipid biosynthesis, Nutrient stress, Oleaginous microorganism, Resource allocation	BACKGROUND: Global resource reallocation is an established critical strategy through which organisms deal with environmental stress. The regulation of intracellular lipid storage or utilization is one of the most important strategies for maintaining energy homeostasis and optimizing growth. Oleaginous microorganisms respond to nitrogen deprivation by inducing lipid hyper accumulation; however, the associations between resource allocation and lipid accumulation are poorly understood. RESULTS: Here, the time-resolved metabolomics, lipidomics, and proteomics data were generated in response to nutrient availability to examine how metabolic alternations induced by nitrogen deprivation drive the triacylglycerols (TAG) accumulation in M. alpina. The subsequent accumulation of TAG under nitrogen deprivation was a consequence of the reallocation of carbon, nitrogen sources, and lipids, rather than an up-regulation of TAG biosynthesis genes. On one hand, nitrogen deprivation induced the down-regulation of isocitrate dehydrogenase level in TCA cycle and redirected glycolytic flux of carbon from amino acid biosynthesis into fatty acids' synthesis; on the other hand, nitrogen deprivation induced the up-regulation of cell autophagy and ubiquitin-mediated protein proteolysis which resulted in a recycling of preformed protein nitrogen and carbon. Combining with the up-regulation of glutamate decarboxylase and succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase in GABA shunt, and the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in the central hub involving pyruvate/phosphoenolpyruvate/oxaloacetate, the products from nitrogen-containing compounds degradation were recycled to be intermediates of TCA cycle and be shunted toward de novo biosynthesis of fatty acids. We found that nitrogen deprivation increased the protein level of phospholipase C/D that contributes to degradation of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine, and supplied acyl chains for TAG biosynthesis pathway. In addition, ATP from substrate phosphorylation was presumed to be a critical factor regulation of the global resource allocation and fatty acids' synthesis rate. CONCLUSIONS: The present findings offer a panoramic view of resource allocation by M. alpina in response to nutrient stress and revealed a set of intriguing associations between resource reallocation and TAG accumulation. This system-level insight provides a rich resource with which to explore in-depth functional characterization and gain information about the strategic combination of strain development and process integration to achieve optimal lipid productivity under nutrient stress.
PXD018350	32627867	Trnp1 organizes diverse nuclear membrane-less compartments in neural stem cells. 	Trnp1 is a novel regulator of several nuclear membrane-less compartments	Nucleoli, Trnp1, heterochromatin, nuclear speckles, phase transition	TMF1-regulated nuclear protein 1 (Trnp1) has been shown to exert potent roles in neural development affecting neural stem cell self-renewal and brain folding, but its molecular function in the nucleus is still unknown. Here, we show that Trnp1 is a low complexity protein with the capacity to phase separate. Trnp1 interacts with factors located in several nuclear membrane-less organelles, the nucleolus, nuclear speckles, and condensed chromatin. Importantly, Trnp1 co-regulates the architecture and function of these nuclear compartments in vitro and in the developing brain in vivo. Deletion of a highly conserved region in the N-terminal intrinsic disordered region abolishes the capacity of Trnp1 to regulate nucleoli and heterochromatin size, proliferation, and M-phase length; decreases the capacity to phase separate; and abrogates most of Trnp1 protein interactions. Thus, we identified Trnp1 as a novel regulator of several nuclear membrane-less compartments, a function important to maintain cells in a self-renewing proliferative state.
PXD013276	32628111	PTEN and DNA-PK determine sensitivity and recovery in response to WEE1 inhibition in human breast cancer. 	Proteome characterization of Breast Cancer Cell lines	Breast cancer, cell lines	Inhibition of WEE1 kinase by AZD1775 has shown promising results in clinical cancer trials, but markers predicting AZD1775 response are lacking. Here we analysed AZD1775 response in a panel of human breast cancer (BC) cell lines by global proteome/transcriptome profiling and identified two groups of basal-like BC (BLBCs): 'PTEN low' BLBCs were highly sensitive to AZD1775 and failed to recover following removal of AZD1775, while 'PTEN high' BLBCs recovered. AZD1775 induced phosphorylation of DNA-PK, protecting cells from replication-associated DNA damage and promoting cellular recovery. Deletion of DNA-PK or PTEN, or inhibition of DNA-PK sensitized recovering BLBCs to AZD1775 by abrogating replication arrest, allowing replication despite DNA damage. This was linked to reduced CHK1 activation, increased cyclin E levels and apoptosis. In conclusion, we identified PTEN and DNA-PK as essential regulators of replication checkpoint arrest in response to AZD1775 and defined PTEN as a promising biomarker for efficient WEE1 cancer therapy.
PXD016898	32628487	Laminin Subunit Alpha-4 and Osteopontin Are Glioblastoma-Selective Secreted Proteins That Are Increased in the Cerebrospinal Fluid of Glioblastoma Patients. 	GBM cell line secretome analysis	GBM, SWATH-MS, secretome	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive brain tumor in adults. The purpose of the present study was to identify GBM cell-selective secreted proteins by analyzing conditioned media (CM) from GBM, breast, and colon cancer cell lines using sequential window acquisition of all theoretical spectra-mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) and targeted proteomics. We identified 2371 proteins in the CM from GBM and the other cancer cell lines. Among the proteins identified, 15 showed significantly higher expression in the CM from GBM cell lines than in those from other cancer cell lines. These GBM-selective secreted proteins were further quantified in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with GBM. Laminin subunit alpha-4 (LAMA4) and osteopontin (OPN) had increased expression levels in the CSF from GBM patients compared to those from non-brain tumor patients. In addition, the areas under the curves in a receiver operating characteristic analysis of LAMA4 and OPN were greater than 0.9, allowing for discrimination of GBM patients from non-brain tumor patients. The CSF levels of LAMA4 and OPN were also significantly correlated with the GBM tumor volume. These results suggest that LAMA4 and OPN are secreted from GBM cells into the CSF and appear to be candidates as diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets for GBM.
PXD017321	32628831	Proteomics Using Protease Alternatives to Trypsin Benefits from Sequential Digestion with Trypsin. 	Proteomics Using Proteases Alternative to Trypsin Benefits from Sequential Digestion with Trypsin	alternative proteases, sequential digest	Trypsin is the most used enzyme in proteomics. Nevertheless, proteases with complementary cleavage specificity have been applied in special circumstances. In this work, we analyzed the characteristics of five protease alternatives to trypsin for protein identification and sequence coverage when applied to S. pombe whole cell lysates. The specificity of the protease heavily impacted the number of proteins identified. Proteases with higher specificity led to the identification of more proteins than proteases with lower specificity. However, AspN, GluC, chymotrypsin, and proteinase K largely benefited from being paired with trypsin in sequential digestion, as had been shown by us for elastase before. In the most extreme case, predigesting with trypsin improves the number of identified proteins for proteinase K by 731%. Trypsin predigestion also improved the protein identifications of other proteases, AspN (+62%), GluC (+80%), and chymotrypsin (+21%). Interestingly, the sequential digest with trypsin and AspN yielded even a higher number of protein identifications than digesting with trypsin alone.
PXD016010	32629195	Top down proteomic analysis of gingival crevicular fluid in deciduous, exfoliating and permanent teeth in children. 	Top Down Proteomic analysis of Gingival Crevicular Fluid in deciduous, exfoliating and permanent teeth in children	top Down	Gingival Crevicular Fluid (GCF), a plasma-derived exudate present in the gingival crevice was collected from deciduous, exfoliating and permanent teeth from 20 children (60 samples) with the aim to characterize and quantify by a mass spectrometry based top-down proteomic approach, the peptide/proteins in the fluid and verify possible variations occurring during the exfoliating process. The results obtained confirmed the presence in GCF of alpha-Defensins 1-4, Thymosin beta4 and Thymosin beta10, as described in previous works and revealed the presence of other interesting peptides never described before in GCF such as specific fragments of alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-1-antichymotrypsin; fragments of Thymosin beta4 and Thymosin beta10; Fibrinopeptide A and its fragments and Fibrinopeptide B; S100A8 and S100A9, LVV Hemorphin-7 (hemoglobin chain beta fragment), as well as some other peptides deriving from alpha and beta subunits of hemoglobin. Statistical analysis evidenced different levels in 5 proteins/peptides in the three groups. Our study demonstrate that an in-depth analysis of a biological fluid like GCF, present in small amount, can provide useful information for the understanding of different biological processes like teeth eruption. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD016010 and PXD016049. SIGNIFICANCE: GCF due to his site-specific nature has a great potential in containing factors that are specific for action at a given site and might have diagnostic value to detect qualitative and quantitative variations of proteins/peptides composition linked to physiological or pathological conditions.
PXD016213	32629381	Impact of feeding and stirring regimes on the internal stratification of microbial communities in the fermenter of anaerobic digestion plants. 	No evidence for major spacial differences within the microbial communities  in anaerobic digestion plants under different feeding and stirring regimes	TRFLP, anaerobic digestion, biogas, metaproteomics, microbial communities, stirring	In anaerobic digestion plants (ADs), homogenization of the feed, fermenter content and microbial communities is crucial for efficient and robust biogas production. However, mixing also requires a significant amount of energy. For an 850 m(3) agricultural AD equipped with eight sampling ports, we investigated whether different feeding and stirring regimes enable a sufficient homogenization of the microbial community using metaproteomics and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) analysis. Systematic comparison of samples taken at the top and the bottom as well as at the rim and the center of the AD using scatter plots and students t-test revealed only a small number of differences in metaproteins, taxonomies and biological processes. Obviously, the applied stirring and feeding conditions were sufficient to largely homogenize the content of the AD.
PXD018693	32630016	An Economic Dilemma Between Molecular Weapon Systems May Explain an Arachno-atypical Venom in Wasp Spiders (Argiope bruennichi). 	Agriope Proteins from 2D-Gel and LC-ESI	2-D Gelelectrophoresis, LC-ESI-MS, MALDI-TOF MS	Spiders use venom to subdue their prey, but little is known about the diversity of venoms in different spider families. Given the limited data available for orb-weaver spiders (Araneidae), we selected the wasp spider Argiope bruennichi for detailed analysis. Our strategy combined a transcriptomics pipeline based on multiple assemblies with a dual proteomics workflow involving parallel mass spectrometry techniques and electrophoretic profiling. We found that the remarkably simple venom of A. bruennichi has an atypical composition compared to other spider venoms, prominently featuring members of the cysteine-rich secretory protein, antigen 5 and pathogenesis-related protein 1 (CAP) superfamily and other, mostly high-molecular-weight proteins. We also detected a subset of potentially novel toxins similar to neuropeptides. We discuss the potential function of these proteins in the context of the unique hunting behavior of wasp spiders, which rely mostly on silk to trap their prey. We propose that the simplicity of the venom evolved to solve an economic dilemma between two competing yet metabolically expensive weapon systems. This study emphasizes the importance of cutting-edge methods to encompass the lineages of smaller venomous species that have yet to be characterized in detail, allowing us to understand the biology of their venom systems and to mine this prolific resource for translational research.
PXD017420	32630095	Isolation and Characterization of Extracellular Vesicles Secreted In Vitro by Porcine Microbiota. 	The proteome of extracellular vesicles secreted in vitro by porcine microbiota grown in complex beta-mannan	beta-mannan, extracellular vesicles, in vitro., microbiota	The secretion of extracellular vesicles, EVs, is a common process in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells for intercellular communication, survival, and pathogenesis. Previous studies have illustrated the presence of EVs in supernatants from pure cultures of bacteria, including Gram-positive and Gram-negative glycan-degrading gut commensals. However, the isolation and characterization of EVs secreted by a complex microbial community have not been clearly reported. In a recent paper, we showed that wood-derived, complex beta-mannan, which shares a structural similarity with conventional dietary fibers, can be used to modulate the porcine gut microbiota composition and activity. In this paper, we investigated the production, size, composition, and proteome of EVs secreted by pig fecal microbiota after 24 h enrichment on complex beta-mannan. Using transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis, we identified EVs with an average size of 165 nm. We utilized mass spectrometry-based metaproteomic profiling of EV proteins against a database of 355 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from the porcine colon and thereby identified 303 proteins. For EVs isolated from the culture grown on beta-mannan, most proteins mapped to two MAGs, MAG53 and MAG272, belonging to the orders Clostridiales and Bacilli, respectively. Furthermore, the MAG with the third-most-detected protein was MAG 343, belonging to the order Enterobacteriales. The most abundant proteins detected in the beta-mannan EVs proteome were involved in translation, energy production, amino acid, and carbohydrate transport, as well as metabolism. Overall, this proof-of-concept study demonstrates the successful isolation of EVs released from a complex microbial community; furthermore, the protein content of the EVs reflects the response of specific microbes to the available carbohydrate source.
PXD018511	32630776	Proteomic Profiling of Emiliania huxleyi Using a Three-Dimensional Separation Method Combined with Tandem Mass Spectrometry. 	Proteomic profiling of Emiliania huxleyi	Emiliania huxleyi, Proteomic profiling, Q Exactive, RPLC, SCX	Emiliania huxleyi is one of the most abundant marine planktons, and it has a crucial feature in the carbon cycle. However, proteomic analyses of Emiliania huxleyi have not been done extensively. In this study, a three-dimensional liquid chromatography (3D-LC) system consisting of strong cation exchange, high- and low-pH reversed-phase liquid chromatography was established for in-depth proteomic profiling of Emiliania huxleyi. From tryptic proteome digest, 70 fractions were generated and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. In total, more than 84,000 unique peptides and 10,000 proteins groups were identified with a false discovery rate of <=0.01. The physicochemical properties of the identified peptides were evaluated. Using ClueGO, approximately 700 gene ontology terms and 15 pathways were defined from the identified protein groups with p-value <=0.05, covering a wide range of biological processes, cellular components, and molecular functions. Many biological processes associated with CO2 fixation, photosynthesis, biosynthesis, and metabolic process were identified. Various molecular functions relating to protein binding and enzyme activities were also found. The 3D-LC strategy is a powerful approach for comparative proteomic studies on Emiliania huxleyi to reveal changes in its protein level and related mechanism.
PXD015599	32632184	Identification of targets of AMPylating Fic enzymes by co-substrate-mediated covalent capture. 	Identification of Bona Fide Targets of AMPylating Fic-enzymes by Substrate Mediated Covalent Capture	AMPylation, Fic enzymes, Host-pathogen interactions, Post-translational modifications	Various pathogenic bacteria use post-translational modifications to manipulate the central components of host cell functions. Many of the enzymes released by these bacteria belong to the large Fic family, which modify targets with nucleotide monophosphates. The lack of a generic method for identifying the cellular targets of Fic family enzymes hinders investigation of their role and the effect of the post-translational modification. Here, we establish an approach that uses reactive co-substrate-linked enzymes for proteome profiling. We combine synthetic thiol-reactive nucleotide derivatives with recombinantly produced Fic enzymes containing strategically placed cysteines in their active sites to yield reactive binary probes for covalent substrate capture. The binary complexes capture their targets from cell lysates and permit subsequent identification. Furthermore, we determined the structures of low-affinity ternary enzyme-nucleotide-substrate complexes by applying a covalent-linking strategy. This approach thus allows target identification of the Fic enzymes from both bacteria and eukarya.
PXD010479	32632294	Architecture and functional dynamics of the pentafunctional AROM complex. 	Architecture and structural dynamics of the AROM complex	Chemical cross-linking, DSS, hybrid structural biology, structural proteomics	The AROM complex is a multifunctional metabolic machine with ten enzymatic domains catalyzing the five central steps of the shikimate pathway in fungi and protists. We determined its crystal structure and catalytic behavior, and elucidated its conformational space using a combination of experimental and computational approaches. We derived this space in an elementary approach, exploiting an abundance of conformational information from its monofunctional homologs in the Protein Data Bank. It demonstrates how AROM is optimized for spatial compactness while allowing for unrestricted conformational transitions and a decoupled functioning of its individual enzymatic entities. With this architecture, AROM poses a tractable test case for the effects of active site proximity on the efficiency of both natural metabolic systems and biotechnological pathway optimization approaches. We show that a mere colocalization of enzymes is not sufficient to yield a detectable improvement of metabolic throughput.
PXD017500	32632500	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of peripheral blood serum in piglets infected with Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae. 	APP infected and healthy Pig serum LC-MSMS	Pig, serum	Porcine pleuropneumonia caused by Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae (APP) is a swine respiratory disease with an important impact around the world either as a single infection or part of the porcine respiratory disease complex. The data of interaction between hosts and pathogens has becoming more crucial for exploration of the mechanism. However, up to now, comparatively little information is available on the systemic and dynamic changes that occur in pig serum in response to APP infection. This study used iTRAQ to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in pig serum in response to APP infection. Compared with the APP un-infected group (S0),there were 137 up-regulated and 68 down-regulated proteins at 24 h (S24), and 81 up-regulated and 107 down-regulated proteins at 120 h (S120). At 24 h, the immune response was not significantly enriched, but cell adhesion, cytosol, Golgi apparatus, GTP and ATP binding and regulation of cell cycle were extremely active, implying host preparation of immune response starting. Subsequently, innate immune response, negative regulation of apoptotic process, immunological synapse, adaptive immune response, the regulation of inflammatory response, positive regulation of T cell proliferation were more enhanced at 120 h then that of 24 h, representing innate immunity transferring to the adaptive, while endocytosis, cell adhesion and platelet aggregation showed obvious decline. The pathways of T cell receptor signaling pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, complement and coagulation cascades, leukocyte transendothelial migration were active remarkably during all infection period, and more pathways could connect to form innate immune defense networks. Surprisingly, the pathways like amoebiasis, rheumatoid arthritis and malaria had been found up-regulated. As a conclusion, APP could delay host inflammatory response to the infection at early stage, and induced innate immunity to convert from adhesion, interaction into complement activation, proteasome digestion, bacterial invasion at later stage. This would increase our understanding of the porcine distinct response to APP infection.
PXD016205	32633465	Dual lysine and N-terminal acetyltransferases reveal the complexity underpinning protein acetylation. 	Global acetylation profiling for multiple Arabidopsis thaliana plastid N-terminal acetyltransferases	GAP test, N-acetylome, N-terminal acetylation, SILProNAQ, acetyltransferase, quantitative proteomics	Protein acetylation is a highly frequent protein modification. However, comparatively little is known about its enzymatic machinery. N-alpha-acetylation (NTA) and epsilon-lysine acetylation (KA) are known to be catalyzed by distinct families of enzymes (NATs and KATs, respectively), although the possibility that the same GCN5-related N-acetyltransferase (GNAT) can perform both functions has been debated. Here, we discovered a new family of plastid-localized GNATs, which possess a dual specificity. All characterized GNAT family members display a number of unique features. Quantitative mass spectrometry analyses revealed that these enzymes exhibit both distinct KA and relaxed NTA specificities. Furthermore, inactivation of GNAT2 leads to significant NTA or KA decreases of several plastid proteins, while proteins of other compartments were unaffected. The data indicate that these enzymes have specific protein targets and likely display partly redundant selectivity, increasing the robustness of the acetylation process in vivo. In summary, this study revealed a new layer of complexity in the machinery controlling this prevalent modification and suggests that other eukaryotic GNATs may also possess these previously underappreciated broader enzymatic activities.
PXD011289	32634123	Microdissected pancreatic cancer proteomes reveal tumor heterogeneity and therapeutic targets. 	Stromal and epithelial proteome landscapes of pancreatic cancer predict poor prognosis and identify therapeutic options	Label-free, Laser capture microdissection, pancreatic cancer, prognosis, stroma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by a relative paucity of cancer cells that are surrounded by an abundance of nontumor cells and extracellular matrix, known as stroma. The interaction between stroma and cancer cells contributes to poor outcome, but how proteins from these individual compartments drive aggressive tumor behavior is not known. Here, we report the proteomic analysis of laser-capture microdissected (LCM) PDAC samples. We isolated stroma, tumor, and bulk samples from a cohort with long- and short-term survivors. Compartment-specific proteins were measured by mass spectrometry, yielding what we believe to be the largest PDAC proteome landscape to date. These analyses revealed that, in bulk analysis, tumor-derived proteins were typically masked and that LCM was required to reveal biology and prognostic markers. We validated tumor CALB2 and stromal COL11A1 expression as compartment-specific prognostic markers. We identified and functionally addressed the contributions of the tumor cell receptor EPHA2 to tumor cell viability and motility, underscoring the value of compartment-specific protein analysis in PDAC.
PXD017092	32634128	C5a impairs phagosomal maturation in the neutrophil through phosphoproteomic remodeling. 	Complement C5a impairs phagosomal maturation in the neutrophil through phosphoproteomic remodelling.	Complement system proteins, Critical care, Neutrophils, Phosphoproteome, Staphylococcus aureus	Critical illness is accompanied by the release of large amounts of the anaphylotoxin, C5a. C5a suppresses antimicrobial functions of neutrophils which is associated with adverse outcomes. The signaling pathways that mediate C5a-induced neutrophil dysfunction are incompletely understood. Healthy donor neutrophils exposed to purified C5a demonstrated a prolonged defect (7 hours) in phagocytosis of Staphylococcus aureus. Phosphoproteomic profiling of 2712 phosphoproteins identified persistent C5a signaling and selective impairment of phagosomal protein phosphorylation on exposure to S. aureus. Notable proteins included early endosomal marker ZFYVE16 and V-ATPase proton channel component ATPV1G1. An assay of phagosomal acidification demonstrated C5a-induced impairment of phagosomal acidification, which was recapitulated in neutrophils from critically ill patients. Examination of the C5a-impaired protein phosphorylation indicated a role for the PI3K VPS34 in phagosomal maturation. Inhibition of VPS34 impaired neutrophil phagosomal acidification and killing of S. aureus. This study provides a phosphoproteomic assessment of human neutrophil signaling in response to S. aureus and its disruption by C5a, identifying a defect in phagosomal maturation and mechanisms of immune failure in critical illness.
PXD018044	32636248	Epitope Shaving Promotes Fungal Immune Evasion. 	Epitope shaving and fungal immune evasion - culture supernatants	Candida albicans, secretome	The cell wall provides a major physical interface between fungal pathogens and their mammalian host. This extracellular armor is critical for fungal cell homeostasis and survival. Fungus-specific cell wall moieties, such as beta-1,3-glucan, are recognized as pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that activate immune-mediated clearance mechanisms. We have reported that the opportunistic human fungal pathogen Candida albicans masks beta-1,3-glucan following exposure to lactate, hypoxia, or iron depletion. However, the precise mechanism(s) by which C. albicans masks beta-1,3-glucan has remained obscure. Here, we identify a secreted exoglucanase, Xog1, that is induced in response to lactate or hypoxia. Xog1 functions downstream of the lactate-induced beta-glucan "masking" pathway to promote beta-1,3-glucan "shaving." Inactivation of XOG1 blocks most but not all beta-1,3-glucan masking in response to lactate, suggesting that other activities contribute to this phenomenon. Nevertheless, XOG1 deletion attenuates the lactate-induced reductions in phagocytosis and cytokine stimulation normally observed for wild-type cells. We also demonstrate that the pharmacological inhibition of exoglucanases undermines beta-glucan shaving, enhances the immune visibility of the fungus, and attenuates its virulence. Our study establishes a new mechanism underlying environmentally induced PAMP remodeling that can be manipulated pharmacologically to influence immune recognition and infection outcomes.IMPORTANCE The immune system plays a critical role in protecting us against potentially fatal fungal infections. However, some fungal pathogens have evolved evasion strategies that reduce the efficacy of our immune defenses. Previously, we reported that the fungal pathogen Candida albicans exploits specific host-derived signals (such as lactate and hypoxia) to trigger an immune evasion strategy that involves reducing the exposure of beta-glucan at its cell surface. Here, we show that this phenomenon is mediated by the induction of a major secreted exoglucanase (Xog1) by the fungus in response to these host signals. Inactivating XOG1-mediated "shaving" of cell surface-exposed beta-glucan enhances immune responses against the fungus. Furthermore, inhibiting exoglucanase activity pharmacologically attenuates C. albicans virulence. In addition to revealing the mechanism underlying a key immune evasion strategy in a major fungal pathogen of humans, our work highlights the potential therapeutic value of drugs that block fungal immune evasion.
PXD012783	32636389	Systems biology of acidophile biofilms for efficient metal extraction. 	Sysmetex proteome data for Leptospirillum ferriphilum planktonic growth	MS2, biomining, planktonic, sysmetex	Society's demand for metals is ever increasing while stocks of high-grade minerals are being depleted. Biomining, for example of chalcopyrite for copper recovery, is a more sustainable biotechnological process that exploits the capacity of acidophilic microbes to catalyze solid metal sulfide dissolution to soluble metal sulfates. A key early stage in biomining is cell attachment and biofilm formation on the mineral surface that results in elevated mineral oxidation rates. Industrial biomining of chalcopyrite is typically carried out in large scale heaps that suffer from the downsides of slow and poor metal recoveries. In an effort to mitigate these drawbacks, this study investigated planktonic and biofilm cells of acidophilic (optimal growth pH < 3) biomining bacteria. RNA and proteins were extracted, and high throughput "omics" performed from a total of 80 biomining experiments. In addition, micrographs of biofilm formation on the chalcopyrite mineral surface over time were generated from eight separate experiments. The dataset generated in this project will be of great use to microbiologists, biotechnologists, and industrial researchers.
PXD018851	32637811	CCPRD: A Novel Analytical Framework for the Comprehensive Proteomic Reference Database Construction of NonModel Organisms. 	CCPRD: A novel analytical framework for comprehensive proteomic reference database construction of non-model organisms	CCPRD, myxozoans, nematocysts, protein identification, reference database	Protein reference databases are a critical part of producing efficient proteomic analyses. However, the method for constructing clean, efficient, and comprehensive protein reference databases of nonmodel organisms is lacking. Existing methods either do not have contamination control procedures, or these methods rely on a three-frame and/or six-frame translation that sharply increases the search space and the need for computational resources. Herein, we propose a framework for constructing a customized comprehensive proteomic reference database (CCPRD) from draft genomes and deep sequencing transcriptomes. Its effectiveness is demonstrated by incorporating the proteomes of nematocysts from endoparasitic cnidarian: myxozoans. By applying customized contamination removal procedures, contaminations in omic data were successfully identified and removed. This is an effective method that does not result in overdecontamination. This can be shown by comparing the CCPRD MS results with an artificially contaminated database and another database with removed contaminations in genomes and transcriptomes added back. CCPRD outperformed traditional frame-based methods by identifying 35.2-50.7% more peptides and 35.8-43.8% more proteins, with a maximum of 84.6% in size reduction. A BUSCO analysis showed that the CCPRD maintained a relatively high level of completeness compared to traditional methods. These results confirm the superiority of the CCPRD over existing methods in peptide and protein identification numbers, database size, and completeness. By providing a general framework for generating the reference database, the CCPRD, which does not need a high-quality genome, can potentially be applied to nonmodel organisms and significantly contribute to proteomic research.
PXD015494	32637820	Myelin Basic Protein Phospholipid Complexation Likely Competes with Deimination in Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis Mouse Model. 	Myelin basic protein phospholipid complexation likely competes with deimination in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis mouse model	LC-MS, MBP	Multiple sclerosis has complex pathogenesis encompassing a variety of components (immunologic, genetic, and environmental). The autoimmunogenicity against the host's myelin basic protein is a major contributor. An increase in myelin basic protein deimination (a post-translational modification) and a change in phospholipid composition have been associated with multiple sclerosis. The interaction of myelin basic protein with phospholipids in the myelin membrane is an important contributor to the stability and maintenance of proper myelin sheath function. The study of this aspect of multiple sclerosis is an area that has yet to be fully explored and that the present study seeks to understand. Several biochemical methods, a capillary electrophoresis coupled system and mass spectrometry, were used in this study. These methods identified four specific phospholipids complexing with myelin basic protein. We show that lysophosphatidylcholine 18:1 provides a robust competitive effect against hyper-deimination. Our data suggest that lysophosphatidylcholine 18:1 has a different biochemical behavior when compared to other phospholipids and lysophosphatidylcholines 14:0, 16:0, and 18:0.
PXD018626	32639142	Antibody-Free Targeted Proteomics Assay for Absolute Measurement of alpha-Tubulin Acetylation. 	Antibody-free targeted proteomics assay for absolute measurement of alpha-tubulin acetylation	alpha-tubulin acetylation	Acetylation of alpha-tubulin at conserved lysine 40 (K40) amino acid residue regulates microtubule dynamics and controls a wide range of cellular activities. Dysregulated microtubule dynamics characterized by differential alpha-tubulin acetylation is a hallmark of cancer, neurodegeneration, and other complex disorders. Hence, accurate quantitation of alpha-tubulin acetylation is required in human disease and animal model studies. We developed a novel antibody-free proteomics assay to measure alpha-tubulin acetylation targeting protease AspN-generated peptides harboring K40 site. Using the synthetic unmodified and acetylated stable isotope labeled peptides DKTIGGG and DKTIGGGD, we demonstrate assay linearity across 4 log magnitude and reproducibility of <10% coefficient of variation. The assay accuracy was validated by titration of 10-80% mixture of acetylated/nonacetylated alpha-tubulin peptides in the background of human olfactory neurosphere-derived stem (ONS) cell matrix. Furthermore, in agreement with antibody-based high content microscopy analysis, the targeted proteomics assay reported an induction of alpha-tubulin K40 acetylation upon Trichostatin A stimulation of ONS cells. Independently, we found 35.99% and 16.11% alpha-tubulin acetylation for mouse spinal cord and brain homogenate tissue, respectively, as measured by our assay. In conclusion, this simple, antibody-free proteomics assay enables quantitation of alpha-tubulin acetylation, and is applicable across various fields of biology and medicine.
PXD017107	32639540	Mutations in the exocyst component EXOC2 cause severe defects in human brain development. 	Mutations in the exocyst component EXOC2 (Sec5) cause severe defects in human brain development	EXOC2, TMT6plex, fibroblasts	The exocyst, an octameric protein complex, is an essential component of the membrane transport machinery required for tethering and fusion of vesicles at the plasma membrane. We report pathogenic variants in an exocyst subunit, EXOC2 (Sec5). Affected individuals have severe developmental delay, dysmorphism, and brain abnormalities; variability associated with epilepsy; and poor motor skills. Family 1 had two offspring with a homozygous truncating variant in EXOC2 that leads to nonsense-mediated decay of EXOC2 transcript, a severe reduction in exocytosis and vesicle fusion, and undetectable levels of EXOC2 protein. The patient from Family 2 had a milder clinical phenotype and reduced exocytosis. Cells from both patients showed defective Arl13b localization to the primary cilium. The discovery of mutations that partially disable exocyst function provides valuable insight into this essential protein complex in neural development. Since EXOC2 and other exocyst complex subunits are critical to neuronal function, our findings suggest that EXOC2 variants are the cause of the patients' neurological disorders.
PXD013040	32639981	Visualisation tools for dependent peptide searches to support the exploration of in vitro protein modifications. 	Model data for the evaluation of dependent-peptide visualisation tools	Bos taurus, Dependent peptides, PTMs	Dependent peptide searching is a method for discovering covalently-modified peptides-and therefore proteins-in mass-spectrometry-based proteomics experiments. Being more permissive than standard search methods, it has the potential to discover novel modifications (e.g., post-translational modifications occurring in vivo, or modifications introduced in vitro). However, few studies have explored dependent peptide search results in an untargeted way. In the present study, we sought to evaluate dependent peptide searching as a means of characterising proteins that have been modified in vitro. We generated a model data set by analysing N-ethylmaleimide-treated bovine serum albumin, and performed dependent peptide searches using the popular MaxQuant software. To facilitate interpretation of the search results (hundreds of dependent peptides), we developed a series of visualisation tools (R scripts). We used the tools to assess the diversity of putative modifications in the albumin, and to pinpoint hypothesised modifications. We went on to explore the tools' generality via analyses of public data from studies of rat and human proteomes. Of 19 expected sites of modification (one in rat cofilin-1 and 18 across six different human plasma proteins), eight were found and correctly localised. Apparently, some sites went undetected because chemical enrichment had depleted necessary analytes (potential 'base' peptides). Our results demonstrate (i) the ability of the tools to provide accurate and informative visualisations, and (ii) the usefulness of dependent peptide searching for characterising in vitro protein modifications. Our model data are available via PRIDE/ProteomeXchange (accession number PXD013040).
PXD018060	32640994	Proteomic analysis of Rickettsia akari proposes a 44 kDa-OMP as a potential biomarker for Rickettsialpox diagnosis. 	Rickettsia akari: the proteome revealed a 44kDa-OMP as novel biomarker for Rickettsialpox	Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry, Rickettsia akari, outer membrane proteins	BACKGROUND: Rickettsialpox is a febrile illness caused by the mite-borne pathogen Rickettsia akari. Several cases of this disease are reported worldwide annually. Nevertheless, the relationship between the immunogenicity of R. akari and disease development is still poorly understood. Thus, misdiagnosis is frequent. Our study is aiming to identify immunogenic proteins that may improve disease recognition and enhance subsequent treatment. To achieve this goal, two proteomics methodologies were applied, followed by immunoblot confirmation. RESULTS: Three hundred and sixteen unique proteins were identified in the whole-cell extract of R. akari. The most represented protein groups were found to be those involved in translation, post-translational modifications, energy production, and cell wall development. A significant number of proteins belonged to amino acid transport and intracellular trafficking. Also, some proteins affecting the virulence were detected. In silico analysis of membrane enriched proteins revealed 25 putative outer membrane proteins containing beta-barrel structure and 11 proteins having a secretion signal peptide sequence. Using rabbit and human sera, various immunoreactive proteins were identified from which the 44 kDa uncharacterized protein (A8GP63) has demonstrated a unique detection capability. It positively distinguished the sera of patients with Rickettsialpox from other rickettsiae positive human sera. CONCLUSION: Our proteomic analysis certainly contributed to the lack of knowledge of R. akari pathogenesis. The result obtained may also serve as a guideline for a more accurate diagnosis of rickettsial diseases. The identified 44 kDa uncharacterized protein can be certainly used as a unique marker of rickettsialpox or as a target molecule for the development of more effective treatment.
PXD015736	32641118	Optimized method for extraction of exosomes from human primary muscle cells. 	Proteomic Analysis of Myotube-Secreted Exosomes of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Healthy subjects	ALS, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Exosome, Motor neuron disease, Muscle, Myotube	Skeletal muscle is increasingly considered an endocrine organ secreting myokines and extracellular vesicles (exosomes and microvesicles), which can affect physiological changes with an impact on different pathological conditions, including regenerative processes, aging, and myopathies. Primary human myoblasts are an essential tool to study the muscle vesicle secretome. Since their differentiation in conditioned media does not induce any signs of cell death or cell stress, artefactual effects from those processes are unlikely. However, adult human primary myoblasts senesce in long-term tissue culture, so a major technical challenge is posed by the need to avoid artefactual effects resulting from pre-senescent changes. Since these cells should be studied within a strictly controlled pre-senescent division count (<21 divisions), and yields of myoblasts per muscle biopsy are low, it is difficult or impossible to amplify sufficiently large cell numbers (some 250 x 10(6) myoblasts) to obtain sufficient conditioned medium for the standard ultracentrifugation approach to exosome isolation.Thus, an optimized strategy to extract and study secretory muscle vesicles is needed. In this study, conditions are optimized for the in vitro cultivation of human myoblasts, and the quality and yield of exosomes extracted using an ultracentrifugation protocol are compared with a modified polymer-based precipitation strategy combined with extra washing steps. Both vesicle extraction methods successfully enriched exosomes, as vesicles were positive for CD63, CD82, CD81, floated at identical density (1.15-1.27 g.ml(-1)), and exhibited similar size and cup-shape using electron microscopy and NanoSight tracking. However, the modified polymer-based precipitation was a more efficient strategy to extract exosomes, allowing their extraction in sufficient quantities to explore their content or to isolate a specific subpopulation, while requiring >30 times fewer differentiated myoblasts than what is required for the ultracentrifugation method. In addition, exosomes could still be integrated into recipient cells such as human myotubes or iPSC-derived motor neurons.Modified polymer-based precipitation combined with extra washing steps optimizes exosome yield from a lower number of differentiated myoblasts and less conditioned medium, avoiding senescence and allowing the execution of multiple experiments without exhausting the proliferative capacity of the myoblasts.
PXD017821	32641473	Novel Proteome Extraction Method Illustrates a Conserved Immunological Signature of MSI-H Colorectal Tumors. 	Novel Proteome Extraction Method Illustrate a Conserved Immunological Signature of MSI-H Colorectal Tumors	CRC, FFPE, Human Proteome Project, MSI-H, MSS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Using a simple, environment friendly proteome extraction (TOP), we were able to optimize the analysis of clinical samples. Using our TOP method we analyzed a clinical cohort of microsatellite stable (MSS) and unstable (MSI-H) colorectal carcinoma (CRC). We identified a tumor cell specific, STAT1-centered, immune signature expressed by the MSI-H tumor cells. We then showed that long, but not short, exposure to Interferon-gamma induces a similar signature in vitro We identified 10 different temporal protein expression patterns, classifying the Interferon-gamma protein temporal regulation in CRC. Our data sheds light on the changes that tumor cells undergo under long-term immunological pressure in vivo, the importance of STAT proteins in specific biological scenarios. The data generated could help find novel clinical biomarkers and therapeutic approaches.
PXD012607	32641697	Comparative transcriptomic and proteomic analyses provide insights into functional genes for hypoxic adaptation in embryos of Tibetan chickens. 	Comparative transcriptomic and proteomic analyses provide insights into functional genes for hypoxic adaptation in embryos of Tibetan chickens	CAM, Tibetan chicken, hypoxic adaption, transcriptome	The Tibetan chicken is a unique breed that has adapted to the high-altitude hypoxic conditions of the Tibetan plateau. A number of positively selected genes have been reported in these chickens; however, the mechanisms of gene expression for hypoxia adaptation are not fully understood. In the present study, eggs from Tibetan and Chahua chickens were incubated under hypoxic and normoxic conditions, and vascularization in the chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) of embryos was observed. We found that the vessel density index in the CAM of Tibetan chickens was lower than in Chahua chickens under hypoxia conditions. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of CAM tissues were performed in Tibetan and Chahua chicken embryos under hypoxic incubation using RNA-Seq and iTRAQ. We obtained 160 differentially expressed genes and 387 differentially expressed proteins that were mainly enriched in angiogenesis, vasculature development, blood vessel morphogenesis, blood circulation, renin-angiotensin system, and HIF-1 and VEGF signaling pathways. Twenty-six genes involved in angiogenesis and blood circulation, two genes involved in ion transport, and six genes that regulated energy metabolism were identified as candidate functional genes in regulating hypoxic adaptation of chicken embryos. This research provided insights into the molecular mechanism of hypoxia adaptation in Tibetan chickens.
PXD019894	32642643	Identification of seed storage proteins as the major constituents of the extra virgin olive oil proteome. 	Proteomics of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO)	Extra virgin olive oil (EVOO), Olea europaea, lipoxygenase, seed storage proteins (SSP)	Proteins are minor components of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO), but the nature of the olive oil proteome is still elusive. In this paper, we have uncovered the EVOO proteome for the first time. Seed storage proteins of globulin-type were identified as the most abundant proteins in EVOO, which also contains an active 13-lipoxygenase and several potential allergenic proteins, including the "panallergen" profilin. We validated our proteomic data by Western blotting and enzyme activity assays. Our data also demonstrated that the seed is the main source of proteins in EVOO, while the contribution of the pulp is uncertain and needs further verification. The impact of EVOO proteins on its stability and quality, and on human health is discussed.
PXD012791	32642662	The invasive proteome of glioblastoma revealed by laser-capture microdissection. 	Mapping the invasive network of glioblastoma by proteomics from laser-capture microdissected samples	Glioblastoma, quantitative proteomics, tumour cell invasion	BACKGROUND: Glioblastomas are heterogeneous tumors composed of a necrotic and tumor core and an invasive periphery. METHODS: Here, we performed a proteomics analysis of laser-capture micro-dissected glioblastoma core and invasive areas of patient-derived xenografts. RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis identified enriched proteins in central and invasive tumor areas. Novel markers of invasion were identified, the genes proteolipid protein 1 (PLP1) and Dynamin-1 (DNM1), which were subsequently validated in tumors and by functional assays. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our results identify new networks and molecules that may play an important role in glioblastoma development and may constitute potential novel therapeutic targets.
PXD018333	32642759	Alternative splicing of clathrin heavy chain contributes to the switch from coated pits to plaques. 	Validation of the expression of clathrin heavy chain muscle isoform including exon 31 at the protein level	CLTC exon 31, alternative splicing, clathrin coated-pits, clathrin heavy chain, clathrin plaques, differentiation, muscle	Clathrin function directly derives from its coat structure, and while endocytosis is mediated by clathrin-coated pits, large plaques contribute to cell adhesion. Here, we show that the alternative splicing of a single exon of the clathrin heavy chain gene (CLTC exon 31) helps determine the clathrin coat organization. Direct genetic control was demonstrated by forced CLTC exon 31 skipping in muscle cells that reverses the plasma membrane content from clathrin plaques to pits and by promoting exon inclusion that stimulated flat plaque assembly. Interestingly, mis-splicing of CLTC exon 31 found in the severe congenital form of myotonic dystrophy was associated with reduced plaques in patient myotubes. Moreover, forced exclusion of this exon in WT mice muscle induced structural disorganization and reduced force, highlighting the contribution of this splicing event for the maintenance of tissue homeostasis. This genetic control on clathrin assembly should influence the way we consider how plasticity in clathrin-coated structures is involved in muscle development and maintenance.
PXD019926	32643919	Expanding the Depth and Sensitivity of Cross-Link Identification by Differential Ion Mobility Using High-Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry. 	Expanding the depth and sensitivity of cross-link identification by differential ion mobility using FAIMS	CX-MS, Cross-linking mass spectrometry, FAIMS, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, XL-MS, benchmarking, machine learning, whole proteome	In cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS), the depth and sensitivity of cross-link detection is often limited by the low abundance of cross-links compared to non-cross-linked peptides in the digestion mixture. To improve the identification efficiency of cross-links, here, we present a gas-phase separation strategy using high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) coupled to the Orbitrap Tribrid mass spectrometers. By enabling an additional peptide separation step in the gas phase using the FAIMS device, we increase the number of cross-link identifications by 22% for a medium complex sample and 59% for strong cation exchange-fractionated HEK293T cell lysate in XL-MS experiments using disuccinimidyl sulfoxide (DSSO) cross-linker. When disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS) cross-linker is in use, we are able to boost cross-link identification by 89% for the medium and 100% for the high complex sample compared to the analyses without FAIMS. Furthermore, we show that, for medium complex samples, FAIMS enables the collection of single-shot XL-MS data with a comparable depth to the corresponding sample fractionated by chromatography-based approaches. Altogether, we demonstrate FAIMS is highly beneficial for XL-MS studies by expanding the proteome coverage of cross-links while improving the efficiency and confidence of cross-link identification.
PXD018151	32644114	Deciphering and predicting CD4+ T cell immunodominance of influenza virus hemagglutinin. 	Deciphering and predicting CD4+ T cell immunodominance of Influenza virus hemagglutinin	EBV-B, Influenza, MHC-II, antigen presentation, hemagglutinin, moDC, peptidomics	The importance of CD4+ T helper (Th) cells is well appreciated in view of their essential role in the elicitation of antibody and cytotoxic T cell responses. However, the mechanisms that determine the selection of immunodominant epitopes within complex protein antigens remain elusive. Here, we used ex vivo stimulation of memory T cells and screening of naive and memory T cell libraries, combined with T cell cloning and TCR sequencing, to dissect the human naive and memory CD4+ T cell repertoire against the influenza pandemic H1 hemagglutinin (H1-HA). We found that naive CD4+ T cells have a broad repertoire, being able to recognize naturally processed as well as cryptic peptides spanning the whole H1-HA sequence. In contrast, memory Th cells were primarily directed against just a few immunodominant peptides that were readily detected by mass spectrometry-based MHC-II peptidomics and predicted by structural accessibility analysis. Collectively, these findings reveal the presence of a broad repertoire of naive T cells specific for cryptic H1-HA peptides and demonstrate that antigen processing represents a major constraint determining immunodominance.
PXD019113	32645325	The Global Phosphorylation Landscape of SARS-CoV-2 Infection. 	The Global Phosphorylation Landscape of SARS-CoV-2 Infection	Benchmarking, COVID-19, Covid-19, Machine learning, ProteomeXchange project tag: Deep learning, SARS-CoV-2, Sars-cov-2, Vero-E6, coronavirus, phosphoproteomics	The causative agent of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has infected millions and killed hundreds of thousands of people worldwide, highlighting an urgent need to develop antiviral therapies. Here we present a quantitative mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics survey of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Vero E6 cells, revealing dramatic rewiring of phosphorylation on host and viral proteins. SARS-CoV-2 infection promoted casein kinase II (CK2) and p38 MAPK activation, production of diverse cytokines, and shutdown of mitotic kinases, resulting in cell cycle arrest. Infection also stimulated a marked induction of CK2-containing filopodial protrusions possessing budding viral particles. Eighty-seven drugs and compounds were identified by mapping global phosphorylation profiles to dysregulated kinases and pathways. We found pharmacologic inhibition of the p38, CK2, CDK, AXL, and PIKFYVE kinases to possess antiviral efficacy, representing potential COVID-19 therapies.
PXD017868	32645368	Systematic Discovery of Short Linear Motifs Decodes Calcineurin Phosphatase Signaling. 	Systematic discovery of Short Linear Motifs decodes calcineurin phosphatase signaling	Calcium, Intrinsically Disordered Proteins (IDPs), Nuclear Pore Complex (NPC), Phosphatase, Short Linear Motifs (SLiMs), Signaling	Short linear motifs (SLiMs) drive dynamic protein-protein interactions essential for signaling, but sequence degeneracy and low binding affinities make them difficult to identify. We harnessed unbiased systematic approaches for SLiM discovery to elucidate the regulatory network of calcineurin (CN)/PP2B, the Ca(2+)-activated phosphatase that recognizes LxVP and PxIxIT motifs. In vitro proteome-wide detection of CN-binding peptides, in vivo SLiM-dependent proximity labeling, and in silico modeling of motif determinants uncovered unanticipated CN interactors, including NOTCH1, which we establish as a CN substrate. Unexpectedly, CN shows SLiM-dependent proximity to centrosomal and nuclear pore complex (NPC) proteins-structures where Ca(2+) signaling is largely uncharacterized. CN dephosphorylates human and yeast NPC proteins and promotes accumulation of a nuclear transport reporter, suggesting conserved NPC regulation by CN. The CN network assembled here provides a resource to investigate Ca(2+) and CN signaling and demonstrates synergy between experimental and computational methods, establishing a blueprint for examining SLiM-based networks.
PXD018422	32646969	Global discovery of bacterial RNA-binding proteins by RNase-sensitive gradient profiles reports a new FinO domain protein. 	Global discovery of bacterial RNA-binding proteins by RNase-sensitive gradient profiles reports a new FinO domain protein	CsrA, FabA, GradR, Hfq, ProQ, RBP, Salmonella, YafB	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play important roles in bacterial gene expression and physiology but their true number and functional scope remain little understood even in model microbes. To advance global RBP discovery in bacteria, we here establish glycerol gradient sedimentation with RNase treatment and mass spectrometry (GradR). Applied to Salmonella enterica, GradR confirms many known RBPs such as CsrA, Hfq, and ProQ by their RNase-sensitive sedimentation profiles, and discovers the FopA protein as a new member of the emerging family of FinO/ProQ-like RBPs. FopA, encoded on resistance plasmid pCol1B9, primarily targets a small RNA associated with plasmid replication. The target suite of FopA dramatically differs from the related global RBP ProQ, revealing context-dependent selective RNA recognition by FinO-domain RBPs. Numerous other unexpected RNase-induced changes in gradient profiles suggest that cellular RNA helps to organize macromolecular complexes in bacteria. By enabling poly(A)-independent generic RBP discovery, GradR provides an important element in the quest to build a comprehensive catalog of microbial RBPs.
PXD015682	32647223	INTS10-INTS13-INTS14 form a functional module of Integrator that binds nucleic acids and the cleavage module. 	Characterization of Integrator module INTS10-INTS13-INTS14 and its connection to the cleavage module Part I	Chemical cross-linking, DSS, Integrator complex, structural proteomics	The Integrator complex processes 3'-ends of spliceosomal small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs). Furthermore, it regulates transcription of protein coding genes by terminating transcription after unstable pausing. The molecular basis for Integrator's functions remains obscure. Here, we show that INTS10, Asunder/INTS13 and INTS14 form a separable, functional Integrator module. The structure of INTS13-INTS14 reveals a strongly entwined complex with a unique chain interlink. Unexpected structural homology to the Ku70-Ku80 DNA repair complex suggests nucleic acid affinity. Indeed, the module displays affinity for DNA and RNA but prefers RNA hairpins. While the module plays an accessory role in snRNA maturation, it has a stronger influence on transcription termination after pausing. Asunder/INTS13 directly binds Integrator's cleavage module via a conserved C-terminal motif that is involved in snRNA processing and required for spermatogenesis. Collectively, our data establish INTS10-INTS13-INTS14 as a nucleic acid-binding module and suggest that it brings cleavage module and target transcripts into proximity.
PXD018041	32647375	STK11 (LKB1) missense somatic mutant isoforms promote tumor growth, motility and inflammation. 	Secretome analysis of human A549 Lung cancer cells harboring LKB1 mutations.	LKB1, Lung Cancer, Secretome	Elucidating the contribution of somatic mutations to cancer is essential for personalized medicine. STK11 (LKB1) appears to be inactivated in human cancer. However, somatic missense mutations also occur, and the role/s of these alterations to this disease remain unknown. Here, we investigated the contribution of four missense LKB1 somatic mutations in tumor biology. Three out of the four mutants lost their tumor suppressor capabilities and showed deficient kinase activity. The remaining mutant retained the enzymatic activity of wild type LKB1, but induced increased cell motility. Mechanistically, LKB1 mutants resulted in differential gene expression of genes encoding vesicle trafficking regulating molecules, adhesion molecules and cytokines. The differentially regulated genes correlated with protein networks identified through comparative secretome analysis. Notably, three mutant isoforms promoted tumor growth, and one induced inflammation-like features together with dysregulated levels of cytokines. These findings uncover oncogenic roles of LKB1 somatic mutations, and will aid in further understanding their contributions to cancer development and progression.
PXD020252	32649877	Integrative Proteomic Characterization of Human Lung Adenocarcinoma. 	Integrative proteomic characterization of human lung adenocarcinoma	LUAD, phosphoproteomics	Genomic studies of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) have advanced our understanding of the disease's biology and accelerated targeted therapy. However, the proteomic characteristics of LUAD remain poorly understood. We carried out a comprehensive proteomics analysis of 103 cases of LUAD in Chinese patients. Integrative analysis of proteome, phosphoproteome, transcriptome, and whole-exome sequencing data revealed cancer-associated characteristics, such as tumor-associated protein variants, distinct proteomics features, and clinical outcomes in patients at an early stage or with EGFR and TP53 mutations. Proteome-based stratification of LUAD revealed three subtypes (S-I, S-II, and S-III) related to different clinical and molecular features. Further, we nominated potential drug targets and validated the plasma protein level of HSP 90beta as a potential prognostic biomarker for LUAD in an independent cohort. Our integrative proteomics analysis enables a more comprehensive understanding of the molecular landscape of LUAD and offers an opportunity for more precise diagnosis and treatment.
PXD019776	32650423	Optimisation of Sporosori Purification and Protein Extraction Techniques for the Biotrophic Protozoan Plant Pathogen Spongospora subterranea. 	Optimisation of sporosori purification and protein extraction techniques for the biotrophic protozoan plant pathogen Spongospora subterranea	Ludox, S-Trap., Spongospora subterranea, density gradient centrifugation, sporosori	Spongospora subterranea is a soil-borne plant pathogen responsible for the economically significant root and powdery scab diseases of potato. However, the obligate biotrophic nature of S. subterranea has made the detailed study of the pathogen problematic. Here, we first compared the benefits of sporosori partial purification utilizing Ludox((R)) gradient centrifugation. We then undertook optimization efforts for protein isolation comparing the use of a urea buffer followed by single-pot solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3) and a sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) buffer followed by suspension-trapping (S-Trap). Label-free, quantitative proteomics was then used to evaluate the efficiency of the sporosori purification and the protein preparation methods. The purification protocol produced a highly purified suspension of S. subterranea sporosori without affecting the viability of the spores. The results indicated that the use of a combination of SDS and S-Trap for sample clean-up and digestion obtained a significantly higher number of identified proteins compared to using urea and SP3, with 218 and 652 proteins identified using the SP3 and S-Trap methods, respectively. The analysis of proteins by mass spectrometry showed that the number of identified proteins increased by approximately 40% after the purification of spores by Ludox((R)). These results suggested a potential use of the described spore purification and protein preparation methods for the proteomics study of obligate biotrophic pathogens such as S. subterranea.
PXD017232	32651226	Agonists of Orally Expressed TRP Channels Stimulate Salivary Secretion and Modify the Salivary Proteome. 	Agonists of orally expressed TRP channels stimulate salivary secretion and modify the salivary proteome	Cinnamaldehyde, Menthol, Nonivamide, Saliva, Transient Receptor Potential Channel Agonists	Natural compounds that can stimulate salivary secretion are of interest in developing treatments for xerostomia, the perception of a dry mouth, that affects between 10 and 30% of the adult and elderly population. Chemesthetic transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are expressed in the surface of the oral mucosa. The TRPV1 agonists capsaicin and piperine have been shown to increase salivary flow when introduced into the oral cavity but the sialogogic properties of other TRP channel agonists have not been investigated. In this study we have determined the influence of different TRP channel agonists on the flow and protein composition of saliva. Mouth rinsing with the TRPV1 agonist nonivamide or menthol, a TRPM8 agonist, increased whole mouth saliva (WMS) flow and total protein secretion compared with unstimulated saliva, the vehicle control mouth rinse or cinnamaldehyde, a TRPA1 agonist. Nonivamide also increased the flow of labial minor gland saliva but parotid saliva flow rate was not increased. The influence of TRP channel agonists on the composition and function of the salivary proteome was investigated using a multi-batch quantitative MS method novel to salivary proteomics. Inter-personal and inter-mouth rinse variation was observed in the secreted proteomes and, using a novel bioinformatics method, inter-day variation was identified with some of the mouth rinses. Significant changes in specific salivary proteins were identified after all mouth rinses. In the case of nonivamide, these changes were attributed to functional shifts in the WMS secreted, primarily the over representation of salivary and nonsalivary cystatins which was confirmed by immunoassay. This study provides new evidence of the impact of TRP channel agonists on the salivary proteome and the stimulation of salivary secretion by a TRPM8 channel agonist, which suggests that TRP channel agonists are potential candidates for developing treatments for sufferers of xerostomia.
PXD015284	32651227	Radiosensitization by Kinase Inhibition Revealed by Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Pancreatic Cancer Cells. 	Kinase inhibition sensitizes pancreatic cancer cells towards radiation	PDAC, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, machine learning, pancreatic cancer, phosphoproteomics	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most aggressive cancers and known for its extensive genetic heterogeneity, high therapeutic resistance, and strong variation in intrinsic radiosensitivity. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying radioresistance, we screened the phenotypic response of 38 PDAC cell lines to ionizing radiation. Subsequent phosphoproteomic analysis of two representative sensitive and resistant lines led to the reproducible identification of 7,800 proteins and 13,000 phosphorylation sites (p-sites). Approximately 700 p-sites on 400 proteins showed abundance changes after radiation in all cell lines regardless of their phenotypic sensitivity. Apart from recapitulating known radiation response phosphorylation markers such as on proteins involved in DNA damage repair, the analysis uncovered many novel members of a radiation-responsive signaling network that was apparent only at the level of protein phosphorylation. These regulated p-sites were enriched in potential ATM substrates and in vitro kinase assays corroborated 10 of these. Comparing the proteomes and phosphoproteomes of radiosensitive and -resistant cells pointed to additional tractable radioresistance mechanisms involving apoptotic proteins. For instance, elevated NADPH quinine oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) expression in radioresistant cells may aid in clearing harmful reactive oxygen species. Resistant cells also showed elevated phosphorylation levels of proteins involved in cytoskeleton organization including actin dynamics and focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activity and one resistant cell line showed a strong migration phenotype. Pharmacological inhibition of the kinases FAK by Defactinib and of CHEK1 by Rabusertib showed a statistically significant sensitization to radiation in radioresistant PDAC cells. Together, the presented data map a comprehensive molecular network of radiation-induced signaling, improves the understanding of radioresistance and provides avenues for developing radiotherapeutic strategies.
PXD018703	32651440	Dynamic palmitoylation events following T-cell receptor signaling. 	Dynamic Palmitoylation Events Following T-Cell Receptor Signaling	DHHC PATs, DHHC18, DHHC20, In vitro palmitoylation, LAT, Palmitome, Palmitoylation, S-acylation, T-Cell Activation, TCR Signaling, Ti-VAMP, VAMP7	Palmitoylation is the reversible addition of palmitate to cysteine via a thioester linkage. The reversible nature of this modification makes it a prime candidate as a mechanism for regulating signal transduction in T-cell receptor signaling. Following stimulation of the T-cell receptor we find a number of proteins are newly palmitoylated, including those involved in vesicle-mediated transport and Ras signal transduction. Among these stimulation-dependent palmitoylation targets are the v-SNARE VAMP7, important for docking of vesicular LAT during TCR signaling, and the largely undescribed palmitoyl acyltransferase DHHC18 that is expressed in two isoforms in T cells. Using our newly developed On-Plate Palmitoylation Assay (OPPA), we show DHHC18 is capable of palmitoylating VAMP7 at Cys183. Cellular imaging shows that the palmitoylation-deficient protein fails to be retained at the Golgi and to localize to the immune synapse upon T cell activation.
PXD018264	32652221	Multi-protease analysis of Pleistocene bone proteomes. 	Multi-protease analysis of Pleistocene bone proteomes	Bone, Neanderthals, Pleistocene, proteases	Ancient protein analysis is providing new insights into the evolutionary relationships between hominin fossils across the Pleistocene. Protein identification commonly relies on the proteolysis of a protein extract using a single protease, trypsin. As with modern proteome studies, alternative or additional proteases have the potential to increase both proteome size and protein sequence recovery. This could enhance the recovery of phylogenetic information from ancient proteomes. Here we identify 18 novel hominin bone specimens from the Kleine Feldhofer Grotte using MALDI-TOF MS peptide mass fingerprinting of collagen type I. Next, we use one of these hominin bone specimens and three Late Pleistocene Equidae specimens identified in a similar manner and present a comparison of the bone proteome size and protein sequence recovery obtained after using nanoLC-MS/MS and parallel proteolysis using six different proteases, including trypsin. We observe that the majority of the preserved bone proteome is inaccessible to trypsin. We also observe that for proteins recovered consistently across several proteases, protein sequence coverage can be increased significantly by combining peptide identifications from two or more proteases. Our results thereby demonstrate that the proteolysis of Pleistocene proteomes by several proteases has clear advantages when addressing evolutionary questions in palaeoproteomics. SIGNIFICANCE: Maximizing proteome and protein sequence recovery of ancient skeletal proteomes is important when analyzing unique hominin fossils. As with modern proteome studies, palaeoproteomic analysis of Pleistocene bone and dentine samples has almost exclusively used trypsin as its only protease, despite the demonstrated advantages of alternative proteases to increase proteome recovery in modern proteome studies. We demonstrate that Pleistocene bone proteomes can be significantly expanded by using additional proteases beside trypsin, and that this also improves sequence coverage of individual proteins. The use of several alternative proteases beside trypsin therefore has major benefits to maximize the phylogenetic information retrieved from ancient skeletal proteomes.
PXD017761	32652222	Novel biomarkers in cats with congestive heart failure due to primary cardiomyopathy. 	Serum proteomics in cats with cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure	Cat, TMT-based proteomics, cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure	The pathogenesis of feline cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure (CHF) requires further understanding. In this study, we assessed serum proteome change in feline CHF, aiming to identify novel biomarker for both research and clinical use. The study comprised 15 cats in CHF, 5 cats in preclinical cardiomyopathy and 15 cats as healthy controls. Serum proteome profiles were obtained by tandem mass tag labelling followed by mass spectrometry. Protein concentrations in CHF cats were compared with healthy controls. Western blot was performed for proteomic validation. Correlations were assessed between the altered proteins in CHF and clinical variables in cats with cardiomyopathy to evaluate protein-cardiac association. Bioinformatic analysis was employed to identify pathophysiological pathways involved in feline CHF. Sixteen serum proteins were significantly different between CHF and healthy control cats (P < .05). These included serine protease inhibitors, apolipoproteins and other proteins associated with inflammation and coagulation. Clinical parameters from cats with cardiomyopathy significantly correlated with the altered proteins (P < .05). Bioinformatic analysis identified 13 most relevant functional profiles in feline CHF, which mostly associated with extracellular matrix organization and metabolism. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017761. SIGNIFICANCE: Cardiomyopathies affect both cats and humans, and they can cause serious consequence such as congestive heart failure (CHF). To date, the pathophysiological mechanism of CHF is not fully understood. In this study, for the first time, we used a proteomic approach combined with bioinformatic analysis to evaluate serum protein change in cats with CHF. Results indicate systemic inflammation, coagulation protein changes, innate immunity and extracellular matrix remodeling are involved in feline CHF, which are largely comparable with findings in previous human studies. Our study provides new insights into CHF and cardiomyopathy in cats, and the identified novel biomarkers and pathophysiological pathways provide valuable information for future studies.
PXD016970	32653678	Compositional and immunogenic evaluation of fractionated wheat beers using mass spectrometry. 	Compositional and Immunogenic Evaluation of Fractionated Wheat Beers using Mass Spectrometry	Celiac disease, Fermentation, Gluten, Wheat beers	The safety and regulatory status of fermented products derived from gluten-containing grains for patients with celiac disease remains controversial. Bottom-up mass spectrometry (MS) has complemented immunoassays for the compositional and immunogenic analyses of wheat beers. However, uncharacterized proteolysis during brewing followed by the secondary digestion for MS has made the analysis and data interpretation complicated. In this study, the composition and immunogenic potential of seven commercially available wheat beers were evaluated using bottom-up MS with the aid of fractionation and a multi-step peptide search strategy to identify peptides generated by various types of proteolysis. Gluten-derived peptides accounted for approximately 50% and 20% of the total number of wheat-derived and barley-derived peptides, respectively, in the investigated beers. Although relatively large polypeptides cannot be thoroughly characterized using traditional bottom-up proteomics, up to 50% of peptides identified contained celiac-immunogenic motifs, and consumption of wheat beers would pose risks for celiac patients.
PXD020138	32654240	Unique organization of photosystem II supercomplexes and megacomplexes in Norway spruce. 	Unique organization of photosystem II supercomplexes and megacomplexes in Norway spruce.	Plant, complex, membrane, photosystem, spruce	Photosystem II (PSII) complexes are organized into large supercomplexes with variable amounts of light-harvesting proteins (Lhcb). A typical PSII supercomplex in plants is formed by four trimers of Lhcb proteins (LHCII trimers), which are bound to the PSII core dimer via monomeric antenna proteins. However, the architecture of PSII supercomplexes in Norway spruce[Picea abies (L.) Karst.] is different, most likely due to a lack of two Lhcb proteins, Lhcb6 and Lhcb3. Interestingly, the spruce PSII supercomplex shares similar structural features with its counterpart in the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii [Kouril et al. (2016) New Phytol. 210, 808-814]. Here we present a single-particle electron microscopy study of isolated PSII supercomplexes from Norway spruce that revealed binding of a variable amount of LHCII trimers to the PSII core dimer at positions that have never been observed in any other plant species so far. The largest spruce PSII supercomplex, which was found to bind eight LHCII trimers, is even larger than the current largest known PSII supercomplex from C. reinhardtii. We have also shown that the spruce PSII supercomplexes can form various types of PSII megacomplexes, which were also identified in intact grana membranes. Some of these large PSII supercomplexes and megacomplexes were identified also in Pinus sylvestris, another representative of the Pinaceae family. The structural variability and complexity of LHCII organization in Pinaceae seems to be related to the absence of Lhcb6 and Lhcb3 in this family, and may be beneficial for the optimization of light-harvesting under varying environmental conditions.
PXD018833	32655601	Overexpression of Sedoheptulose-1,7-Bisphosphatase Enhances Photosynthesis in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Has No Effect on the Abundance of Other Calvin-Benson Cycle Enzymes. 	Overexpression of sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphatase enhances photosynthesis in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and has no effect on the abundance of other Calvin-Benson cycle enzymes	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Modular cloning, Photosynthesis, QconCAT, Synthetic Biology, proteotypic peptide	The productivity of plants and microalgae needs to be increased to feed the growing world population and to promote the development of a low-carbon economy. This goal can be achieved by improving photosynthesis via genetic engineering. In this study, we have employed the Modular Cloning strategy to overexpress the Calvin-Benson cycle (CBC) enzyme sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphatase (SBP1) up to threefold in the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. The protein derived from the nuclear transgene represented ~0.3% of total cell protein. Photosynthetic rate and growth were significantly increased in SBP1-overexpressing lines under high-light and elevated CO2 conditions. Absolute quantification of the abundance of all other CBC enzymes by the QconCAT approach revealed no consistent differences between SBP1-overexpressing lines and the recipient strain. This analysis also revealed that the 11 CBC enzymes represent 11.9% of total cell protein in Chlamydomonas. Here, the range of concentrations of CBC enzymes turned out to be much larger than estimated earlier, with a 128-fold difference between the most abundant CBC protein (rbcL) and the least abundant (triose phosphate isomerase). Accordingly, the concentrations of the CBC intermediates are often but not always higher than the binding site concentrations of the enzymes for which they act as substrates. The enzymes with highest substrate to binding site ratios might represent good candidates for overexpression in subsequent engineering steps.
PXD020239	32657267	Ribosome collisions trigger cis-acting feedback inhibition of translation initiation. 	Ribosome collisions trigger cis-acting feedback inhibition of translation initiation	quality control, ribosome stalling	Translation of aberrant mRNAs can cause ribosomes to stall, leading to collisions with trailing ribosomes. Collided ribosomes are specifically recognised by ZNF598 to initiate protein and mRNA quality control pathways. Here we found using quantitative proteomics of collided ribosomes that EDF1 is a ZNF598-independent sensor of ribosome collisions. EDF1 stabilises GIGYF2 at collisions to inhibit translation initiation in cis via 4EHP. The GIGYF2 axis acts independently of the ZNF598 axis, but each pathway's output is more pronounced without the other. We propose that the widely conserved and highly abundant EDF1 monitors the transcriptome for excessive ribosome density, then triggers a GIGYF2-mediated response to locally and temporarily reduce ribosome loading. Only when collisions persist is translation abandoned to initiate ZNF598-dependent quality control. This tiered response to ribosome collisions would allow cells to dynamically tune translation rates while ensuring fidelity of the resulting protein products.
PXD020510	32659386	Value of lipocalin 2 as a potential biomarker for bacterial meningitis. 	Value of lipocalin 2 as a potential biomarker for bacterial meningitis	Bacterial meningitis, CNS, CSF	OBJECTIVES: Central nervous system (CNS) infections are common causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. We aimed to discover protein biomarkers that could rapidly and accurately identify the likely cause of the infections, essential for clinical management and improving outcome. METHODS: We applied liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry on 45 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from a cohort of adults with and without CNS infections to discover potential diagnostic biomarkers. We then validated the diagnostic performance of a selected biomarker candidate in an independent cohort of 364 consecutively treated adults with CNS infections admitted to a referral hospital in Vietnam. RESULTS: In the discovery cohort, we identified lipocalin 2 (LCN2) as a potential biomarker of bacterial meningitis (BM) other than tuberculous meningitis. The analysis of the validation cohort showed that LCN2 could discriminate BM from other CNS infections (including tuberculous meningitis, cryptococcal meningitis and virus/antibody-mediated encephalitis), with sensitivity of 0.88 (95% confident interval (CI), 0.77-0.94), specificity of 0.91 (95% CI, 0.88-0.94) and diagnostic odds ratio of 73.8 (95% CI, 31.8-171.4). LCN2 outperformed other CSF markers (leukocytes, glucose, protein and lactate) commonly used in routine care worldwide. The combination of LCN2, CSF leukocytes, glucose, protein and lactate resulted in the highest diagnostic performance for BM (area under the receiver operating characteristics curve, 0.96; 95% CI, 0.93-0.99). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020510. CONCLUSIONS: LCN2 is a sensitive and specific biomarker for discriminating BM from a broad spectrum of other CNS infections. A prospective study is needed to assess the diagnostic utility of LCN2 in the diagnosis and management of CNS infections.
PXD019505	32660103	Toxicoproteomic Profiling of hPXR Transgenic Mice Treated with Rifampicin and Isoniazid. 	Toxicoproteomic Profiling of hPXR Transgenic Mice Treated with Rifampicin and Isoniazid	anemia, antitubercular therapy, cytochrome P450, drug-induced liver injury, heme biosynthesis, hypercoagulability, iron-sulfur cluster, pellagra, vitamin B3, vitamin B6	Tuberculosis is a global health threat that affects millions of people every year, and treatment-limiting toxicity remains a considerable source of treatment failure. Recent reports have characterized the nature of hPXR-mediated hepatotoxicity and the systemic toxicity of antitubercular drugs. The antitubercular drug isoniazid plays a role in such pathologic states as acute intermittent porphyria, anemia, hepatotoxicity, hypercoagulable states (deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or ischemic stroke), pellagra (vitamin B3 deficiency), peripheral neuropathy, and vitamin B6 deficiency. However, the mechanisms by which isoniazid administration leads to these states are unclear. To elucidate the mechanism of rifampicin- and isoniazid-induced liver and systemic injury, we performed tandem mass tag mass spectrometry-based proteomic screening of mPxr(-)(/)(-) and hPXR mice treated with combinations of rifampicin and isoniazid. Proteomic profiling analysis suggested that the hPXR liver proteome is affected by antitubercular therapy to disrupt [Fe-S] cluster assembly machinery, [2Fe-2S] cluster-containing proteins, cytochrome P450 enzymes, heme biosynthesis, homocysteine catabolism, oxidative stress responses, vitamin B3 metabolism, and vitamin B6 metabolism. These novel findings provide insight into the etiology of some of these processes and potential targets for subsequent investigations. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD019505.
PXD013935	32660330	Extreme Acetylation of the Cardiac Mitochondrial Proteome Does Not Promote Heart Failure. 	Disruption of acetyl group balance in cardiomyocytes augments the mitochondrial acetylproteome without affecting respiratory function or heart susceptibility to pressure overload	Acetylation, Heart, Mitochondria	RATIONALE: Circumstantial evidence links the development of heart failure to posttranslational modifications of mitochondrial proteins, including lysine acetylation (Kac). Nonetheless, direct evidence that Kac compromises mitochondrial performance remains sparse. OBJECTIVE: This study sought to explore the premise that mitochondrial Kac contributes to heart failure by disrupting oxidative metabolism. METHODS AND RESULTS: A DKO (dual knockout) mouse line with deficiencies in CrAT (carnitine acetyltransferase) and Sirt3 (sirtuin 3)-enzymes that oppose Kac by buffering the acetyl group pool and catalyzing lysine deacetylation, respectively-was developed to model extreme mitochondrial Kac in cardiac muscle, as confirmed by quantitative acetyl-proteomics. The resulting impact on mitochondrial bioenergetics was evaluated using a respiratory diagnostics platform that permits comprehensive assessment of mitochondrial function and energy transduction. Susceptibility of DKO mice to heart failure was investigated using transaortic constriction as a model of cardiac pressure overload. The mitochondrial acetyl-lysine landscape of DKO hearts was elevated well beyond that observed in response to pressure overload or Sirt3 deficiency alone. Relative changes in the abundance of specific acetylated lysine peptides measured in DKO versus Sirt3 KO hearts were strongly correlated. A proteomics comparison across multiple settings of hyperacetylation revealed =~86% overlap between the populations of Kac peptides affected by the DKO manipulation as compared with experimental heart failure. Despite the severity of cardiac Kac in DKO mice relative to other conditions, deep phenotyping of mitochondrial function revealed a surprisingly normal bioenergetics profile. Thus, of the >120 mitochondrial energy fluxes evaluated, including substrate-specific dehydrogenase activities, respiratory responses, redox charge, mitochondrial membrane potential, and electron leak, we found minimal evidence of oxidative insufficiencies. Similarly, DKO hearts were not more vulnerable to dysfunction caused by transaortic constriction-induced pressure overload. CONCLUSIONS: The findings challenge the premise that hyperacetylation per se threatens metabolic resilience in the myocardium by causing broad-ranging disruption to mitochondrial oxidative machinery.
PXD020571	32661086	The PRDM14-CtBP1/2-PRC2 complex regulates transcriptional repression during the transition from primed to naive pluripotency. 	Identification of the components of PRDM14 complex in ESCs	ES cells, PRDM14	The pluripotency-associated transcriptional network is regulated by a core circuitry of transcription factors. The PR domain-containing protein PRDM14 maintains pluripotency by activating and repressing transcription in a target gene-dependent manner. However, the mechanisms underlying dichotomic switching of PRDM14-mediated transcriptional control remain elusive. Here, we identified C-terminal binding protein 1 and 2 (CtBP1 and CtBP2; generically referred to as CtBP1/2) as components of the PRDM14-mediated repressive complex. CtBP1/2 binding to PRDM14 depends on CBFA2T2, a core component of the PRDM14 complex. The loss of Ctbp1/2 impaired the PRDM14-mediated transcriptional repression required for pluripotency maintenance and transition from primed to naive pluripotency. Furthermore, CtBP1/2 interacted with the PRC2 complexes, and the loss of Ctbp1/2 impaired Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) and H3K27me3 enrichment at target genes after Prdm14 induction. These results provide evidence that the target gene-dependent transcriptional activity of PRDM14 is regulated by partner switching to ensure the transition from primed to naive pluripotency.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD012853	32661239	Epigenetic homogeneity in histone methylation underlies sperm programming for embryonic transcription. 	Epigenetic homogeneity in histone methylation underlies sperm programming for embryonic transcription	epigenetics, ice-ChIP, programming, sperm	Sperm contributes genetic and epigenetic information to the embryo to efficiently support development. However, the mechanism underlying such developmental competence remains elusive. Here, we investigated whether all sperm cells have a common epigenetic configuration that primes transcriptional program for embryonic development. Using calibrated ChIP-seq, we show that remodelling of histones during spermiogenesis results in the retention of methylated histone H3 at the same genomic location in most sperm cell. This homogeneously methylated fraction of histone H3 in the sperm genome is maintained during early embryonic replication. Such methylated histone fraction resisting post-fertilisation reprogramming marks developmental genes whose expression is perturbed upon experimental reduction of histone methylation. A similar homogeneously methylated histone H3 fraction is detected in human sperm. Altogether, we uncover a conserved mechanism of paternal epigenetic information transmission to the embryo through the homogeneous retention of methylated histone in a sperm cells population.
PXD018083	32661310	Rab27a co-ordinates actin-dependent transport by controlling organelle-associated motors and track assembly proteins. 	Immunoprecipitaiton of Rab27a from mouse melanoma cells	Rab27a, mouse melanoma cell line	Cell biologists generally consider that microtubules and actin play complementary roles in long- and short-distance transport in animal cells. On the contrary, using melanosomes of melanocytes as a model, we recently discovered that the motor protein myosin-Va works with dynamic actin tracks to drive long-range organelle dispersion in opposition to microtubules. This suggests that in animals, as in yeast and plants, myosin/actin can drive long-range transport. Here, we show that the SPIRE-type actin nucleators (predominantly SPIRE1) are Rab27a effectors that co-operate with formin-1 to generate actin tracks required for myosin-Va-dependent transport in melanocytes. Thus, in addition to melanophilin/myosin-Va, Rab27a can recruit SPIREs to melanosomes, thereby integrating motor and track assembly activity at the organelle membrane. Based on this, we suggest a model in which organelles and force generators (motors and track assemblers) are linked, forming an organelle-based, cell-wide network that allows their collective activity to rapidly disperse the population of organelles long-distance throughout the cytoplasm.
PXD016059	32661419	A redox switch regulates the structure and function of anti-apoptotic BFL-1. 	A Redox Switch Regulates the Structure and Function of Anti-Apoptotic BFL-1	BCL-2 family, HDXMS, apoptosis, conformational change, hydrogen deuterium exchange	Apoptosis is regulated by BCL-2 family proteins. Anti-apoptotic members suppress cell death by deploying a surface groove to capture the critical BH3 alpha-helix of pro-apoptotic members. Cancer cells hijack this mechanism by overexpressing anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family proteins to enforce cellular immortality. We previously identified and harnessed a unique cysteine (C55) in the groove of anti-apoptotic BFL-1 to selectively neutralize its oncogenic activity using a covalent stapled-peptide inhibitor. Here, we find that disulfide bonding between a native cysteine pair at the groove (C55) and C-terminal alpha9 helix (C175) of BFL-1 operates as a redox switch to control the accessibility of the anti-apoptotic pocket. Reducing the C55-C175 disulfide triggers alpha9 release, which promotes mitochondrial translocation, groove exposure for BH3 interaction and inhibition of mitochondrial permeabilization by pro-apoptotic BAX. C55-C175 disulfide formation in an oxidative cellular environment abrogates the ability of BFL-1 to bind BH3 domains. Thus, we identify a mechanism of conformational control of BFL-1 by an intramolecular redox switch.
PXD019275	32661420	Cryo-EM structures of holo condensin reveal a subunit flip-flop mechanism. 	Cryo-EM structures of holo condensin reveal a subunit flip-flop mechanism	BS3, condensin, crosslinking, tetramer	Complexes containing a pair of structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) family proteins are fundamental for the three-dimensional (3D) organization of genomes in all domains of life. The eukaryotic SMC complexes cohesin and condensin are thought to fold interphase and mitotic chromosomes, respectively, into large loop domains, although the underlying molecular mechanisms have remained unknown. We used cryo-EM to investigate the nucleotide-driven reaction cycle of condensin from the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Our structures of the five-subunit condensin holo complex at different functional stages suggest that ATP binding induces the transition of the SMC coiled coils from a folded-rod conformation into a more open architecture. ATP binding simultaneously triggers the exchange of the two HEAT-repeat subunits bound to the SMC ATPase head domains. We propose that these steps result in the interconversion of DNA-binding sites in the catalytic core of condensin, forming the basis of the DNA translocation and loop-extrusion activities.
PXD012617	32662770	Peroxiredoxin promotes longevity and H2O2-resistance in yeast through redox-modulation of protein kinase A. 	Peroxiredoxin promotes longevity and H2O2-resistance in yeast through redox-modulation of protein kinase A	PRM, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, oxidative stress	Peroxiredoxins are H2O2 scavenging enzymes that also carry out H2O2 signaling and chaperone functions. In yeast, the major cytosolic peroxiredoxin, Tsa1 is required for both promoting resistance to H2O2 and extending lifespan upon caloric restriction. We show here that Tsa1 effects both these functions not by scavenging H2O2, but by repressing the nutrient signaling Ras-cAMP-PKA pathway at the level of the protein kinase A (PKA) enzyme. Tsa1 stimulates sulfenylation of cysteines in the PKA catalytic subunit by H2O2 and a significant proportion of the catalytic subunits are glutathionylated on two cysteine residues. Redox modification of the conserved Cys243 inhibits the phosphorylation of a conserved Thr241 in the kinase activation loop and enzyme activity, and preventing Thr241 phosphorylation can overcome the H2O2 sensitivity of Tsa1-deficient cells. Results support a model of aging where nutrient signaling pathways constitute hubs integrating information from multiple aging-related conduits, including a peroxiredoxin-dependent response to H2O2.
PXD020039	32663021	Optimization of O-GIG for O-Glycopeptide Characterization with Sialic Acid Linkage Determination. 	Optimization of O-GIG for O-glycopeptide Characterization with Sialic Acid Linkage Determination -Figure 2	O-glycopeptide immobilization, O-glycosylation, OpeRATOR, lactoferrin, mucin, sialic acid	O-Glycoprotein analysis has been historically challenging due, in part, to a dearth of available enzymes active in the release of O-glycans. Moreover, chemical releasing methods, such as beta-elimination/Michael addition, are not specific to O-glycan release and can also eliminate phosphoryl substitutions. Both of these events leave behind deaminated serine and threonine and thus can lead to ambiguous structural conclusions. Recently, the O-protease OpeRATOR, derived from intestinal bacteria and expressed in Escherichia coli, has become commercially available. The digestion of O-glycoprotein yields O-glycopeptides cleaved at the N-terminal end of serine and threonine, with O-glycan remaining intact. The enzyme has a broad substrate specificity and includes mammalian cores 1-8. However, OpeRATOR is not fully active toward sialylated glycoproteins, and it has been suggested that this acidic residue be removed prior to digestion, thus sacrificing structural information. In this study, we investigated the performance of OpeRATOR under a range of conditions, including buffer selection, varying pH, sialic acid modification, and digestion temperature, in order to optimize the enzymatic activity, with a special emphasis on sialylated glycosites. Conditions derived in this work facilitate the OpeRATOR digestion of fully sialylated O-glycopeptides that are mass tagged to identify the sialyl linkage, thus facilitating the analysis of these charged O-glycopeptides, which are often important in biological processes.
PXD007088	32663359	Over-Expression of RNA Processing, Heat Shock, and DNA Repair Proteins in Breast Tumor Compared to Normal Tissue. 	Proteomic profiles of FFPE breast normal and tumor tissue	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Breast, FFPE, Human Proteome Project, Protein Profile, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Tissue	This study identifies the main changes in protein expression in human breast tumors compared to normal breast tissue. Malignant tumors (32) and normal breast tissue samples (23), from formaldehyde-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens are subjected to discovery proteomics using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry, with spectral counts for quantitation. The dataset contains 1406 proteins. Differential expression is measured using a method that takes advantage of estimates of the percentage of tumor on a slide. This analysis shows that the major classes of proteins over-expressed by tumors are RNA-binding, heat shock and DNA repair proteins. RNA-binding proteins, including heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (HNRNPs), SR splice factors (SRSF) and elongation factors form the largest group. Comparison with results from another study demonstrates that the RNA-binding proteins are associated specifically with malignant transformation, rather than with cell proliferation. HNRNP and SRSF proteins help define splice sites in normal cells. Their over-expression may dysregulate splicing, which in turn has the potential to promote malignant transformation.
PXD006711	32664538	SNAIL Promotes Metastatic Behavior of Rhabdomyosarcoma by Increasing EZRIN and AKT Expression and Regulating MicroRNA Networks. 	SNAIL is a key regulator of rhabdomyosarcoma progression and myogenic differentiation	MYF5, MYOD, SNAIL (SNAI1), metastasis, myogenic differentiation, myomiRs, rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS)	Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is a predominant soft tissue tumor in children and adolescents. For high-grade RMS with metastatic involvement, the 3-year overall survival rate is only 25 to 30%. Thus, understanding the regulatory mechanisms involved in promoting the metastasis of RMS is important. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that the SNAIL transcription factor regulates the metastatic behavior of RMS both in vitro and in vivo. SNAIL upregulates the protein expression of EZRIN and AKT, known to promote metastatic behavior, by direct interaction with their promoters. Our data suggest that SNAIL promotes RMS cell motility, invasion and chemotaxis towards the prometastatic factors: HGF and SDF-1 by regulating RHO, AKT and GSK3b activity. In addition, miRNA transcriptome analysis revealed that SNAIL-miRNA axis regulates processes associated with actin cytoskeleton reorganization. Our data show a novel role of SNAIL in regulating RMS cell metastasis that may also be important in other mesenchymal tumor types and clearly suggests SNAIL as a promising new target for future RMS therapies.
PXD010507	32664808	Multiomics analysis of the mdx/mTR mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. 	Proteomics on mdxmTR Mice     .	Skeletal Muscle	PURPOSE/AIM: Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a progressive neuromuscular disease characterized by extensive muscle weakness. Patients with DMD lack a functional dystrophin protein, which transmits force and organizes the cytoskeleton of skeletal muscle. Multiomic studies have been proposed as a way to obtain novel insight about disease processes from preclinical models, and we used this approach to study pathological changes in dystrophic muscles. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated hindlimb muscles of male mdx/mTR mice, which lack a functional dystrophin protein and have deficits in satellite cell abundance and proliferative capacity. Wild type (WT) C57BL/6 J mice served as controls. Muscle fiber contractility was measured, along with changes in the transcriptome using RNA sequencing, and in the proteome, metabolome, and lipidome using mass spectrometry. RESULTS: While mdx/mTR mice displayed gross pathological changes and continued cycles of degeneration and regeneration, we found no differences in permeabilized fiber contractility between strains. However, there were numerous changes in the transcriptome and proteome related to protein balance, contractile elements, extracellular matrix, and metabolism. There was only a 53% agreement in fold-change data between the proteome and transcriptome. Numerous changes in markers of skeletal muscle metabolism were observed, with dystrophic muscles exhibiting elevated glycolytic metabolites such as 6-phosphoglycerate, fructose-6-phosphate and glucose-6-phosphate, fructose bisphosphate, phosphorylated hexoses, and phosphoenolpyruvate. CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight the utility of multiomics in studying muscle disease, and provide additional insight into the pathological changes in dystrophic muscles that might help to indirectly guide evidence-based nutritional or exercise prescription in DMD patients.
PXD019768	32665404	Structural features of bovine colostral immunoglobulin that confer proteolytic stability in a simulated intestinal fluid. 	Avaxia_InGelDigest_Pancreatin digest products of bovine Ig	bovine immunoglobulin serum colotrum	Bovine colostral antibodies, purified from cow's milk produced immediately after calving, have enhanced resistance to degradation by intestinal proteases relative to antibodies from human or bovine serum, making them of particular interest as orally administered therapeutic agents. However, the basis of this resistance is not well defined. We evaluated the stability of AVX-470, a bovine colostral anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) polyclonal antibody used in early clinical studies for treatment of ulcerative colitis, using conditions that mimic the human small intestine. AVX-470 was degraded ~3 times more slowly than human IgG antibodies or infliximab (a monoclonal mouse-human chimeric IgG). Bovine IgG1 antibodies, the primary component of AVX-470, were slowly cleaved to F(ab')2 fragments. In contrast, bovine IgG2 and human IgG1 antibodies were cleaved rapidly into Fab and smaller fragments, pointing to specific regions where additional stability might be gained. Infliximab was modified to incorporate the sequences from these regions, including the bovine IgG1 hinge region and a predicted disulfide bonding motif linking the upper hinge region, the CH1 domain, and the light chain. This infliximab-bovine IgG1 chimera (bovinized infliximab) retained the antigen binding and neutralization activity of the WT sequence but was degraded 9-fold more slowly than the unmodified infliximab. This remarkable increase in stability with as few as 18 amino acid substitutions suggests that this bovinization process is a means to enable oral delivery of proven therapeutic antibodies as well as novel antibodies to targets that have been previously inaccessible to therapies delivered by injection.
PXD018088	32665600	Exploring the wound healing, anti-inflammatory, anti-pathogenic and proteomic effects of lactic acid bacteria on keratinocytes. 	Exploring the Wound Healing, Anti-Inflammatory, Anti-Pathogens and Proteomic Effects of Lactic Acid Bacteria on Keratinocytes	anti-inflammatory, keratinocytes, lactic acid bacteria, wound healing	The topical application of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) is recognized as a useful approach to improve skin health. This work aims to characterize by a multidisciplinary approach, the wound healing, anti-inflammatory, anti-pathogens and proteomic effects of six LAB lysates, belonging to the genus Lactobacillus. Our results demonstrated that the lysates of tested LAB stimulated the proliferation of keratinocytes, and that L. plantarum SGL 07 and L. salivarius SGL 19 accelerated the re-epithelization by inducing keratinocyte migration. The bacterial lysates also reduced the secretion of specific pro-inflammatory mediators from keratinocytes. Furthermore, viable L. salivarius SGL 19 and L. fermentum SGL 10 had anti-pathogenic effects against S. aureus and S. pyogenes, while L. brevis SGL 12 and L. paracasei SGL 04 inhibited S. aureus and S. pyogenes, respectively. The tested lactobacilli lysates also induced specific proteome modulation of the exposed keratinocytes, involving dysregulation of proteins (such as interleukin enhancer-binding factor 2 and ATP-dependent RNA helicase) and pathways (such as cytokine, NF-kB, Hedgehog, and RUNX signaling) associated with their specific wound healing and anti-inflammatory effects. This study indicates the different potential of selected lactobacilli, suggesting that they may be successfully used in the future together with conventional therapies to bring relief from skin disorders.
PXD018461	32665710	Genome wide transcriptomic analysis of the soil ammonia oxidizing archaeon Nitrososphaera viennensis upon exposure to copper limitation. 	Copper Limitation in Nitrososphaera viennensis	ammonia oxidizing archaea, copper, soil	Ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) are widespread in nature and are involved in nitrification, an essential process in the global nitrogen cycle. The enzymes for ammonia oxidation and electron transport rely heavily on copper (Cu), which can be limited in nature. In this study the model soil archaeon Nitrososphaera viennensis was investigated via transcriptomic analysis to gain insight regarding possible Cu uptake mechanisms and compensation strategies when Cu becomes limiting. Upon Cu limitation, N. viennensis exhibited impaired nitrite production and thus growth, which was paralleled by downregulation of ammonia oxidation, electron transport, carbon fixation, nucleotide, and lipid biosynthesis pathway genes. Under Cu-limitation, 1547 out of 3180 detected genes were differentially expressed, with 784 genes upregulated and 763 downregulated. The most highly upregulated genes encoded proteins with a possible role in Cu binding and uptake, such as the Cu chelator and transporter CopC/D, disulfide bond oxidoreductase D (dsbD), and multicopper oxidases. While this response differs from the marine strain Nitrosopumilus maritimus, conserved sequence motifs in some of the Cu-responsive genes suggest conserved transcriptional regulation in terrestrial AOA. This study provides possible gene regulation and energy conservation mechanisms linked to Cu bioavailability and presents the first model for Cu uptake by a soil AOA.
PXD017372	32666692	Insights into the Hematopoietic Regulatory Activities of Osteoblast by Secretomics. 	Secretome Comparison of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells and Immature Osteoblasts	Mesenchymal Stromal Cells, Osteoblasts, Secretome	Osteoblasts are a key component of the endosteal hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) niche and are recognized with strong hematopoietic supporting activity. Similarly, mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC)-derived osteoblast (M-OST) conditioned media (OCM) enhances the growth of hematopoietic progenitors in culture and modulate their engraftment activity. We aimed to characterize the hematopoietic supporting activity of OCM by comparing the secretome of M-OST to that of their precursor. Over 300 proteins were quantified by mass spectroscopy in media conditioned with MSC or M-OST, with 47 being differentially expressed. Included were growth factors, extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and proteins from the complement pathways. The functional contribution of selected proteins on the growth and differentiation of cord blood (CB) progenitors was tested. Secreted Protein Acidic and Rich in Cysteine (SPARC) and Galectin 3 (Gal3) had little impact on the growth of CB cells in serum-free medium (SFM). In contrast, inhibition of the complement 3 A receptor (C3a-R) present on CB progenitors significantly reduced the growth of CD34(+) cells in OCM cultures but not in SFM. These results provide new insights into changes in factors released by MSC undergoing osteoblast differentiation, and on paracrine factors that are partially responsible for the hematopoietic supporting activity of osteoblasts. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
PXD010544	32668389	Proteomic profiling of sclerotic hippocampus revealed dysregulated packaging of vesicular neurotransmitters in temporal lobe epilepsy. 	Proteomic profiling of sclerosis hippocampus revealed dysregulated packaging of vesicular neurotransmitters in temporal lobe epilepsy	annexin, hippocampus sclerosis, temporal lobe epilepsy, vesicle transmitters packaging	PURPOSE: Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most common type of epilepsy. Hippocampal sclerosis is the most distinctive pathological feature of TLE; however, its role in the pathogenesis of TLE remains to be clarified. We performed global protein expression analysis of hippocampus from TLE patients and controls, aiming to reveal the molecular signaling pathways related to TLE. METHOD: Proteomic and bioinformatic analyses of the hippocampus were performed on 4 TLE and 4 control samples. High-resolution liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), in combination with TMT-6plex quantification, was applied for global protein expression analysis. The proteomics results were validated by Western blot with 25 TLE and 25 control individuals and Immunohistochemistry analysis with 33 TLE and 10 control individuals. RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated differentially expressed proteins in the synaptic vesicle pathway, the prostaglandin synthesis and regulation pathway and endocannabinoids and retrograde modulation of synaptic transmission pathway. Among these, excitatory amino acid transporter 1 (EAAT1) and Vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) are critical for TLE and dysregulated expression might be closely related to the uptake of extracellular glutamate and contribute to the pathophysiology of TLE. Ras-related protein Rab-3A (RAB3A) downregulation might indicate the TLE-induced compensatory deficit in glutamate release. CONCLUSION: Our study indicates that expression of some proteins involved in the packaging of vesicular neurotransmitters is altered in TLE. In addition, upregulated expression of annexin family proteins, which are also related to TLE, might play an important role in protection against TLE.
PXD019780	32668392	The Role and Underlying Mechanism of Exosomal CA1 in Chemotherapy Resistance in Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma. 	The role and underlying mechanism of exosomal CA1 in chemotherapy resistance in diffuse large B cell lymphoma	CA1, Diffuse large B cell lymphoma, chemotherapy resistance, exosomes	Chemotherapy resistance plays a major role in treatment failure of diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Exosomes are closely related to tumor drug resistance. Herein, the expression of exosomal proteins in DLBCL and their roles in chemotherapy resistance of DLBCL are explored. Tandem mass tag labeling proteomics was used to perform proteomic profiling in exosomes from DLBCL patients' serum. The expression of carbonic anhydrase 1 (CA1) in parental, chemo-resistant DLBCL cells and DLBCL patient exosomes was detected. Proliferation of DLBCL following CA1 knockdown was investigated both in vitro and in vivo, along with the effects on nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathways. We identified 54 differentially expressed proteins. We validated that the expression level of exosomal CA1 was higher in chemo-resistant DLBCL cells than in chemo-sensitive counterparts. Knockdown of CA1 inhibited the growth of DLBCL via inhibiting the activation of NF-kappaB and STAT3 signaling pathways both in vitro and in vivo. An increased expression level of exosomal CA1 was associated with poorer prognosis, and exosomal CA1 could be used as a biomarker to predict chemotherapeutic efficacy. Our study suggests that exosomal CA1 can promote chemotherapy resistance in DLBCL via the NF-kappaB and STAT3 pathways, and it can serve as a biomarker for DLBCL prognosis.
PXD018324	32669362	Ubiquitin ligase SMURF2 enhances epidermal growth factor receptor stability and tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance. 	Mutant EGFR is a preferred SMURF2 substrate of ubiquitination: role in enhanced receptor stability and TKI sensitivity	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), LC-MS, Smad ubiquitination regulatory factor 2 (SMURF2), Ubiquitin conjugating enzyme H5 (UBCH5), protective ubiquitination, tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) resistance	The discovery of activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations spurred the use of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as erlotinib, as the first-line treatment of lung cancers. We previously reported that differential degradation of TKI-sensitive (e.g. L858R) and resistant (T790M) EGFR mutants upon erlotinib treatment correlates with drug sensitivity. We also reported that SMAD ubiquitination regulatory factor 2 (SMURF2) ligase activity is important in stabilizing EGFR. However, the molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear. Here, using in vitro and in vivo ubiquitination assays, MS, and superresolution microscopy, we show SMURF2-EGFR functional interaction is important for EGFR stability and response to TKI. We demonstrate that L858R/T790M EGFR is preferentially stabilized by SMURF2-UBCH5 (an E3-E2)-mediated polyubiquitination. We identified four lysine residues as the sites of ubiquitination and showed that replacement of one of them with acetylation-mimicking glutamine increases the sensitivity of mutant EGFR to erlotinib-induced degradation. We show that SMURF2 extends membrane retention of EGF-bound EGFR, whereas SMURF2 knockdown increases receptor sorting to lysosomes. In lung cancer cell lines, SMURF2 overexpression increased EGFR levels, improving TKI tolerance, whereas SMURF2 knockdown decreased EGFR steady-state levels and sensitized lung cancer cells. Overall, we propose that SMURF2-mediated polyubiquitination of L858R/T790M EGFR competes with acetylation-mediated receptor internalization that correlates with enhanced receptor stability; therefore, disruption of the E3-E2 complex may be an attractive target to overcome TKI resistance.
PXD019702	32669437	Regulation of stem cell function and neuronal differentiation by HERV-K via mTOR pathway. 	Co-IP of fHERV-K env protein and interactors	AP-MS, Co-IP, human endogenous retrovirus, on-bead digestion	Stem cells are capable of unlimited proliferation but can be induced to form brain cells. Factors that specifically regulate human development are poorly understood. We found that human stem cells expressed high levels of the envelope protein of an endogenized human-specific retrovirus (HERV-K, HML-2) from loci in chromosomes 12 and 19. The envelope protein was expressed on the cell membrane of the stem cells and was critical in maintaining the stemness via interactions with CD98HC, leading to triggering of human-specific signaling pathways involving mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase (LPCAT1)-mediated epigenetic changes. Down-regulation or epigenetic silencing of HML-2 env resulted in dissociation of the stem cell colonies and enhanced differentiation along neuronal pathways. Thus HML-2 regulation is critical for human embryonic and neurodevelopment, while it's dysregulation may play a role in tumorigenesis and neurodegeneration.
PXD018718	32669539	Co-option of Plasmodium falciparum PP1 for egress from host erythrocytes. 	Co-option of Plasmodium falciparum PP1 for egress from host erythrocytes	Plasmodium falciparum, SPS-MS3, TMT, isobaric tagging	Asexual proliferation of the Plasmodium parasites that cause malaria follows a developmental program that alternates non-canonical intraerythrocytic replication with dissemination to new host cells. We carried out a functional analysis of the Plasmodium falciparum homolog of Protein Phosphatase 1 (PfPP1), a universally conserved cell cycle factor in eukaryotes, to investigate regulation of parasite proliferation. PfPP1 is indeed required for efficient replication, but is absolutely essential for egress of parasites from host red blood cells. By phosphoproteomic and chemical-genetic analysis, we isolate two functional targets of PfPP1 for egress: a HECT E3 protein-ubiquitin ligase; and GCalpha, a fusion protein composed of a guanylyl cyclase and a phospholipid transporter domain. We hypothesize that PfPP1 regulates lipid sensing by GCalpha and find that phosphatidylcholine stimulates PfPP1-dependent egress. PfPP1 acts as a key regulator that integrates multiple cell-intrinsic pathways with external signals to direct parasite egress from host cells.
PXD019025	32669547	Structural snapshots of human pre-60S ribosomal particles before and after nuclear export. 	Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry (CXMS) of human pre-60S ribosomal particles	CXMS, ribosome	Ribosome biogenesis is an elaborate and energetically expensive program that involve two hundred protein factors in eukaryotes. Nuclear export of pre-ribosomal particles is one central step which also serves as an internal structural checkpoint to ensure the proper completion of nuclear assembly events. Here we present four structures of human pre-60S particles isolated through a nuclear export factor NMD3, representing assembly stages immediately before and after nuclear export. These structures reveal locations of a dozen of human factors, including an uncharacterized factor TMA16 localized between the 5S RNA and the P0 stalk. Comparison of these structures shows a progressive maturation for the functional regions, such as peptidyl transferase centre and peptide exit tunnel, and illustrate a sequence of factor-assisted rRNA maturation events. These data facilitate our understanding of the global conservation of ribosome assembly in eukaryotes and species-specific features of human assembly factors.
PXD018123	32669635	Phenotypic effects of paralogous ribosomal proteins bL31A and bL31B in E. coli. 	E.coli Ribosome protein composition	Escherichia coli, Ribosome	Ribosomes are essential macromolecular complexes conducting protein biosynthesis in all domains of life. Cells can have heterogeneous ribosomes, i.e. ribosomes with various ribosomal RNA and ribosomal protein (r-protein) composition. However, the functional importance of heterogeneous ribosomes has remained elusive. One of the possible sources for ribosome heterogeneity is provided by paralogous r-proteins. In E. coli, ribosomal protein bL31 has two paralogs: bL31A encoded by rpmE and bL31B encoded by ykgM. This study investigates phenotypic effects of these ribosomal protein paralogs using bacterial strains expressing only bL31A or bL31B. We show that bL31A confers higher fitness to E. coli under lower temperatures. In addition, bL31A and bL31B have different effects on translation reading frame maintenance and apparent translation processivity in vivo as demonstrated by dual luciferase assay. In general, this study demonstrates that ribosomal protein paralog composition (bL31A versus bL31B) can affect cell growth and translation outcome.
PXD016807	32670003	Brainstem Organoids From Human Pluripotent Stem Cells. 	Proteome analysis of brainstem organoids from human pluripotent stem cells	brain organoids, brainstem, dopaminergic neurons, human pluripotent stem cells, melanocyte, midbrain, neural crest	The brainstem is a posterior region of the brain, composed of three parts, midbrain, pons, and medulla oblongata. It is critical in controlling heartbeat, blood pressure, and respiration, all of which are life-sustaining functions, and therefore, damages to or disorders of the brainstem can be lethal. Brain organoids derived from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) recapitulate the course of human brain development and are expected to be useful for medical research on central nervous system disorders. However, existing organoid models are limited in the extent hPSCs recapitulate human brain development and hence are not able to fully elucidate the diseases affecting various components of the brain such as brainstem. Here, we developed a method to generate human brainstem organoids (hBSOs), containing midbrain/hindbrain progenitors, noradrenergic and cholinergic neurons, dopaminergic neurons, and neural crest lineage cells. Single-cell RNA sequence (scRNA-seq) analysis, together with evidence from proteomics and electrophysiology, revealed that the cellular population in these organoids was similar to that of the human brainstem, which raises the possibility of making use of hBSOs in investigating central nervous system disorders affecting brainstem and in efficient drug screenings.
PXD017837	32671157	Dataset of bovine mammary gland dry secretion proteome from the end of lactation through day 21 of the dry period. 	Characterization of Bovine Dry Secretions and their Proteome from the End of Lactation Through Day 21 of the Dry Period	Dairy cow dry period, bovine dry secretions, mammary involution, mastitis	This dataset is a label-free quantitation of proteins milk and dry secretions from the end of lactation through day 21 of the dry period using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The data supplied in this article supports the accompanying publication entitled "Characterization of bovine mammary gland dry secretions and their proteome from the end of lactation through day 21 of the dry period" [1]. The Thermo mass spectrometry raw files and MaxQuant files have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset number PXD017837.
PXD017789	32673341	c-Src functionality controls self-renewal and glucose metabolism in MCF7 breast cancer stem cells. 	c-Src functionality controls self-renewal, tumorigenicity and glucose metabolism in breast cancer stem cells	breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs), c-Src, cancer stem cell renewal, glycolysis, tumorigenesis	Deregulation of Src kinases is associated with cancer. We previously showed that SrcDN conditional expression in MCF7 cells reduces tumorigenesis and causes tumor regression in mice. However, it remained unclear whether SrcDN affected breast cancer stem cell functionality or it reduced tumor mass. Here, we address this question by isolating an enriched population of Breast Cancer Stem Cells (BCSCs) from MCF7 cells with inducible expression of SrcDN. Induction of SrcDN inhibited self-renewal, and stem-cell marker expression (Nanog, Oct3-4, ALDH1, CD44). Quantitative proteomic analyses of mammospheres from MCF7-Tet-On-SrcDN cells (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017789, project DOI: 10.6019/PXD017789) and subsequent GSEA showed that SrcDN expression inhibited glycolysis. Indeed, induction of SrcDN inhibited expression and activity of hexokinase, pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase, resulting in diminished glucose consumption and lactate production, which restricted Warburg effect. Thus, c-Src functionality is important for breast cancer stem cell maintenance and renewal, and stem cell transcription factor expression, effects linked to glucose metabolism reduction.
PXD016074	32673475	Predictive Signatures of 19 Antibiotic-Induced Escherichia coli Proteomes. 	Predictive signatures of 19 antibiotics-induced Escherichia coli proteomes	Antibiotics, Escherichia coli, Label-free, Mode of Action (MOA)., Quantitative Proteomics, Suspension Trapping (S-Trap)	Identifying the mode of action (MOA) of antibacterial compounds is the fundamental basis for the development of new antibiotics, and the challenge increases with the emerging secondary and indirect effect from antibiotic stress. Although various omics-based system biology approaches are currently available, enhanced throughput, accuracy, and comprehensiveness are still desirable to better define antibiotic MOA. Using label-free quantitative proteomics, we present here a comprehensive reference map of proteomic signatures of Escherichia coli under challenge of 19 individual antibiotics. Applying several machine learning techniques, we derived a panel of 14 proteins that can be used to classify the antibiotics into different MOAs with nearly 100% accuracy. These proteins tend to mediate diverse bacterial cellular and metabolic processes. Transcriptomic level profiling correlates well with protein expression changes in discriminating different antibiotics. The reported expression signatures will aid future studies in identifying MOA of unknown compounds and facilitate the discovery of novel antibiotics.
PXD016540	32674449	Functional Microbiota for Polypeptide Degradation during Hypertonic Moromi-Fermentation of Pixian Broad Bean Paste. 	MEJU of Pixian broadbean paste in day 29	Pixian broadbean paste	Traditional fermented bean pastes are indispensable seasonings in many East Asian countries. They are produced via hypertonic solutions by spontaneous fermentation. Functional, unknown microbiota carry great risks for food safety and stable quality. Thus, analysis and subsequent utilization of functional microbiota will be a good strategy to resolve these problems. During bean fermentation, the microbial functions were divided into two stages, including first stage-raw material (polypeptide) degradation and second stage-amino acid catabolism. In this study, we aimed to analyze the functional microbiota of first stage. Omics-studies, including high-throughput sequencing, correlation analysis and extracellular proteome, were used to generate candidate functional microbes for polypeptide degradation in this study. Then, we cultured the candidate functional microbes. After the batch fermentation and enzymatic analysis, we found three strains secreted peptidase and resulted amino acid accumulation, involving Aspergillus niger, Candida zeylanoides and Bacillus licheniformis. Thus, A. niger, C. zeylanoides and B. licheniformis conducted the functional microbiota for polypeptide degrading during hypertonic moromi fermentation. This study supplies a strategy for functional microbiota analysis. In addition, this is the first report that C. zeylanoides can secrete proteome and produce amino acids from polypeptide.
PXD019329	32674508	Separation and Paired Proteome Profiling of Plant Chloroplast and Cytoplasmic Ribosomes. 	Separation and Paired Proteome Profiling of Plant Chloroplast and Cytoplasmic Ribosomes	in vivo protein complex stabilization, plant proteomics, ribo-proteome, ribosome complexes, tissue specific separation	Conventional preparation methods of plant ribosomes fail to resolve non-translating chloroplast or cytoplasmic ribosome subunits from translating fractions. We established preparation of these ribosome complexes from Arabidopsis thaliana leaf, root, and seed tissues by optimized sucrose density gradient centrifugation of protease protected plant extracts. The method co-purified non-translating 30S and 40S ribosome subunits separated non-translating 50S from 60S subunits, and resolved assembled monosomes from low oligomeric polysomes. Combining ribosome fractionation with microfluidic rRNA analysis and proteomics, we characterized the rRNA and ribosomal protein (RP) composition. The identity of cytoplasmic and chloroplast ribosome complexes and the presence of ribosome biogenesis factors in the 60S-80S sedimentation interval were verified. In vivo cross-linking of leaf tissue stabilized ribosome biogenesis complexes, but induced polysome run-off. Omitting cross-linking, the established paired fractionation and proteome analysis monitored relative abundances of plant chloroplast and cytoplasmic ribosome fractions and enabled analysis of RP composition and ribosome associated proteins including transiently associated biogenesis factors.
PXD016384	32674575	Bordetellapertussis Acetylome is Shaped by Lysine Deacetylase Bkd1. 	Acetylome analysis of Bordetella pertussis reveals possible targets of novel BP0960 gene-encoded lysine deacetylase	Acetylome, Bordetella pertussis, Deacetylase activity	Post-translational modifications of proteins enable swift physiological adaptation of cells to altered growth conditions and stress. Aside from protein phosphorylation, acetylation on epsilon-amino groups of lysine residues (N-epsilon-lysine acetylation) represents another important post-translational modification of proteins. For many bacterial pathogens, including the whooping cough agent Bordetella pertussis, the role and extent of protein acetylation remain to be defined. We expressed in Escherichia coli the BP0960 and BP3063 genes encoding two putative deacetylases of B. pertussis and show that BP0960 encodes a lysine deacetylase enzyme, named Bkd1, that regulates acetylation of a range of B. pertussis proteins. Comparison of the proteome and acetylome of a Deltabkd1 mutant with the proteome and acetylome of wild-type B. pertussis (PRIDE ID. PXD016384) revealed that acetylation on lysine residues may modulate activities or stabilities of proteins involved in bacterial metabolism and histone-like proteins. However, increased acetylation of the BvgA response regulator protein of the B. pertussis master virulence-regulating BvgAS two-component system affected neither the total levels of produced BvgA nor its phosphorylation status. Indeed, the Deltabkd1 mutant was not impaired in the production of key virulence factors and its survival within human macrophages in vitro was not affected. The Deltabkd1 mutant exhibited an increased growth rate under carbon source-limiting conditions and its virulence in the in vivo mouse lung infection model was somewhat affected. These results indicate that the lysine deacetylase Bkd1 and N-epsilon-lysine acetylation primarily modulate the general metabolism rather than the virulence of B. pertussis.
PXD017585	32675111	Antagonism between splicing and microprocessor complex dictates the serum-induced processing of lnc-MIRHG for efficient cell cycle reentry. 	MicroRNA-host gene lncRNA  regulates the cell cycle re-entry post cellular quiescence	cell cycle, lncRNA, miR-222, quiescence	Cellular quiescence and cell cycle reentry regulate vital biological processes such as cellular development and tissue homeostasis and are controlled by precise regulation of gene expression. The roles of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) during these processes remain to be elucidated. By performing genome-wide transcriptome analyses, we identify differential expression of several hundreds of lncRNAs, including a significant number of the less-characterized class of microRNA-host-gene (MIRHG) lncRNAs or lnc-MIRHGs, during cellular quiescence and cell cycle reentry in human diploid fibroblasts. We observe that MIR222HG lncRNA displays serum-stimulated RNA processing due to enhanced splicing of the host nascent pri-MIR222HG transcript. The pre-mRNA splicing factor SRSF1 negatively regulates the microprocessor-catalyzed cleavage of pri-miR-222, thereby increasing the cellular pool of the mature MIR222HG Association of SRSF1 to pri-MIR222HG, including to a mini-exon, which partially overlaps with the primary miR-222 precursor, promotes serum-stimulated splicing over microRNA processing of MIR222HG Further, we observe that the increased levels of spliced MIR222HG in serum-stimulated cells promote the cell cycle reentry post quiescence in a microRNA-independent manner. MIR222HG interacts with DNM3OS, another lncRNA whose expression is elevated upon serum-stimulation, and promotes cell cycle reentry. The double-stranded RNA binding protein ILF3/2 complex facilitates MIR222HG:DNM3OS RNP complex assembly, thereby promoting DNM3OS RNA stability. Our study identifies a novel mechanism whereby competition between the splicing and microprocessor machinery modulates the serum-induced RNA processing of MIR222HG, which dictates cell cycle reentry.
PXD019553	32675242	Site-specific ubiquitination of pathogenic huntingtin attenuates its deleterious effects. 	Site-Specific Ubiquitination of Pathogenic Huntingtin Attenuates its Deleterious Effects	Huntingtin  Ubiquitination	Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive incurable neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and neuropsychiatric symptoms. It is caused by expansion of a cytosine-adenine-guanine triplet in the N-terminal domain of exon 1 in the huntingtin (HTT) gene that codes for an expanded polyglutamine stretch in the protein product which becomes aggregation prone. The mutant Htt (mHtt) aggregates are associated with components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, suggesting that mHtt is marked for proteasomal degradation and that, for reasons still debated, are not properly degraded. We used a novel HD rat model, proteomic analysis, and long-term live neuronal imaging to characterize the effects of ubiquitination on aggregation of mHtt and subsequent cellular responses. We identified two lysine residues, 6 and 9, in the first exon of mHtt that are specifically ubiquitinated in striatal and cortical brain tissues of mHtt-transgenic animals. Expression of mHtt exon 1 lacking these ubiquitination sites in cortical neurons and cultured cells was found to slow aggregate appearance rates and reduce their size but at the same time increase the number of much smaller and less visible ones. Importantly, expression of this form of mHtt was associated with elevated death rates. Proteomic analysis indicated that cellular reactions to mHtt expression were weaker in cells expressing the lysineless protein, possibly implying a reduced capacity to cope with the proteotoxic stress. Taken together, the findings suggest a novel role for ubiquitination-attenuation of the pathogenic effect of mHtt.
PXD018972	32675284	Caspr2 interacts with type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the developing cerebellum and regulates Purkinje cell morphology. 	Caspr2 interacts with type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the developing cerebellum and regulates Purkinje cell morphology	4, 5-trisphosphate receptor type 1, Caspr2, Itpr, Purkinje cell, cerebellum, inositol 1	Contactin-associated protein-like 2 (Caspr2) is a neurexin-like protein that has been associated with numerous neurological conditions. However, the specific functional roles that Caspr2 plays in the central nervous system and their underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we report on a functional role for Caspr2 in the developing cerebellum. Using a combination of confocal microscopy, biochemical analyses, and behavioral testing, we show that loss of Caspr2 in the Cntnap2(-/-) knockout mouse results in impaired Purkinje cell dendritic development, altered intracellular signaling, and motor coordination deficits. We also find that Caspr2 is highly enriched at synaptic specializations in the cerebellum. Using a proteomics approach, we identify type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R1) as a specific synaptic interaction partner of the Caspr2 extracellular domain in the molecular layer of the developing cerebellum. The interaction of the Caspr2 extracellular domain with IP3R1 inhibits IP3R1-mediated changes in cellular morphology. Together, our work defines a mechanism by which Caspr2 controls the development and function of the cerebellum and advances our understanding of how Caspr2 dysfunction might lead to specific brain disorders.
PXD019773	32676626	Streptococcus pneumoniae metal homeostasis alters cellular metabolism. 	Streptococcus pneumoniae metal homeostasis alters cellular metabolism	metabolism, metallostasis, pneumococcus, zinc	Streptococcus pneumoniae colonizes the human nasopharyngeal mucosa and is a leading cause of community-acquired pneumonia, acute otitis media, and bacterial meningitis. Metal ion homeostasis is vital to the survival of this pathogen across diverse biological sites and contributes significantly to colonization and invasive disease. Microarray and qRT-PCR analysis revealed an upregulation of an uncharacterized operon (SP1433-1438) in pneumococci subjected to metal-chelation by N,N,N',N'-tetrakis-(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN). Supplementation of zinc, cobalt, and nickel following TPEN treatment significantly abrogated induction. BLASTP comparisons and protein topology analysis predicted this locus to encode components of ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters involved in multidrug resistance (SP1434-1435) and energy-coupling factor (ECF) transporters (SP1436-1438). Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis identified differences in intracellular metal content in a Delta1434-8 mutant strain compared to parental T4R. Further, analysis of the secreted metabolome of WT and Delta1434-8 strains identified significant changes in pneumococcal glycolytic and amino acid metabolic pathways, indicating a shift towards mixed acid fermentation. Additionally, proteomic analysis revealed differentially expressed proteins in the Delta1434-8 mutant strain, with nearly 20% regulated by the global catabolite repressor, CcpA. Based on these findings, we propose that the transporters encoded by SP1433-1438 are involved in regulating the central metabolism of S. pneumoniae and contributing to bacterial survival during metal stress.
PXD011470	32677893	Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of ovarian follicles reveal the role of VLDLR in chicken follicle selection. 	Global comparative analysis on proteomes of chicken ovarian follicles before and after follicle selection	chicken, follicle development, follicle selection	BACKGROUND: Follicle selection in chickens refers to the process of selecting one follicle from a group of small yellow follicles (SY, 6-8 mm in diameter) for development into 12-15 mm hierarchical follicles (usually F6 follicles), which is an important process affecting laying performance in the poultry industry. Although transcriptomic analysis of chicken ovarian follicles has been reported, integrated analysis of chicken follicles for selection by using both transcriptomic and proteomic approaches is still rarely performed. In this study, we compared the proteomes and transcriptomes of SY and F6 follicles in laying hens and identified several genes involved in chicken follicle selection. RESULTS: Transcriptomic analysis revealed 855 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between SY follicles and F6 follicles in laying hens, among which 202 were upregulated and 653 were downregulated. Proteomic analysis revealed 259 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), including 175 upregulated and 84 downregulated proteins. Among the identified DEGs and DEPs, changes in the expression of seven genes, including VLDLR1, WIF1, NGFR, AMH, BMP15, GDF6 and MMP13, and nine proteins, including VLDLR, VTG1, VTG3, PSCA, APOB, APOV1, F10, ZP2 and ZP3L2, were validated. Further analysis indicated that the mRNA level of chicken VLDLR was higher in F6 follicles than in SY follicles and was also higher in granulosa cells (GCs) than in thecal cells (TCs), and it was stimulated by FSH in GCs. CONCLUSIONS: By comparing the proteomes and transcriptomes of SY and F6 follicles in laying hens, we identified several differentially expressed proteins/genes that might play certain roles in chicken follicle selection. These data may contribute to the identification of functional genes and proteins involved in chicken follicle selection.
PXD018354	32678094	The Bartonella autotransporter BafA activates the host VEGF pathway to drive angiogenesis. 	KT01_b: The Bartonella autotransporter BafA mimics host VEGF to drive angiogenesis. Wild type.	Angiogenesis, Autotransporter, Bacillary angiomatosis, BafA, Bartonella, VEGF signaling	Pathogenic bacteria of the genus Bartonella can induce vasoproliferative lesions during infection. The underlying mechanisms are unclear, but involve secretion of an unidentified mitogenic factor. Here, we use functional transposon-mutant screening in Bartonella henselae to identify such factor as a pro-angiogenic autotransporter, called BafA. The passenger domain of BafA induces cell proliferation, tube formation and sprouting of microvessels, and drives angiogenesis in mice. BafA interacts with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2 and activates the downstream signaling pathway, suggesting that BafA functions as a VEGF analog. A BafA homolog from a related pathogen, Bartonella quintana, is also functional. Our work unveils the mechanistic basis of vasoproliferative lesions observed in bartonellosis, and we propose BafA as a key pathogenic factor contributing to bacterial spread and host adaptation.
PXD015687	32678104	Multi-layered proteomic analyses decode compositional and functional effects of cancer mutations on kinase complexes. 	Multi-layered proteomic analyses decode compositional and functional effects of cancer mutations on kinase complexes	DDA, Dyrk2, PRM, SWATH-MS, cancer mutations	Rapidly increasing availability of genomic data and ensuing identification of disease associated mutations allows for an unbiased insight into genetic drivers of disease development. However, determination of molecular mechanisms by which individual genomic changes affect biochemical processes remains a major challenge. Here, we develop a multilayered proteomic workflow to explore how genetic lesions modulate the proteome and are translated into molecular phenotypes. Using this workflow we determine how expression of a panel of disease-associated mutations in the Dyrk2 protein kinase alter the composition, topology and activity of this kinase complex as well as the phosphoproteomic state of the cell. The data show that altered protein-protein interactions caused by the mutations are associated with topological changes and affected phosphorylation of known cancer driver proteins, thus linking Dyrk2 mutations with cancer-related biochemical processes. Overall, we discover multiple mutation-specific functionally relevant changes, thus highlighting the extensive plasticity of molecular responses to genetic lesions.
PXD019596	32678235	Proteomics analysis of FUS mutant human motoneurons reveals altered regulation of cytoskeleton and other ALS-linked proteins via 3'UTR binding. 	Proteomics analysis of FUS mutant human motoneurons reveals altered regulation of cytoskeleton and other ALS-linked proteins via 3'UTR binding	3'UTR, ASAP1, FUS protein, Motoneurons, VCP	Increasing evidence suggests that in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) mutated RNA binding proteins acquire aberrant functions, leading to altered RNA metabolism with significant impact on encoded protein levels. Here, by taking advantage of a human induced pluripotent stem cell-based model, we aimed to gain insights on the impact of ALS mutant FUS on the motoneuron proteome. Label-free proteomics analysis by mass-spectrometry revealed upregulation of proteins involved in catabolic processes and oxidation-reduction, and downregulation of cytoskeletal proteins and factors directing neuron projection. Mechanistically, proteome alteration does not correlate with transcriptome changes. Rather, we observed a strong correlation with selective binding of mutant FUS to target mRNAs in their 3'UTR. Novel validated targets, selectively bound by mutant FUS, include genes previously involved in familial or sporadic ALS, such as VCP, and regulators of membrane trafficking and cytoskeleton remodeling, such as ASAP1. These findings unveil a novel mechanism by which mutant FUS might intersect other pathogenic pathways in ALS patients' motoneurons.
PXD019160	32678275	Nucleosome binding by the pioneer transcription factor OCT4. 	Nucleosome binding by the pioneer transcription factor OCT4	Crosslinking MS, OCT4, chromatin, nucleosome	Transcription factor binding to genomic DNA is generally prevented by nucleosome formation, in which the DNA is tightly wrapped around the histone octamer. In contrast, pioneer transcription factors efficiently bind their target DNA sequences within the nucleosome. OCT4 has been identified as a pioneer transcription factor required for stem cell pluripotency. To study the nucleosome binding by OCT4, we prepared human OCT4 as a recombinant protein, and biochemically analyzed its interactions with the nucleosome containing a natural OCT4 target, the LIN28B distal enhancer DNA sequence, which contains three potential OCT4 target sequences. By a combination of chemical mapping and cryo-electron microscopy single-particle analysis, we mapped the positions of the three target sequences within the nucleosome. A mutational analysis revealed that OCT4 preferentially binds its target DNA sequence located near the entry/exit site of the nucleosome. Crosslinking mass spectrometry consistently showed that OCT4 binds the nucleosome in the proximity of the histone H3 N-terminal region, which is close to the entry/exit site of the nucleosome. We also found that the linker histone H1 competes with OCT4 for the nucleosome binding. These findings provide important information for understanding the molecular mechanism by which OCT4 binds its target DNA in chromatin.
PXD012980	32679107	IL6/STAT3 Signaling Hijacks Estrogen Receptor alpha Enhancers to Drive Breast Cancer Metastasis. 	IL6/STAT3 co-opts ER regulatory elements to drive metastasis in breast cancer	IL6, STAT3, cancer, metastasis	The cytokine interleukin-6 (IL6) and its downstream effector STAT3 constitute a key oncogenic pathway, which has been thought to be functionally connected to estrogen receptor alpha (ER) in breast cancer. We demonstrate that IL6/STAT3 signaling drives metastasis in ER(+) breast cancer independent of ER. STAT3 hijacks a subset of ER enhancers to drive a distinct transcriptional program. Although these enhancers are shared by both STAT3 and ER, IL6/STAT3 activity is refractory to standard ER-targeted therapies. Instead, inhibition of STAT3 activity using the JAK inhibitor ruxolitinib decreases breast cancer invasion in vivo. Therefore, IL6/STAT3 and ER oncogenic pathways are functionally decoupled, highlighting the potential of IL6/STAT3-targeted therapies in ER(+) breast cancer.
PXD017977	32679819	Proteomics Reveals that Methylmalonyl-CoA Mutase Modulates Cell Architecture and Increases Susceptibility to Stress. 	Proteomics cell model with gene MUT KO	MMA, Methylmalonic acidemias	Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is a rare inborn error of metabolism caused by deficiency of the methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MUT) enzyme. Downstream MUT deficiency, methylmalonic acid accumulates together with toxic metabolites from propionyl-CoA and other compounds upstream of the block in the enzyme pathway. The presentation is with life-threatening acidosis, respiratory distress, brain disturbance, hyperammonemia, and ketosis. Survivors develop poorly understood multi-organ damage, notably to the brain and kidneys. The HEK 293 cell line was engineered by CRISPR/Cas9 technology to knock out the MUT gene (MUT-KO). Shotgun label-free quantitative proteomics and bioinformatics analyses revealed potential damaging biological processes in MUT-deficient cells. MUT-KO induced alteration of cellular architecture and morphology, and ROS overproduction. We found the alteration of proteins involved in cytoskeleton and cell adhesion organization, cell trafficking, mitochondrial, and oxidative processes, as validated by the regulation of VIM, EXT2, SDC2, FN1, GLUL, and CHD1. Additionally, a cell model of MUT-rescuing was developed in order to control the specificity of MUT-KO effects. Globally, the proteomic landscape of MUT-KO suggests the cell model to have an increased susceptibility to propionate- and H2O2-induced stress through an impairment of the mitochondrial functionality and unbalances in the oxidation-reduction processes.
PXD012026	32681005	Dissecting the sequence determinants for dephosphorylation by the catalytic subunits of phosphatases PP1 and PP2A. 	Chemical phosphoproteomic approaches reveal substrate specificity of protein phosphatases-1 and -2	co-immunoprecipitation, phosphatase substrates, quantitative phosphoproteomics	The phosphatases PP1 and PP2A are responsible for the majority of dephosphorylation reactions on phosphoserine (pSer) and phosphothreonine (pThr), and are involved in virtually all cellular processes and numerous diseases. The catalytic subunits exist in cells in form of holoenzymes, which impart substrate specificity. The contribution of the catalytic subunits to the recognition of substrates is unclear. By developing a phosphopeptide library approach and a phosphoproteomic assay, we demonstrate that the specificity of PP1 and PP2A holoenzymes towards pThr and of PP1 for basic motifs adjacent to the phosphorylation site are due to intrinsic properties of the catalytic subunits. Thus, we dissect this amino acid specificity of the catalytic subunits from the contribution of regulatory proteins. Furthermore, our approach enables discovering a role for PP1 as regulator of the GRB-associated-binding protein 2 (GAB2)/14-3-3 complex. Beyond this, we expect that this approach is broadly applicable to detect enzyme-substrate recognition preferences.
PXD005472	32683046	Na2CO3-responsive Photosynthetic and ROS Scavenging Mechanisms in Chloroplasts of Alkaligrass Revealed by Phosphoproteomics. 	Na2CO3-responsive phosphoproteins in chloroplasts from Puccinellia tenuiflora leaves	Chloroplast, Na2CO3, Phosphoproteomics, Puccinellia tenuiflora	Alkali-salinity exerts severe osmotic, ionic, and high-pH stresses to plants. To understand the alkali-salinity responsive mechanisms underlying photosynthetic modulation and reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis, physiological and diverse quantitative proteomics analyses of alkaligrass (Puccinellia tenuiflora) under Na2CO3 stress were conducted. In addition, Western blot, real-time PCR, and transgenic techniques were applied to validate the proteomic results and test the functions of the Na2CO3-responsive proteins. A total of 104 and 102 Na2CO3-responsive proteins were identified in leaves and chloroplasts, respectively. In addition, 84 Na2CO3-responsive phosphoproteins were identified, including 56 new phosphorylation sites in 56 phosphoproteins from chloroplasts, which are crucial for the regulation of photosynthesis, ion transport, signal transduction, and energy homeostasis. A full-length PtFBA encoding an alkaligrass chloroplastic fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA) was overexpressed in wild-type cells of cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. Strain PCC 6803, leading to enhanced Na2CO3 tolerance. All these results indicate that thermal dissipation, state transition, cyclic electron transport, photorespiration, repair of photosystem (PS) II, PSI activity, and ROS homeostasis were altered in response to Na2CO3 stress, which help to improve our understanding of the Na2CO3-responsive mechanisms in halophytes.
PXD012337	32683515	Triphenyl phosphate is a selective PPARgamma modulator that does not induce brite adipogenesis in vitro and in vivo. 	In-vitro and in-vivo effects of an environmental PPARgamma metabolic disruptor, triphenyl phosphate, on adipogenic differentiation and metabolic functions	Metabolism, Phosphoproteomics	Triphenyl phosphate (TPhP) is an environmental PPARgamma ligand, and growing evidence suggests that it is a metabolic disruptor. We have shown previously that the structurally similar ligand, tributyltin, does not induce brite adipocyte gene expression. Here, using in vivo and in vitro models, we tested the hypothesis that TPhP is a selective PPARgamma ligand, which fails to induce brite adipogenesis. C57BL/6 J male mice were fed either a low or very high-fat diet for 13 weeks. From weeks 7-13, mice were injected intraperitoneally, daily, with vehicle, rosiglitazone (Rosi), or TPhP (10 mg/kg). Compared to Rosi, TPhP did not induce expression of browning-related genes (e.g. Elovl3, Cidea, Acaa2, CoxIV) in mature adipocytes isolated from inguinal adipose. To determine if this resulted from an effect directly on the adipocytes, 3T3-L1 cells and primary human preadipocytes were differentiated into adipocytes in the presence of Rosi or TPhP. Rosi, but not TPhP, induced expression of brite adipocyte genes, mitochondrial biogenesis and cellular respiration. Further, Rosi and TPhP-induced distinct proteomes and phosphoproteomes; Rosi enriched more regulatory pathways related to fatty acid oxidation and mitochondrial proteins. We assessed the role of phosphorylation of PPARgamma in these differences in 3T3-L1 cells. Only Rosi protected PPARgamma from phosphorylation at Ser273. TPhP gained the ability to stimulate brite adipocyte gene expression in the presence of the CDK5 inhibitor and in 3T3-L1 cells expressing alanine at position 273. We conclude that TPhP is a selective PPARgamma modulator that fails to protect PPARgamma from phosphorylation at ser273.
PXD017251	32685848	Deep Proteomic Deconvolution of Interferons and HBV Transfection Effects on a Hepatoblastoma Cell Line. 	Deep Characterization of the IFN-I/III-Stimulated Proteome  in HBV-Transfected or Native HepG2 Cells	Hepatitis B virus, Interferon alpha, Interferon lambda3, Quantitative proteomics	Interferons are commonly utilized in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection but are not effective for all patients. A deep understanding of the limitations of interferon treatment requires delineation of its activity at multiple "omic" levels. While myriad studies have characterized the transcriptomic effects of interferon treatment, surprisingly, few have examined interferon-induced effects at the proteomic level. To remedy this paucity, we stimulated HepG2 cells with both IFN-alpha and IFN-lambda and performed proteomic analysis versus unstimulated cells. Alongside, we examined the effects of HBV transfection in the same cell line, reasoning that parallel IFN and HBV analysis might allow determination of cases where HBV transfection counters the effects of interferons. More than 6000 proteins were identified, with multiple replicates allowing for differential expression analysis at high confidence. Drawing on a compendium of transcriptomic data, as well as proteomic half-life data, we suggest means by which transcriptomic results diverge from our proteomic results. We also invoke a recent multiomic study of HBV-related hepatocarcinoma (HCC), showing that despite HBV's role in initiating HCC, the regulated proteomic landscapes of HBV transfection and HCC do not strongly align. Special focus is applied to the proteasome, with numerous components divergently altered under IFN and HBV-transfection conditions. We also examine alterations of other protein groups relevant to HLA complex peptide display, unveiling intriguing alterations in a number of ubiquitin ligases. Finally, we invoke genome-scale metabolic modeling to predict relevant alterations to the metabolic landscape under experimental conditions. Our data should be useful as a resource for interferon and HBV researchers.
PXD017679	32686005	Unraveling the proteomic changes involved in the resistance response of Cajanus platycarpus to herbivory by Helicoverpa armigera. 	Differential response to herbivory by Helicoverpa armigera in Cajanus cajan and Cajanus platycarpus	Cajanus cajan, response to pest attack	The pigeonpea wild relative Cajanus platycarpus is resistant to Helicoverpa armigera, one of the major pests responsible for yield losses in Cajanus cajan. Deciphering the molecular mechanism underlying host plant resistance is pertinent to identify proteins that aid in the mitigation of the insect pest. The present study adopted comparative proteomics as a tool to interpret the resistance mechanism(s) in C. platycarpus vis-a-vis C. cajan during continued herbivory (up to 96 h). Over-representation analysis of the differentially expressed proteins implicated a multi-dimensional resistance response accomplished by both physical and chemical barriers in C. platycarpus. While the chemical basis for resistance was depicted by the upregulation of proteins playing a rate limiting role in the phenylpropanoid pathway, the physical basis was provided by the regulation of proteins involved in microtubule assembly and synthesis of lignins. Upregulation of proteins in the polyamine pathway indicated the role of metabolite conjugates to be negatively affecting herbivore growth. Reallocation of resources and diversion of metabolic flux to support the production of secondary metabolites could be the probable approach in the wild relative against herbivory. Our study provided deeper insights into the pod borer resistance mechanism in C. platycarpus for utility in crop improvement. KEY POINTS: * Pod borer resistance in Cajanus platycarpus is multi-dimensional. * Pod borer resistance has been arbitrated to cell wall rigidity and secondary metabolites. * Phenylpropanoid pathway derivatives apparently shaped the plant chemical defense against pod borer.
PXD020043	32686412	Danger in the Canopy. Comparative Proteomics and Bioactivities of the Venoms of the South American Palm Pit Viper Bothrops bilineatus Subspecies bilineatus and smaragdinus and Antivenomics of B. b. bilineatus (Rondonia) Venom against the Brazilian Pentabothropic Antivenom. 	Venom proteome of the snake Bothrops bilineatus from the Brazilian state of Rondnia	Bothrops bilineatus, snake venom, venomics	We report a structural and functional proteomics characterization of venoms of the two subspecies (Bothrops bilineatusbilineatus and B. b. smaragdinus) of the South American palm pit viper from the Brazilian state of Rondonia and B. b. smaragdinus from Peru. These poorly known arboreal and mostly nocturnal generalist predators are widely distributed in lowland rainforests throughout the entire Amazon region, where they represent an important cause of snakebites. The three B. bilineatus spp. venom samples exhibit overall conserved proteomic profiles comprising components belonging to 11 venom protein classes, with PIII (34-40% of the total venom proteins) and PI (8-18%) SVMPs and their endogenous tripeptide inhibitors (SVMPi, 8-10%); bradykinin-potentiating-like peptides (BBPs, 10.7-15%); snake venom serine proteinases (SVSP, 5.5-14%); C-type lectin-like proteins (CTL, 3-10%); phospholipases A2 (PLA2, 2.8-7.6%); cysteine-rich secretory proteins (CRISP, 0.9-2.8%); l-amino acid oxidases (LAO, 0.9-5%) representing the major components of their common venom proteomes. Comparative analysis of the venom proteomes of the two geographic variants of B. b. smaragdinus with that of B. b. bilineatus revealed that the two Brazilian taxa share identical molecules between themselves but not with Peruvian B. b. smaragdinus, suggesting hybridization between the geographically close, possibly sympatric, Porto Velho (RO, BR) B. b. smaragdinus and B. b. bilineatus parental populations. However, limited sampling does not allow determining the frequency of this event. The toxin arsenal of the South American palm pit vipers may account for the in vitro recorded collagenolytic, caseinolytic, PLA2, l-amino acid oxidase, thrombin-like and factor X-activating activities, and the clinical features of South American palm pit viper envenomings, i.e., local and progressively ascending pain, shock and loss of consciousness, spontaneous bleeding, and profound coagulopathy. The remarkable cross-reactivity of the Brazilian pentabothropic SAB antivenom toward the heterologous B. b. bilineatus venom suggests that the paraspecific antigenic determinants should have been already present in the venom of the last common ancestor of the Bothrops "jararaca" and "taeniatus" clades, about 8.5 Mya in the mid-late Miocene epoch of the Cenozoic era. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifiers PXD020043, PXD020026, and PXD020013.
PXD013615	32686665	Proteome activity landscapes of tumor cell lines determine drug responses. 	ATLANTIC: Activity landscapes of tumor cell lines determine drug responses	CRC65, NCI60, Tumor cell lines, drug sensitivity, pharmacoproteomics	Integrated analysis of genomes, transcriptomes, proteomes and drug responses of cancer cell lines (CCLs) is an emerging approach to uncover molecular mechanisms of drug action. We extend this paradigm to measuring proteome activity landscapes by acquiring and integrating quantitative data for 10,000 proteins and 55,000 phosphorylation sites (p-sites) from 125 CCLs. These data are used to contextualize proteins and p-sites and predict drug sensitivity. For example, we find that Progesterone Receptor (PGR) phosphorylation is associated with sensitivity to drugs modulating estrogen signaling such as Raloxifene. We also demonstrate that Adenylate kinase isoenzyme 1 (AK1) inactivates antimetabolites like Cytarabine. Consequently, high AK1 levels correlate with poor survival of Cytarabine-treated acute myeloid leukemia patients, qualifying AK1 as a patient stratification marker and possibly as a drug target. We provide an interactive web application termed ATLANTiC (http://atlantic.proteomics.wzw.tum.de), which enables the community to explore the thousands of novel functional associations generated by this work.
PXD015523	32686675	PDZD8 interacts with Protrudin and Rab7 at ER-late endosome membrane contact sites associated with mitochondria. 	PDZD8 interacts with Protrudin and Rab7 to form an ER-late endosome membrane contact site that recruits mitochondria	LS-MS/MS, Q Exactive Plus	Endosomes are compositionally dynamic organelles that regulate signaling, nutrient status and organelle quality by specifying whether material entering the cells will be shuttled back to the cell surface or degraded by the lysosome. Recently, membrane contact sites (MCSs) between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and endosomes have emerged as important players in endosomal protein sorting, dynamics and motility. Here, we show that PDZD8, a Synaptotagmin-like Mitochondrial lipid-binding Proteins (SMP) domain-containing ER transmembrane protein, utilizes distinct domains to interact with Rab7-GTP and the ER transmembrane protein Protrudin and together these components localize to an ER-late endosome MCS. At these ER-late endosome MCSs, mitochondria are also recruited to form a three-way contact. Thus, our data indicate that PDZD8 is a shared component of two distinct MCSs and suggest a role for SMP-mediated lipid transport in the regulation of endosome function.
PXD016385	32686824	RORalpha phosphorylation by casein kinase 1alpha as glucose signal to regulate estrogen sulfation in human liver cells. 	Proteins associated with RORalpha binding element on SULT1E1 gene	AP-MS, RORalpha binding element, SULT1E1 gene	Estrogen sulfotransferase (SULT1E1) metabolically inactivates estrogen and SULT1E1 expression is tightly regulated by multiple nuclear receptors. Human fetal, but not adult, livers express appreciable amounts of SULT1E1 protein, which is mimicked in human hepatoma-derived HepG2 cells cultured in high glucose (450 mg/dl) medium. Here, we have investigated this glucose signal that leads to phosphorylation of nuclear receptor RORalpha (NR1F1) at Ser100 and the transcription mechanism by which phosphorylated RORalpha transduces this signal to nuclear receptor HNF4alpha, activating the SULT1E1 promoter. The promoter is repressed by non-phosphorylated RORalpha which binds a distal enhancer (-943/-922 bp) and interacts with and represses HNF4alpha-mediated transcription. In response to high glucose, RORalpha becomes phosphorylated at Ser100 and reverses its repression of HNF4alpha promoter activation. Moreover, the casein kinase CK1alpha, which is identified in an enhancer-bound nuclear protein complex, phosphorylates Ser100 in in vitro kinase assays. During these dynamic processes, both RORalpha and HNF4alpha remain on the enhancer. Thus, RORalpha utilizes phosphorylation to integrate HNF4alpha and transduces the glucose signal to regulate the SULT1E1 gene in HepG2 cells and this phosphorylation-mediated mechanism may also regulate SULT1E1 expressions in the human liver.
PXD014668	32687028	Plasma-Derived Extracellular Vesicles as Potential Biomarkers in Heart Transplant Patient with Chronic Chagas Disease. 	Discovery of potential biomarkers in plasma-derived extracellular vesicles of a heart-transplanted chronic Chagas disease patient	Biomarkers, Chagas disease, Trypanosoma, extracellular vesicles, proteomic analysis	Chagas disease is emerging in countries to which it is not endemic. Biomarkers for earlier therapeutic response assessment in patients with chronic Chagas disease are needed. We profiled plasma-derived extracellular vesicles from a heart transplant patient with chronic Chagas disease and showed the potential of this approach for discovering such biomarkers.
PXD020424	32687348	Data-Independent Acquisition-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Protective Effect of Apigenin on Palmitate-Induced Lipotoxicity in Human Aortic Endothelial Cells. 	DIA-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of HAEC cells	DDA, DIA, HAEC cells	The ingestion of excessive free fatty acid could induce lipotoxicity in tissues and then lead to the initiation of many metabolism diseases. In this work, the protective effect of apigenin on palmitate-induced lipotoxicity in human aortic endothelial cells (HAEC) was investigated. Compared with 150 muM palmitate treatment alone, pretreatment with 10 muM apigenin for 6 h significantly increased the cell viability from 71.55 +/- 3.62 to 91.06 +/- 4.30% and improved mitochondrial membrane potential to the normal level (101.62 +/- 11.72% of control). In addition, the production of nitric oxide was markedly elevated by apigenin cotreatment from 7.10 +/- 3.95 to 94.20 +/- 21.86%. The data-independent acquisition-based proteomic approach was used to study the protective mechanism, and the results revealed that 242 proteins were differently expressed in cells treated with palmitate and 93 proteins were reversed after apigenin supplementation. Apigenin realized its protective function mainly via regulating pathways such as IL-17, TNF, Fox O, cell adhesion, and endoplasmic reticulum protein processing. Collectively, these data demonstrated that apigenin supplement may serve as an alternative nutritional intervention to protect HAEC against lipotoxicity.
PXD017605	32687632	Probing SWATH-MS as a tool for proteome level quantification in a nonmodel fish. 	SWATH proteome for the coral reef fish, Acanthochromis polyacanthus, under ocean acidification and ocean warming	SWATH, coral reef, differential expression, fish, spectral library	Quantitative proteomics via mass spectrometry can provide valuable insight into molecular and phenotypic characteristics of a living system. Recent mass spectrometry developments include data-independent acquisition (SWATH/DIA-MS), an accurate, sensitive and reproducible method for analysing the whole proteome. The main requirement for this method is the creation of a comprehensive spectral library. New technologies have emerged producing larger and more accurate species-specific libraries leading to a progressive collection of proteome references for multiple molecular model species. Here, for the first time, we set out to compare different spectral library constructions using multiple tissues from a coral reef fish to demonstrate its value and feasibility for nonmodel organisms. We created a large spectral library composed of 12,553 protein groups from liver and brain tissues. Via identification of differentially expressed proteins under fish exposure to elevated pCO2 and temperature, we validated the application and usefulness of these different spectral libraries. Successful identification of significant differentially expressed proteins from different environmental exposures occurred using the library with a combination of data-independent and data-dependent acquisition methods as well as both tissue types. Further analysis revealed expected patterns of significantly up-regulated heat shock proteins in a dual condition of ocean warming and acidification indicating the biological accuracy and relevance of the method. This study provides the first reference spectral library for a nonmodel organism. It represents a useful guide for future building of accurate spectral library references in nonmodel organisms allowing the discovery of ecologically relevant changes in the proteome.
PXD019317	32690608	Ozone-derived oxysterols impair lung macrophage phagocytosis via adduction of some phagocytosis receptors. 	ozone-derived oxisterols impair lung macrophage phagocytosis via adduction of phagocytosis receptors	CD206, bronchoalveolar lavage, click, lung macrophage, ozone, secosterol A/B	Inhalation of the ambient air pollutant ozone causes lung inflammation and can suppress host defense mechanisms, including impairing macrophage phagocytosis. Ozone reacts with cholesterol in the lung to form oxysterols, like secosterol A and secosterol B (SecoA and SecoB), which can form covalent adducts on cellular proteins. How oxysterol-protein adduction modifies the function of lung macrophages is unknown. Herein, we used a proteomic screen to identify lung macrophage proteins that form adducts with ozone-derived oxysterols. Functional ontology analysis of the adductome indicated that protein binding was a major function of adducted proteins. Further analysis of specific proteins forming adducts with SecoA identified the phagocytic receptors CD206 and CD64. Adduction of these receptors with ozone-derived oxysterols impaired ligand binding and corresponded with reduced macrophage phagocytosis. This work suggests a novel mechanism for the suppression of macrophage phagocytosis following ozone exposure through the generation of oxysterols and the formation of oxysterol-protein adducts on phagocytic receptors.
PXD018941	32690715	Specific thylakoid protein phosphorylations are prerequisites for overwintering of Norway spruce (Picea abies) photosynthesis. 	Specific thylakoid protein phosphorylations are prerequisites for overwintering of Norway spruce (Picea abies) photosynthesis	LHCII, PSBS, Picea abies, cold acclimation, overwintering, phosphorylation, photosynthesis, sustained NPQ, thylakoids	Coping of evergreen conifers in boreal forests with freezing temperatures on bright winter days puts the photosynthetic machinery in great risk of oxidative damage. To survive harsh winter conditions, conifers have evolved a unique but poorly characterized photoprotection mechanism, a sustained form of nonphotochemical quenching (sustained NPQ). Here we focused on functional properties and underlying molecular mechanisms related to the development of sustained NPQ in Norway spruce (Picea abies). Data were collected during 4 consecutive years (2016 to 2019) from trees growing in sun and shade habitats. When day temperatures dropped below -4 degreesC, the specific N-terminally triply phosphorylated LHCB1 isoform (3p-LHCII) and phosphorylated PSBS (p-PSBS) could be detected in the thylakoid membrane. Development of sustained NPQ coincided with the highest level of 3p-LHCII and p-PSBS, occurring after prolonged coincidence of bright winter days and temperatures close to -10 degreesC. Artificial induction of both the sustained NPQ and recovery from naturally induced sustained NPQ provided information on differential dynamics and light-dependence of 3p-LHCII and p-PSBS accumulation as prerequisites for sustained NPQ. Data obtained collectively suggest three components related to sustained NPQ in spruce: 1) Freezing temperatures induce 3p-LHCII accumulation independently of light, which is suggested to initiate destacking of appressed thylakoid membranes due to increased electrostatic repulsion of adjacent membranes; 2) p-PSBS accumulation is both light- and temperature-dependent and closely linked to the initiation of sustained NPQ, which 3) in concert with PSII photoinhibition, is suggested to trigger sustained NPQ in spruce.
PXD018572	32690943	A mass spectrometry-based proteome map of drug action in lung cancer cell lines. 	A mass spectrometry-based proteome map of drug action in lung cancer cell lines Part 4	Drug discovery, Perturbation profiling	Mass spectrometry-based discovery proteomics is an essential tool for the proximal readout of cellular drug action. Here, we apply a robust proteomic workflow to rapidly profile the proteomes of five lung cancer cell lines in response to more than 50 drugs. Integration of millions of quantitative protein-drug associations substantially improved the mechanism of action (MoA) deconvolution of single compounds. For example, MoA specificity increased after removal of proteins that frequently responded to drugs and the aggregation of proteome changes across cell lines resolved compound effects on proteostasis. We leveraged these findings to demonstrate efficient target identification of chemical protein degraders. Aggregating drug response across cell lines also revealed that one-quarter of compounds modulated the abundance of one of their known protein targets. Finally, the proteomic data led us to discover that inhibition of mitochondrial function is an off-target mechanism of the MAP2K1/2 inhibitor PD184352 and that the ALK inhibitor ceritinib modulates autophagy.
PXD016048	32690958	A quantitative thiol reactivity profiling platform to analyze redox and electrophile reactive cysteine proteomes. 	Quantitative thiol reactivity profiling	Chemical proteomics, Electrophile, Redox, Thiol	Cysteine is unique among all protein-coding amino acids, owing to its intrinsically high nucleophilicity. The cysteinyl thiol group can be covalently modified by a broad range of redox mechanisms or by various electrophiles derived from exogenous or endogenous sources. Measuring the response of protein cysteines to redox perturbation or electrophiles is critical for understanding the underlying mechanisms involved. Activity-based protein profiling based on thiol-reactive probes has been the method of choice for such analyses. We therefore adapted this approach and developed a new chemoproteomic platform, termed 'QTRP' (quantitative thiol reactivity profiling), that relies on the ability of a commercially available thiol-reactive probe IPM (2-iodo-N-(prop-2-yn-1-yl)acetamide) to covalently label, enrich and quantify the reactive cysteinome in cells and tissues. Here, we provide a detailed and updated workflow of QTRP that includes procedures for (i) labeling of the reactive cysteinome from cell or tissue samples (e.g., control versus treatment) with IPM, (ii) processing the protein samples into tryptic peptides and tagging the probe-modified peptides with isotopically labeled azido-biotin reagents containing a photo-cleavable linker via click chemistry reaction, (iii) capturing biotin-conjugated peptides with streptavidin beads, (iv) identifying and quantifying the photo-released peptides by mass spectrometry (MS)-based shotgun proteomics and (v) interpreting MS data by a streamlined informatic pipeline using a proteomics software, pFind 3, and an automatic post-processing algorithm. We also exemplified here how to use QTRP for mining H2O2-sensitive cysteines and for determining the intrinsic reactivity of cysteines in a complex proteome. We anticipate that this protocol should find broad applications in redox biology, chemical biology and the pharmaceutical industry. The protocol for sample preparation takes 3 d, whereas MS measurements and data analyses require 75 min and <30 min, respectively, per sample.
PXD016622	32692761	Plasma proteomic profiling suggests an association between antigen driven clonal B cell expansion and ME/CFS. 	Proteomics profiling of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome	Human Proteome Project, ME/CFS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), immunoglobulin	Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) is an unexplained chronic, debilitating illness characterized by fatigue, sleep disturbances, cognitive dysfunction, orthostatic intolerance and gastrointestinal problems. Using ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS), we analyzed the plasma proteomes of 39 ME/CFS patients and 41 healthy controls. Logistic regression models, with both linear and quadratic terms of the protein levels as independent variables, revealed a significant association between ME/CFS and the immunoglobulin heavy variable (IGHV) region 3-23/30. Stratifying the ME/CFS group based on self-reported irritable bowel syndrome (sr-IBS) status revealed a significant quadratic effect of immunoglobulin lambda constant region 7 on its association with ME/CFS with sr-IBS whilst IGHV3-23/30 and immunoglobulin kappa variable region 3-11 were significantly associated with ME/CFS without sr-IBS. In addition, we were able to predict ME/CFS status with a high degree of accuracy (AUC = 0.774-0.838) using a panel of proteins selected by 3 different machine learning algorithms: Lasso, Random Forests, and XGBoost. These algorithms also identified proteomic profiles that predicted the status of ME/CFS patients with sr-IBS (AUC = 0.806-0.846) and ME/CFS without sr-IBS (AUC = 0.754-0.780). Our findings are consistent with a significant association of ME/CFS with immune dysregulation and highlight the potential use of the plasma proteome as a source of biomarkers for disease.
PXD017227	32693407	Novel manifestations of immune dysregulation and granule defects in gray platelet syndrome. 	Novel manifestations of immune dysregulation and granule defects in gray platelet syndrome	GPS, Plasma	Gray platelet syndrome (GPS) is a rare recessive disorder caused by biallelic variants in NBEAL2 and characterized by bleeding symptoms, the absence of platelet alpha-granules, splenomegaly, and bone marrow (BM) fibrosis. Due to the rarity of GPS, it has been difficult to fully understand the pathogenic processes that lead to these clinical sequelae. To discern the spectrum of pathologic features, we performed a detailed clinical genotypic and phenotypic study of 47 patients with GPS and identified 32 new etiologic variants in NBEAL2. The GPS patient cohort exhibited known phenotypes, including macrothrombocytopenia, BM fibrosis, megakaryocyte emperipolesis of neutrophils, splenomegaly, and elevated serum vitamin B12 levels. Novel clinical phenotypes were also observed, including reduced leukocyte counts and increased presence of autoimmune disease and positive autoantibodies. There were widespread differences in the transcriptome and proteome of GPS platelets, neutrophils, monocytes, and CD4 lymphocytes. Proteins less abundant in these cells were enriched for constituents of granules, supporting a role for Nbeal2 in the function of these organelles across a wide range of blood cells. Proteomic analysis of GPS plasma showed increased levels of proteins associated with inflammation and immune response. One-quarter of plasma proteins increased in GPS are known to be synthesized outside of hematopoietic cells, predominantly in the liver. In summary, our data show that, in addition to the well-described platelet defects in GPS, there are immune defects. The abnormal immune cells may be the drivers of systemic abnormalities such as autoimmune disease.
PXD019969	32693607	Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry-Based Tissue Metabolic Profiling Reveals Major Metabolic Pathway Alterations and Potential Biomarkers of Lung Cancer. 	Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry based tissue metabolic profiling reveals major metabolic pathway alterations and potential biomarkers of lung cancer	Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, Lung cancer, metabolomics, tissue	Unclarified molecular mechanism and lack of practical diagnosis biomarkers hinder the effective treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer. Herein, we performed liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based nontargeted metabolomics analysis in 131 patients with their lung tissue pairs to study the metabolic characteristics and disordered metabolic pathways in lung tumor. A total of 339 metabolites were identified in metabolic profiling. Also, 241 differential metabolites were found between lung carcinoma tissues (LCTs) and paired distal noncancerous tissues; amino acids, purine metabolites, fatty acids, phospholipids, and most of lysophospholipids significantly increased in LCTs, while 3-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvate, 6-phosphogluconate, and citrate decreased. Additionally, pathway enrichment analysis revealed that energy, purine, amino acid, lipid, and glutathione metabolism are markedly disturbed in lung cancer (LCa). Using binary logistic regression, we further defined candidate biomarkers for different subtypes of lung tumor. Xanthine and PC 35:2 were selected as combinational biomarkers for distinguishing benign from malignant lung tumors with a 0.886 area under curve (AUC) value, and creatine, myoinositol and LPE 16:0 were defined as combinational biomarkers for discriminating adenocarcinoma from squamous cell lung carcinoma with a 0.934 AUC value. Overall, metabolic characterization and pathway disturbance demonstrated apparent metabolic reprogramming in LCa. The defined candidate metabolite marker panels are useful for subtyping of lung tumors to assist clinical diagnosis.
PXD018189	32694122	Benefits of Collisional Cross Section Assisted Precursor Selection (caps-PASEF) for Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry. 	capsPASEF - Collisional Cross Section Assisted Precursor Selection Applied to Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry	Cross-linking mass spectrometry, Ion Mobility, PhoX, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, XL-MS	Ion mobility separates molecules in the gas-phase based on their physico-chemical properties, providing information about their size as collisional cross-sections. The timsTOF Pro combines trapped ion mobility with a quadrupole, collision cell and a TOF mass analyzer, to probe ions at high speeds with on-the-fly fragmentation. Here, we show that on this platform ion mobility is beneficial for cross-linking MS (XL-MS). Cross-linking reagents covalently link amino acids in proximity, resulting in peptide pairs after proteolytic digestion. These cross-linked peptides are typically present at low abundance in the background of normal peptides, which can partially be resolved by using enrichable cross-linking reagents. Even with a very efficient enrichable cross-linking reagent, like PhoX, the analysis of cross-linked peptides is still hampered by the co-enrichment of peptides connected to a partially hydrolyzed reagent - termed mono-linked peptides. For experiments aiming to uncover protein-protein interactions these are unwanted byproducts. Here, we demonstrate that gas-phase separation by ion mobility enables the separation of mono-linked peptides from cross-linked peptide pairs. A clear partition between these two classes is observed at a CCS of 500 Aa(2) and a monoisotopic mass of 2 kDa, which can be used for targeted precursor selection. A total of 50-70% of the mono-linked peptides are prevented from sequencing, allowing the analysis to focus on sequencing the relevant cross-linked peptide pairs. In applications to both simple proteins and protein mixtures and a complete highly complex lysate this approach provides a substantial increase in detected cross-linked peptides.
PXD019123	32694149	Decreased Mitochondrial DNA Content Drives OXPHOS Dysregulation in Chromophobe Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	Proteome profilling of chromophobe renal cell carcinomas	chromophobe renal cell carcinomas, kidney cancer	Chromophobe renal cell carcinoma (chRCC) and renal oncocytoma are closely related, rare kidney tumors. Mutations in complex I (CI)-encoding genes play an important role in dysfunction of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system in renal oncocytoma, but are less frequently observed in chRCC. As such, the relevance of OXPHOS status and role of CI mutations in chRCC remain unknown. To address this issue, we performed proteome and metabolome profiling as well as mitochondrial whole-exome sequencing to detect mitochondrial alterations in chRCC tissue specimens. Multiomic analysis revealed downregulation of electron transport chain (ETC) components in chRCC that differed from the expression profile in renal oncocytoma. A decrease in mitochondrial (mt)DNA content, rather than CI mutations, was the main cause for reduced OXPHOS in chRCC. There was a negative correlation between protein and transcript levels of nuclear DNA- but not mtDNA-encoded ETC complex subunits in chRCC. In addition, the reactive oxygen species scavenger glutathione (GSH) was upregulated in chRCC due to decreased expression of proteins involved in GSH degradation. These results demonstrate that distinct mechanisms of OXPHOS exist in chRCC and renal oncocytoma and that expression levels of ETC complex subunits can serve as a diagnostic marker for this rare malignancy. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings establish potential diagnostic markers to distinguish malignant chRCC from its highly similar but benign counterpart, renal oncocytoma.
PXD015658	32694165	The structure and symmetry of the radial spoke protein complex in Chlamydomonas flagella. 	The structure and symmetry of the Radial Spoke protein complex in Chlamydomonas flagella	Chemical cross-linking, DSS, Radial Spoke complex, structural proteomics	The radial spoke is a key element in a transducer apparatus controlling the motility of eukaryotic cilia. The transduction biomechanics is a long-standing question in cilia biology. The radial spoke has three regions - a spoke head, a bifurcated neck and a stalk. Although the neck and the stalk are asymmetric, twofold symmetry of the head has remained controversial. In this work we used single particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) analysis to generate a 3D structure of the whole radial spoke at unprecedented resolution. We show the head region at 15 Aa (1.5 nm) resolution and confirm twofold symmetry. Using distance constraints generated by cross-linking mass spectrometry, we locate two components, RSP2 and RSP4, at the head and neck regions. Our biophysical analysis of isolated RSP4, RSP9, and RSP10 affirmed their oligomeric state. Our results enable us to redefine the boundaries of the regions and propose a model of organization of the radial spoke component proteins.
PXD019598	32694168	TMEM147 interacts with lamin B receptor, regulates its localization and levels, and affects cholesterol homeostasis. 	Protein interactions of TMEM147 and TMEM129 proteins from HeLa cells in co-IP experiments	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase TM129, ER multi-pass transmembrane proteins, Protein NIFIE 14	The structurally and functionally complex endoplasmic reticulum (ER) hosts critical processes including lipid synthesis. Here, we focus on the functional characterization of transmembrane protein TMEM147, and report that it localizes at the ER and nuclear envelope in HeLa cells. Silencing of TMEM147 drastically reduces the level of lamin B receptor (LBR) at the inner nuclear membrane and results in mistargeting of LBR to the ER. LBR possesses a modular structure and corresponding bifunctionality, acting in heterochromatin organization via its N-terminus and in cholesterol biosynthesis via its sterol-reductase C-terminal domain. We show that TMEM147 physically interacts with LBR, and that the C-terminus of LBR is essential for their functional interaction. We find that TMEM147 also physically interacts with the key sterol reductase DHCR7, which is involved in cholesterol biosynthesis. Similar to what was seen for LBR, TMEM147 downregulation results in a sharp decline of DHCR protein levels and co-ordinate transcriptional decreases of LBR and DHCR7 expression. Consistent with this, lipidomic analysis upon TMEM147 silencing identified changes in cellular cholesterol levels, cholesteryl ester levels and profile, and in cellular cholesterol uptake, raising the possibility that TMEM147 is an important new regulator of cholesterol homeostasis in cells.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD019514	32694513	Distinct and stage-specific contributions of TET1 and TET2 to stepwise cytosine oxidation in the transition from naive to primed pluripotency. 	Distinct and stage-specific contributions of TET1 and TET2 to stepwise cytosine oxidation in the transition from naive to primed pluripotency	DNA methylation, epiblast-like cells, epigenetics, mouse embryonic stem cells	Cytosine DNA bases can be methylated by DNA methyltransferases and subsequently oxidized by TET proteins. The resulting 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), 5-formylcytosine (5fC), and 5-carboxylcytosine (5caC) are considered demethylation intermediates as well as stable epigenetic marks. To dissect the contributions of these cytosine modifying enzymes, we generated combinations of Tet knockout (KO) embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and systematically measured protein and DNA modification levels at the transition from naive to primed pluripotency. Whereas the increase of genomic 5-methylcytosine (5mC) levels during exit from pluripotency correlated with an upregulation of the de novo DNA methyltransferases DNMT3A and DNMT3B, the subsequent oxidation steps turned out to be far more complex. The strong increase of oxidized cytosine bases (5hmC, 5fC, and 5caC) was accompanied by a drop in TET2 levels, yet the analysis of KO cells suggested that TET2 is responsible for most 5fC formation. The comparison of modified cytosine and enzyme levels in Tet KO cells revealed distinct and differentiation-dependent contributions of TET1 and TET2 to 5hmC and 5fC formation arguing against a processive mechanism of 5mC oxidation. The apparent independent steps of 5hmC and 5fC formation suggest yet to be identified mechanisms regulating TET activity that may constitute another layer of epigenetic regulation.
PXD017492	32694575	A benzimidazole inhibitor attenuates sterile inflammation induced in a model of systemic autoinflammation in female mice. 	A benzimidazole inhibitor attenuates sterile inflammation induced in a model of systemic autoinflammation	benzimidazole, inflammation, urine	Sterile stimuli can trigger inflammatory responses, and in some cases can lead to a variety of acute or chronic diseases. In this study, we hypothesize that a benzimidazole inhibitor may be used as a therapeutic in the treatment of sterile inflammation. In vitro, this inhibitor blocks TLR signalling and inflammatory responses. The benzimidazole inhibitor does not prevent mouse macrophage activation after stimulation with 2,6,10,14-tetramethylpentadecane (TMPD, also known as pristane), a hydrocarbon oil that mimics features of sterile inflammation when injected in vivo. However, C57BL/6J female mice treated with the benzimidazole inhibitor exhibited a significant reduction of pristane-dependent induction of splenocyte number and weight. Conversely, no significant difference was observed in males. Using mass spectrometry, we found that the urine of pristane-injected mice contained increased levels of putative markers for several inflammatory diseases, which were reduced by the benzimidazole inhibitor. To study the mechanism, we showed that pristane-injected mice had increased cell free DNA in serum, which was not impacted by inhibitor treatment. However, chemokine release (e.g. MCP-1, RANTES and TARC) was significantly reduced in inhibitor-treated mice. Thus, the benzimidazole inhibitor might be used as a new drug to block the recruitment of immune cells during sterile inflammatory diseases in humans.
PXD018326	32694662	A molecular mechanism explaining albuminuria in kidney disease. 	Mouse kidney glomeruli. Control vs. podocin(R231Q/A268V)	Kidney, NPHS2, glomerulus, podocin	Mammalian kidneys constantly filter large amounts of liquid, with almost complete retention of albumin and other macromolecules in the plasma. Breakdown of the three-layered renal filtration barrier results in loss of albumin into urine (albuminuria) across the wall of small renal capillaries, and is a leading cause of chronic kidney disease. However, exactly how the renal filter works and why its permeability is altered in kidney diseases is poorly understood. Here we show that the permeability of the renal filter is modulated through compression of the capillary wall. We collect morphometric data prior to and after onset of albuminuria in a mouse model equivalent to a human genetic disease affecting the renal filtration barrier. Combining quantitative analyses with mathematical modelling, we demonstrate that morphological alterations of the glomerular filtration barrier lead to reduced compressive forces that counteract filtration pressure, thereby resulting in capillary dilatation, and ultimately albuminuria. Our results reveal distinct functions of the different layers of the filtration barrier and expand the molecular understanding of defective renal filtration in chronic kidney disease.
PXD013233	32694663	NFYB-1 regulates mitochondrial function and longevity via lysosomal prosaposin. 	NFYB-1 regulates mitochondrial function and longevity via lysosomal prosaposin	Mitochondria, NFYB-1, ageing, cardiolipin, ceramide, label-free, metabolomics, prosaposin, single shot, stress response, transcriptomics	Mitochondria are multidimensional organelles whose activities are essential to cellular vitality and organismal longevity, yet underlying regulatory mechanisms spanning these different levels of organization remain elusive(1-5). Here we show that Caenorhabditis elegans nuclear transcription factor Y, beta subunit (NFYB-1), a subunit of the NF-Y transcriptional complex(6-8), is a crucial regulator of mitochondrial function. Identified in RNA interference (RNAi) screens, NFYB-1 loss leads to perturbed mitochondrial gene expression, reduced oxygen consumption, mitochondrial fragmentation, disruption of mitochondrial stress pathways, decreased mitochondrial cardiolipin levels and abolition of organismal longevity triggered by mitochondrial impairment. Multi-omics analysis reveals that NFYB-1 is a potent repressor of lysosomal prosaposin, a regulator of glycosphingolipid metabolism. Limiting prosaposin expression unexpectedly restores cardiolipin production, mitochondrial function and longevity in the nfyb-1 background. Similarly, cardiolipin supplementation rescues nfyb-1 phenotypes. These findings suggest that the NFYB-1-prosaposin axis coordinates lysosomal to mitochondria signalling via lipid pools to enhance cellular mitochondrial function and organismal health.
PXD019686	32697082	Proteotyping SARS-CoV-2 Virus from Nasopharyngeal Swabs: A Proof-of-Concept Focused on a 3 Min Mass Spectrometry Window. 	Proteotyping of SARS-CoV-2 viral peptides in nasal swab simili	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, coronavirus, detection, diagnostic, proteotyping, severe acute respiratory syndrome, viral proteins, virus	Rapid but yet sensitive, specific, and high-throughput detection of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in clinical samples is key to diagnose infected people and to better control the spread of the virus. Alternative methodologies to PCR and immunodiagnostics that would not require specific reagents are worthy to investigate not only for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic but also to detect other emergent pathogenic threats. Here, we propose the use of tandem mass spectrometry to detect SARS-CoV-2 marker peptides in nasopharyngeal swabs. We documented that the signal from the microbiota present in such samples is low and can be overlooked when interpreting shotgun proteomic data acquired on a restricted window of the peptidome landscape. In this proof-of-concept study, simili nasopharyngeal swabs spiked with different quantities of purified SARS-CoV-2 viral material were used to develop a nanoLC-MS/MS acquisition method, which was then successfully applied on COVID-19 clinical samples. We argue that peptides ADETQALPQR and GFYAQGSR from the nucleocapsid protein are of utmost interest as their signal is intense and their elution can be obtained within a 3 min window in the tested conditions. These results pave the way for the development of time-efficient viral diagnostic tests based on mass spectrometry.
PXD019157	32697943	Elevated Glucose Levels Favor SARS-CoV-2 Infection and Monocyte Response through a HIF-1alpha/Glycolysis-Dependent Axis. 	SARS-CoV-2 induced glycolysis is essential for monocytes inflammatory response	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Sars-Cov2	COVID-19 can result in severe lung injury. It remained to be determined why diabetic individuals with uncontrolled glucose levels are more prone to develop the severe form of COVID-19. The molecular mechanism underlying SARS-CoV-2 infection and what determines the onset of the cytokine storm found in severe COVID-19 patients are unknown. Monocytes and macrophages are the most enriched immune cell types in the lungs of COVID-19 patients and appear to have a central role in the pathogenicity of the disease. These cells adapt their metabolism upon infection and become highly glycolytic, which facilitates SARS-CoV-2 replication. The infection triggers mitochondrial ROS production, which induces stabilization of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and consequently promotes glycolysis. HIF-1alpha-induced changes in monocyte metabolism by SARS-CoV-2 infection directly inhibit T cell response and reduce epithelial cell survival. Targeting HIF-1a may have great therapeutic potential for the development of novel drugs to treat COVID-19.
PXD018584	32697996	The lncRNA Growth Arrest Specific 5 Regulates Cell Survival via Distinct Structural Modules with Independent Functions. 	The lncRNA Growth Arrest Specific 5 regulates cell survival via distinct structural modules with independent functions	Growth Arrest, Non-coding RNA	There is increasing evidence that the architecture of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs)-just like that of proteins-is hierarchically organized into independently folding sub-modules with distinct functions. Studies characterizing the cellular activities of such modules, however, are rare. The lncRNA growth arrest specific 5 (GAS5) is a key regulator of cell survival in response to stress and nutrient availability. We use SHAPE-MaP to probe the structure of GAS5 and identify three separate structural modules that act independently in leukemic T cells. The 5' terminal module with low secondary structure content affects basal survival and slows the cell cycle, whereas the highly structured core module mediates the effects of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition on cell growth. These results highlight the central role of GAS5 in regulating cell survival and reveal how a single lncRNA transcript utilizes a modular structure-function relationship to respond to a variety of cellular stresses under various cellular conditions.
PXD018545	32698045	Endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction in aged hearts. 	Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress-mediated Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Aged Hearts	Aging, ER stress, mitochondrial dysfunction	Aging impairs the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), especially in interfibrillar mitochondria (IFM). Mitochondria are in close contact with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Induction of ER stress leads to ETC injury in adult heart mitochondria. We asked if ER stress contributes to the mitochondrial dysfunction during aging. Subsarcolemmal mitochondria (SSM) and IFM were isolated from 3, 18, and 24 mo. C57Bl/6 mouse hearts. ER stress progressively increased with age, especially in 24 mo. mice that manifest mitochondrial dysfunction. OXPHOS was decreased in 24 mo. IFM oxidizing complex I and complex IV substrates. Proteomic analysis showed that the content of multiple complex I subunits was decreased in IFM from 24 mo. hearts, but remained unchanged in in 18 mo. IFM without a decrease in OXPHOS. Feeding 24 mo. old mice with 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PBA) for two weeks attenuated the ER stress and improved mitochondrial function. These results indicate that ER stress contributes to the mitochondrial dysfunction in aged hearts. Attenuation of ER stress is a potential approach to improve mitochondrial function in aged hearts.
PXD019834	32699215	Multi-faceted epigenetic dysregulation of gene expression promotes esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. 	Differential protein expression between ESCC and normal tissues	ESCC, protein expression	Epigenetic landscapes can shape physiologic and disease phenotypes. We used integrative, high resolution multi-omics methods to delineate the methylome landscape and characterize the oncogenic drivers of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). We found 98% of CpGs are hypomethylated across the ESCC genome. Hypo-methylated regions are enriched in areas with heterochromatin binding markers (H3K9me3, H3K27me3), while hyper-methylated regions are enriched in polycomb repressive complex (EZH2/SUZ12) recognizing regions. Altered methylation in promoters, enhancers, and gene bodies, as well as in polycomb repressive complex occupancy and CTCF binding sites are associated with cancer-specific gene dysregulation. Epigenetic-mediated activation of non-canonical WNT/beta-catenin/MMP signaling and a YY1/lncRNA ESCCAL-1/ribosomal protein network are uncovered and validated as potential novel ESCC driver alterations. This study advances our understanding of how epigenetic landscapes shape cancer pathogenesis and provides a resource for biomarker and target discovery.
PXD017052	32699280	Rapid, deep and precise profiling of the plasma proteome with multi-nanoparticle protein corona. 	Rapid, Deep and Precise Profiling of the Plasma Proteome with Multi-Nanoparticle Protein Corona	cancer, nano particles, plasma	Large-scale, unbiased proteomics studies are constrained by the complexity of the plasma proteome. Here we report a highly parallel protein quantitation platform integrating nanoparticle (NP) protein coronas with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry for efficient proteomic profiling. A protein corona is a protein layer adsorbed onto NPs upon contact with biofluids. Varying the physicochemical properties of engineered NPs translates to distinct protein corona patterns enabling differential and reproducible interrogation of biological samples, including deep sampling of the plasma proteome. Spike experiments confirm a linear signal response. The median coefficient of variation was 22%. We screened 43 NPs and selected a panel of 5, which detect more than 2,000 proteins from 141 plasma samples using a 96-well automated workflow in a pilot non-small cell lung cancer classification study. Our streamlined workflow combines depth of coverage and throughput with precise quantification based on unique interactions between proteins and NPs engineered for deep and scalable quantitative proteomic studies.
PXD019893	32699299	Transition to naive human pluripotency mirrors pan-cancer DNA hypermethylation. 	Proteomics of the transition to nave human pluripotency	DNA methylation, Transcription factors, epigenetics, hESC, naive embryonic stem cells, reprogramming, resetting	Epigenetic reprogramming is a cancer hallmark, but how it unfolds during early neoplastic events and its role in carcinogenesis and cancer progression is not fully understood. Here we show that resetting from primed to naive human pluripotency results in acquisition of a DNA methylation landscape mirroring the cancer DNA methylome, with gradual hypermethylation of bivalent developmental genes. We identify a dichotomy between bivalent genes that do and do not become hypermethylated, which is also mirrored in cancer. We find that loss of H3K4me3 at bivalent regions is associated with gain of methylation. Additionally, we observe that promoter CpG island hypermethylation is not restricted solely to emerging naive cells, suggesting that it is a feature of a heterogeneous intermediate population during resetting. These results indicate that transition to naive pluripotency and oncogenic transformation share common epigenetic trajectories, which implicates reprogramming and the pluripotency network as a central hub in cancer formation.
PXD022017	32699849	Comparative multiplexed interactomics of SARS-CoV-2 and homologous coronavirus non-structural proteins identifies unique and shared host-cell dependencies. 	Comparative multiplexed interactomics of SARS-CoV-2 and homologous coronavirus non-structural proteins identifies unique and shared host-cell dependencies	Affinity purification-mass spectrometry, COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, mitochondria-associated endoplasmic reticulum membrane, non-structural proteins, nsp2, nsp4, tandem mass tags	Human coronaviruses (hCoV) have become a threat to global health and society, as evident from the SARS outbreak in 2002 caused by SARS-CoV-1 and the most recent COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2. Despite high sequence similarity between SARS-CoV-1 and -2, each strain has distinctive virulence. A better understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms mediating changes in virulence is needed. Here, we profile the virus-host protein-protein interactions of two hCoV non-structural proteins (nsps) that are critical for virus replication. We use tandem mass tag-multiplexed quantitative proteomics to sensitively compare and contrast the interactomes of nsp2 and nsp4 from three betacoronavirus strains: SARS-CoV-1, SARS-CoV-2, and hCoV-OC43 - an endemic strain associated with the common cold. This approach enables the identification of both unique and shared host cell protein binding partners and the ability to further compare the enrichment of common interactions across homologs from related strains. We identify common nsp2 interactors involved in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca (2+) signaling and mitochondria biogenesis. We also identifiy nsp4 interactors unique to each strain, such as E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes for SARS-CoV-1 and ER homeostasis factors for SARS-CoV-2. Common nsp4 interactors include N -linked glycosylation machinery, unfolded protein response (UPR) associated proteins, and anti-viral innate immune signaling factors. Both nsp2 and nsp4 interactors are strongly enriched in proteins localized at mitochondrial-associated ER membranes suggesting a new functional role for modulating host processes, such as calcium homeostasis, at these organelle contact sites. Our results shed light on the role these hCoV proteins play in the infection cycle, as well as host factors that may mediate the divergent pathogenesis of OC43 from SARS strains. Our mass spectrometry workflow enables rapid and robust comparisons of multiple bait proteins, which can be applied to additional viral proteins. Furthermore, the identified common interactions may present new targets for exploration by host-directed anti-viral therapeutics.
PXD017153	32701294	Ex Vivo Equine Cartilage Explant Osteoarthritis Model: A Metabolomics and Proteomics Study. 	Ex-Vivo Equine Cartilage Explant Osteoarthritis Model - A Metabolomics and Proteomics Study	Cartilage, Metabolomics, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Osteoarthritis	Osteoarthritis is an age-related degenerative musculoskeletal disease characterized by loss of articular cartilage, synovitis, and subchondral bone sclerosis. Osteoarthritis pathogenesis is yet to be fully elucidated with no osteoarthritis-specific biomarkers in clinical use. Ex vivo equine cartilage explants (n = 5) were incubated in tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)/interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta)-supplemented culture media for 8 days, with the media removed and replaced at 2, 5, and 8 days. Acetonitrile metabolite extractions of 8 day cartilage explants and media samples at all time points underwent one-dimensional (1D) (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance metabolomic analysis, with media samples also undergoing mass spectrometry proteomic analysis. Within the cartilage, glucose and lysine were elevated following TNF-alpha/IL-1beta treatment, while adenosine, alanine, betaine, creatine, myo-inositol, and uridine decreased. Within the culture media, 4, 4, and 6 differentially abundant metabolites and 154, 138, and 72 differentially abundant proteins were identified at 1-2, 3-5, and 6-8 days, respectively, including reduced alanine and increased isoleucine, enolase 1, vimentin, and lamin A/C following treatment. Nine potential novel osteoarthritis neopeptides were elevated in the treated media. Implicated pathways were dominated by those involved in cellular movement. Our innovative study has provided insightful information on early osteoarthritis pathogenesis, enabling potential translation for clinical markers and possible new therapeutic targets.
PXD016747	32702104	Eukaryote-Conserved Methylarginine Is Absent in Diplomonads and Functionally Compensated in Giardia. 	Quantitative proteomics of Giardia exposures to HKMT inhibitors	BIX-01294, Chaetocin, Giardia, HKMT inhibitor, protein methylation	Methylation is a common posttranslational modification of arginine and lysine in eukaryotic proteins. Methylproteomes are best characterized for higher eukaryotes, where they are functionally expanded and evolved complex regulation. However, this is not the case for protist species evolved from the earliest eukaryotic lineages. Here, we integrated bioinformatic, proteomic, and drug-screening data sets to comprehensively explore the methylproteome of Giardia duodenalis-a deeply branching parasitic protist. We demonstrate that Giardia and related diplomonads lack arginine-methyltransferases and have remodeled conserved RGG/RG motifs targeted by these enzymes. We also provide experimental evidence for methylarginine absence in proteomes of Giardia but readily detect methyllysine. We bioinformatically infer 11 lysine-methyltransferases in Giardia, including highly diverged Su(var)3-9, Enhancer-of-zeste and Trithorax proteins with reduced domain architectures, and novel annotations demonstrating conserved methyllysine regulation of eukaryotic elongation factor 1 alpha. Using mass spectrometry, we identify more than 200 methyllysine sites in Giardia, including in species-specific gene families involved in cytoskeletal regulation, enriched in coiled-coil features. Finally, we use known methylation inhibitors to show that methylation plays key roles in replication and cyst formation in this parasite. This study highlights reduced methylation enzymes, sites, and functions early in eukaryote evolution, including absent methylarginine networks in the Diplomonadida. These results challenge the view that arginine methylation is eukaryote conserved and demonstrate that functional compensation of methylarginine was possible preceding expansion and diversification of these key networks in higher eukaryotes.
PXD017642	32703943	Mutations in FAM50A suggest that Armfield XLID syndrome is a spliceosomopathy. 	Interactome analysis of FAM50A via affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry	FAM50A, Streptavidin affinity purification, nanoLC-MS/MS, protein interactions	Intellectual disability (ID) is a heterogeneous clinical entity and includes an excess of males who harbor variants on the X-chromosome (XLID). We report rare FAM50A missense variants in the original Armfield XLID syndrome family localized in Xq28 and four additional unrelated males with overlapping features. Our fam50a knockout (KO) zebrafish model exhibits abnormal neurogenesis and craniofacial patterning, and in vivo complementation assays indicate that the patient-derived variants are hypomorphic. RNA sequencing analysis from fam50a KO zebrafish show dysregulation of the transcriptome, with augmented spliceosome mRNAs and depletion of transcripts involved in neurodevelopment. Zebrafish RNA-seq datasets show a preponderance of 3' alternative splicing events in fam50a KO, suggesting a role in the spliceosome C complex. These data are supported with transcriptomic signatures from cell lines derived from affected individuals and FAM50A protein-protein interaction data. In sum, Armfield XLID syndrome is a spliceosomopathy associated with aberrant mRNA processing during development.
PXD015336	32705285	Proteomic analysis of differentially expressed proteins in the serum of patients with acute renal allograft rejection using iTRAQ labelling technology. 	Proteomic analysis of differentially expressed proteins in the serum of patients with acute renal allograft rejection using iTRAQ labelling technology	acute rejection, iTRAQ, renal allograft, serum	Transplantation is currently the best treatment for patients with end-stage renal disease. However, acute rejection (AR) is the major source of failure in renal transplantation. The current best practice for the diagnosis of AR involves renal biopsy, but it is invasive, time-consuming, costly and inconvenient. Sensitive and less invasive detection of AR episodes in renal transplant patients is essential to preserve allograft function. The present study applied isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) mass spectrometry to analyze serum protein expression in patients with AR and healthy controls. Overall, 1,399 proteins were identified. Using a cut-off of Q<0.05 and a fold change of >1.2 for the variation in expression, 109 proteins were identified to be differentially expressed between the AR and control groups, 72 of which were upregulated and 37 were downregulated. Several proteins, including properdin, keratin 1, lipoprotein(a) and vitamin D-binding protein, may have roles in the pathogenesis of AR. The present study focused on iTRAQ-based proteomic profiling of serum samples in AR. Insight from the present study may help advance the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of AR and identify potential novel biomarkers of AR for further characterization.
PXD018787	32705785	Phasin interactome reveals the interplay of PhaF with the polyhydroxyalkanoate transcriptional regulatory protein PhaD in Pseudomonas putida. 	Identification of phasin PhaF interaction partners and proteomic analysis of polyhydroxyalkanoate granules in Pseudomonas putida	PHA granules, Polyhydroxyalkanoate, Pseudomonas putida, carbonosomes, phasin interactome	Phasin PhaF, a multifunctional protein associated with the surface of polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) granules that also interacts with the nucleoid, contributes significantly to PHA biogenesis in pseudomonads. As a protein present on the surface of PHA granules, PhaF participates in granule stabilization and segregation, whereas its deletion has a notable impact on overall transcriptome, PHA accumulation and cell physiology, suggesting more extensive functions besides solely being a granule structural protein. Here, we followed a systematic approach to detect potential interactions of PhaF with other components of the cell, which could pinpoint unexplored functions of PhaF in the regulation of PHA production. We determined the PhaF interactome in Pseudomonas putida KT2440 via pull-down-mass spectrometry (PD-MS) experiments. PhaF complexed with PHA-related proteins, phasin PhaI and the transcriptional regulator PhaD, interactions that were verified to be direct using in vivo two-hybrid analysis. The determination of the PHA granule proteome showed that PhaI and three other potential PhaF interacting partners, but not PhaD, were granule-associated proteins. Analysis of the interaction of PhaF and PhaD with the phaI promoter by EMSA suggested a new role for PhaF in interacting with PhaD and raises new questions on the regulatory system controlling pha gene expression.
PXD019836	32708184	The Lipid Receptor G2A (GPR132) Mediates Macrophage Migration in Nerve Injury-Induced Neuropathic Pain. 	Proteomics of WT or G2A deficient macrophages with 9-HODE	Macrophages, TMT	Nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain is difficult to treat and mechanistically characterized by strong neuroimmune interactions, involving signaling lipids that act via specific G-protein coupled receptors. Here, we investigated the role of the signaling lipid receptor G2A (GPR132) in nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain using the robust spared nerve injury (SNI) mouse model. We found that the concentrations of the G2A agonist 9-HODE (9-Hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid) are strongly increased at the site of nerve injury during neuropathic pain. Moreover, G2A-deficient mice show a strong reduction of mechanical hypersensitivity after nerve injury. This phenotype is accompanied by a massive reduction of invading macrophages and neutrophils in G2A-deficient mice and a strongly reduced release of the proalgesic mediators TNFalpha, IL-6 and VEGF at the site of injury. Using a global proteome analysis to identify the underlying signaling pathways, we found that G2A activation in macrophages initiates MyD88-PI3K-AKT signaling and transient MMP9 release to trigger cytoskeleton remodeling and migration. We conclude that G2A-deficiency reduces inflammatory responses by decreasing the number of immune cells and the release of proinflammatory cytokines and growth factors at the site of nerve injury. Inhibiting the G2A receptor after nerve injury may reduce immune cell-mediated peripheral sensitization and may thus ameliorate neuropathic pain.
PXD018059	32708775	Proteomic and Bioinformatic Investigations of Heat-Treated Anisakis simplex Third-Stage Larvae. 	Anisakis simplex L3 proteome stability under heat sterilization condition	Anisakis, allergen, autoclaving, heat sterilization, nematode, thermostability	Anisakis simplex third-stage larvae are the main source of hidden allergens in marine fish products. Some Anisakis allergens are thermostable and, even highly processed, could cause hypersensitivity reactions. However, Anisakis proteome has not been studied under autoclaving conditions of 121 degreesC for 60 min, which is an important process in the food industry. The aim of the study was the identification and characterization of allergens, potential allergens, and other proteins of heat-treated A. simplex larvae. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to identify 470 proteins, including allergens-Ani s 1, Ani s 2, Ani s 3, Ani s 4, Ani s 5-and 13 potential allergens that were mainly homologs of Anisakis spp., Ascaris spp., and Acari allergens. Ani s 2, Ani s 3, Ani s 5, and three possible allergens were found among the top 25 most abundant proteins. The computational analysis allowed us to detect allergen epitopes, assign protein families, and domains as well as to annotate the localization of proteins. The predicted 3D models of proteins revealed similarities between potential allergens and homologous allergens. Despite the partial degradation of heated A. simplex antigens, their immunoreactivity with anti-A. simplex IgG antibodies was confirmed using a Western blot. In conclusion, identified epitopes of allergenic peptides highlighted that the occurrence of Anisakis proteins in thermally processed fish products could be a potential allergic hazard. Further studies are necessary to confirm the IgE immunoreactivity and thermostability of identified proteins.
PXD010715	32709677	Molecular Profiling of Innate Immune Response Mechanisms in Ventilator-associated Pneumonia. 	Molecular profiling of innate immune response mechanisms in ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP)	bronchoalveolar lavage, endotracheal aspirates, ventilator associated pneumonia	Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is a common hospital-acquired infection, leading to high morbidity and mortality. Currently, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) is used in hospitals for VAP diagnosis and guiding treatment options. Although BAL collection procedures are invasive, alternatives such as endotracheal aspirates (ETA) may be of diagnostic value, however, their use has not been thoroughly explored. Longitudinal ETA and BAL were collected from 16 intubated patients up to 15 days, of which 11 developed VAP. We conducted a comprehensive LC-MS/MS based proteome and metabolome characterization of longitudinal ETA and BAL to detect host and pathogen responses to VAP infection. We discovered a diverse ETA proteome of the upper airways reflective of a rich and dynamic host-microbe interface. Prior to VAP diagnosis by microbial cultures from BAL, patient ETA presented characteristic signatures of reactive oxygen species and neutrophil degranulation, indicative of neutrophil mediated pathogen processing as a key host response to the VAP infection. Along with an increase in amino acids, this is suggestive of extracellular membrane degradation resulting from proteolytic activity of neutrophil proteases. The metaproteome approach successfully allowed simultaneous detection of pathogen peptides in patients' ETA, which may have potential use in diagnosis. Our findings suggest that ETA may facilitate early mechanistic insights into host-pathogen interactions associated with VAP infection and therefore provide its diagnosis and treatment.
PXD017059	32709972	A carbohydrate-active enzyme (CAZy) profile links successful metabolic specialization of Prevotella to its abundance in gut microbiota. 	Correlation of Prevotella abundancy with a particular carbohydrate-active CAZy enzyme profile in healthy gut microbiota	DIA, metaproteomics	Gut microbiota participates in diverse metabolic and homeostatic functions related to health and well-being. Its composition varies between individuals, and depends on factors related to host and microbial communities, which need to adapt to utilize various nutrients present in gut environment. We profiled fecal microbiota in 63 healthy adult individuals using metaproteomics, and focused on microbial CAZy (carbohydrate-active) enzymes involved in glycan foraging. We identified two distinct CAZy profiles, one with many Bacteroides-derived CAZy in more than one-third of subjects (n = 25), and it associated with high abundance of Bacteroides in most subjects. In a smaller subset of donors (n = 8) with dietary parameters similar to others, microbiota showed intense expression of Prevotella-derived CAZy including exo-beta-(1,4)-xylanase, xylan-1,4-beta-xylosidase, alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase and several other CAZy belonging to glycosyl hydrolase families involved in digestion of complex plant-derived polysaccharides. This associated invariably with high abundance of Prevotella in gut microbiota, while in subjects with lower abundance of Prevotella, microbiota showed no Prevotella-derived CAZy. Identification of Bacteroides- and Prevotella-derived CAZy in microbiota proteome and their association with differences in microbiota composition are in evidence of individual variation in metabolic specialization of gut microbes affecting their colonizing competence.
PXD018418	32710848	Essential Functions of Glycans in Human Epithelia Dissected by a CRISPR-Cas9-Engineered Human Organotypic Skin Model. 	Essential functions of glycans in human epithelia dissected by a CRISPR/Cas9-engineered human  organotypic skin model	Glycoproteomics, Glycosylation, Skin	The glycome undergoes characteristic changes during histogenesis and organogenesis, but our understanding of the importance of select glycan structures for tissue formation and homeostasis is incomplete. Here, we present a human organotypic platform that allows genetic dissection of cellular glycosylation capacities and systematic interrogation of the roles of distinct glycan types in tissue formation. We used CRISPR-Cas9 gene targeting to generate a library of 3D organotypic skin tissues that selectively differ in their capacity to produce glycan structures on the main types of N- and O-linked glycoproteins and glycolipids. This tissue library revealed distinct changes in skin formation associated with a loss of features for all tested glycoconjugates. The organotypic skin model provides phenotypic cues for the distinct functions of glycoconjugates and serves as a unique resource for further genetic dissection and identification of the specific structural features involved. The strategy is also applicable to other organotypic tissue models.
PXD017917	32710983	Functional Analysis of BipA in E. coli Reveals the Natural Plasticity of 50S Subunit Assembly. 	Functional analysis of BipA in E. coli reveals the plasticity of 50S ribosome assembly	GTPase, HflX, TypA, YchF, protein synthesis	BipA is a conserved translational GTPase of bacteria recently implicated in ribosome biogenesis. Here we show that Escherichia coli DeltabipA cells grown at suboptimal temperature accumulate immature large subunit particles missing several proteins. These include L17 and L17-dependent binders, suggesting that structural block 3 of the subunit folds late in the assembly process. Parallel analysis of the control strain revealed accumulation of nearly identical intermediates, albeit at lower levels, suggesting qualitatively similar routes of assembly. This came as a surprise, because earlier analogous studies of wild-type E. coli showed early binding of L17. Further investigation showed that the main path of 50S assembly differs depending on conditions of growth. Either supplementation of the media with lysine and arginine or suboptimal temperature appears to delay block 3 folding, demonstrating the flexible nature of the assembly process. We also show that the variant BipA-H78A fails to rescue phenotypes of the DeltabipA strain, indicating a critical role for GTP hydrolysis in BipA function. In fact, BipA-H78A confers a dominant negative phenotype in wild-type cells. Controlled production of BipA-H78A causes accumulation of 70S monosomes at the expense of polysomes, suggesting that the growth defect stems from a shutdown of translation.
PXD020096	32711166	Revelation of AbfR in regulation of mismatch repair and energy metabolism in S. epidermidis by integrated proteomic and metabolomic analysis. 	Revelation of AbfR in Regulation of Mismatch Repair and Energy Metabolism in S. epidermidis by Integrated Proteomic and Metabolomic Analysis	Staphylococcus epidermidis, TMT10-plex labelling	Staphylococcus epidermidis is a common causative of nosocomial infections associated with indwelling medical devices. To date, the mechanisms of the pathogenicity and drug resistance of S. epidermidis have not been clearly elucidated. AbfR has been previously identified as an oxidation-sensing regulator that regulates bacterial aggregation and biofilm formation by responding to oxidative stress in S. epidermidis; however, the regulatory pathways of AbfR are underexplored. In this study, we investigated the oxidation-sensing regulatory mechanism of AbfR using TMT10-plex labelling quantitative proteomic and untargeted metabolomic approaches. Integrated analysis of two omics datasets indicated that abfR depletion influenced nucleic acid metabolism and activated the DNA mismatch repair pathway. In addition, several energy-related metabolic pathways, including tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, glycolysis, and arginine metabolism, were remarkably impacted by the deletion of abfR. This study revealed the regulatory networks of the transcription factor AbfR from a multi-omics view and demonstrated that AbfR played a broad role in not only mismatch repair but also energy metabolism, enabling S. epidermidis to constantly sense and adapt to environmental stress. SIGNIFICANCE: Staphylococcus epidermidis has emerged as a major nosocomial infection causing pathogen. AbfR, a transcription factor of S. epidermidis, plays an important role in oxidative stress, cell aggregation, and biofilm formation; however, the regulatory mechanism of AbfR is unknown. Using proteomic and metabolomic approaches, this study unveils the global regulatory networks of AbfR, and demonstrates that AbfR not only regulates the DNA mismatch repair pathway by an oxidation sensing mechanism but also affects energy metabolism. This study expands the body of knowledge related to regulatory transcription factors in staphylococci and lays a foundation for future research on clinical infections caused by S. epidermidis.
PXD018658	32711556	Integrated analysis of ultra-deep proteomes in cortex, cerebrospinal fluid and serum reveals a mitochondrial signature in Alzheimer's disease. 	Ultra Deep Mouse cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) profiling in  Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, CSF, biomarker, tandem mass tag	BACKGROUND: Based on amyloid cascade and tau hypotheses, protein biomarkers of different Abeta and tau species in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood/plasma/serum have been examined to correlate with brain pathology. Recently, unbiased proteomic profiling of these human samples has been initiated to identify a large number of novel AD biomarker candidates, but it is challenging to define reliable candidates for subsequent large-scale validation. METHODS: We present a comprehensive strategy to identify biomarker candidates of high confidence by integrating multiple proteomes in AD, including cortex, CSF and serum. The proteomes were analyzed by the multiplexed tandem-mass-tag (TMT) method, extensive liquid chromatography (LC) fractionation and high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) for ultra-deep coverage. A systems biology approach was used to prioritize the most promising AD signature proteins from all proteomic datasets. Finally, candidate biomarkers identified by the MS discovery were validated by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent (ELISA) and TOMAHAQ targeted MS assays. RESULTS: We quantified 13,833, 5941, and 4826 proteins from human cortex, CSF and serum, respectively. Compared to other studies, we analyzed a total of 10 proteomic datasets, covering 17,541 proteins (13,216 genes) in 365 AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and control cases. Our ultra-deep CSF profiling of 20 cases uncovered the majority of previously reported AD biomarker candidates, most of which, however, displayed no statistical significance except SMOC1 and TGFB2. Interestingly, the AD CSF showed evident decrease of a large number of mitochondria proteins that were only detectable in our ultra-deep analysis. Further integration of 4 cortex and 4 CSF cohort proteomes highlighted 6 CSF biomarkers (SMOC1, C1QTNF5, OLFML3, SLIT2, SPON1, and GPNMB) that were consistently identified in at least 2 independent datasets. We also profiled CSF in the 5xFAD mouse model to validate amyloidosis-induced changes, and found consistent mitochondrial decreases (SOD2, PRDX3, ALDH6A1, ETFB, HADHA, and CYB5R3) in both human and mouse samples. In addition, comparison of cortex and serum led to an AD-correlated protein panel of CTHRC1, GFAP and OLFM3. In summary, 37 proteins emerged as potential AD signatures across cortex, CSF and serum, and strikingly, 59% of these were mitochondria proteins, emphasizing mitochondrial dysfunction in AD. Selected biomarker candidates were further validated by ELISA and TOMAHAQ assays. Finally, we prioritized the most promising AD signature proteins including SMOC1, TAU, GFAP, SUCLG2, PRDX3, and NTN1 by integrating all proteomic datasets. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that novel AD biomarker candidates are identified and confirmed by proteomic studies of brain tissue and biofluids, providing a rich resource for large-scale biomarker validation for the AD community.
PXD017438	32711573	miR-200a contributes to the migration of BMSCs induced by the secretions of E. faecalis via FOXJ1/NFkappaB/MMPs axis. 	LC-MS/MS on BMSCs affected by E.faecalis supernatants	BMSCs, E.faecalis, migration	BACKGROUND: Upon migrating to the injured sites, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) play critical roles in the repair of bone lesion caused by chronic apical periodontitis. Emerging evidences have shown that Enterococcus faecalis is always associated with apical periodontitis, especially refractory apical periodontitis. But the mechanism underlying how Enterococcus faecalis affects the migration of BMSCs remains unclear. METHODS: The effects of Enterococcus faecalis supernatants on the migration of BMSCs were determined by transwell migration assays. miRNA sequencing was performed to detect the significantly differentially expressed miRNAs of BMSCs. Proteomics analysis was used to detect the protein expression alterations of BMSCs. Luciferase report assays were deployed to verify the targets of miRNA. Western blot analysis was performed to examine the expressions of matrix metalloproteinases-3, matrix metalloproteinases-9, Forkhead Box Protein J1 (FOXJ1), and nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB). The activations of NFkappaB were detected by luciferase assays with NFkappaBluc reporter. RESULTS: We found that Enterococcus faecalis supernatants could promote the migration of BMSCs. The upregulation of miR-200a-3p in this process contributed to BMSC migration through downregulating its target Forkhead Box Protein J1. Moreover, FOXJ1/ NFkappaB axis was found to regulate matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in this process. CONCLUSIONS: These results above suggest that miR-200a contributes to the migration of BMSCs induced by the secretions of E. faecalis via FOXJ1/NFkappaB/MMPs axis.
PXD016723	32714340	Identification of Sulfenylated Cysteines in Arabidopsis thaliana Proteins Using a Disulfide-Linked Peptide Reporter. 	In situ identification of S-sulfenylation sites in Arabidopsis thaliana using the genetic YAP1 probe	S-sulfenylation, YAP1C, cross-link, cysteine oxidation, disulfide, post-translational modification, redox	In proteins, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) reacts with redox-sensitive cysteines to form cysteine sulfenic acid, also known as S-sulfenylation. These cysteine oxidation events can steer diverse cellular processes by altering protein interactions, trafficking, conformation, and function. Previously, we had identified S-sulfenylated proteins by using a tagged proteinaceous probe based on the yeast AP-1-like (Yap1) transcription factor that specifically reacts with sulfenic acids and traps them through a mixed disulfide bond. However, the identity of the S-sulfenylated amino acid residues within a protein remained enigmatic. By using the same transgenic YAP1C probe, we present here a technological advancement to identify in situ sulfenylated cysteine sites in Arabidopsis thaliana cells under control condition and oxidative stress. Briefly, the total extract of transgenic YAP1C A. thaliana cells was initially purified on IgG-Sepharose beads, followed by a tryptic digest. Then, the mixed disulfide-linked peptides were further enriched at the peptide level on an anti-YAP1C-derived peptide (C598SEIWDR) antibody. Subsequent mass spectrometry analysis with pLink 2 identified 1,745 YAP1C cross-linked peptides, indicating sulfenylated cysteines in over 1,000 proteins. Approximately 55% of these YAP1C-linked cysteines had previously been reported as redox-sensitive cysteines (S-sulfenylation, S-nitrosylation, and reversibly oxidized cysteines). The presented methodology provides a noninvasive approach to identify sulfenylated cysteines in any species that can be genetically modified.
PXD019418	32714345	From Survival to Productivity Mode: Cytokinins Allow Avoiding the Avoidance Strategy Under Stress Conditions. 	From Survival to Productivity Mode: Cytokinins Allow Avoiding the Avoidance Strategy under Stress Conditions	Abiotic stress, Avoidance Cytokinins, senescence, stress tolerance, transgenic plants	Growth retardation and stress-induced premature plant senescence are accompanied by a severe yield reduction and raise a major agro-economic concern. To improve biomass and yield in agricultural crops under mild stress conditions, the survival must be changed to productivity mode. Our previous successful attempts to delay premature senescence and growth inhibition under abiotic stress conditions by autoregulation of cytokinins (CKs) levels constitute a generic technology toward the development of highly productive plants. Since this technology is based on the induction of CKs synthesis during the age-dependent senescence phase by a senescence-specific promoter (SARK), which is not necessarily regulated by abiotic stress conditions, we developed autoregulating transgenic plants expressing the IPT gene specifically under abiotic stress conditions. The Arabidopsis promoter of the stress-induced metallothionein gene (AtMT) was isolated, fused to the IPT gene and transformed into tobacco plants. The MT:IPT transgenic tobacco plants displayed comparable elevated biomass productivity and maintained growth under drought conditions. To decipher the role and the molecular mechanisms of CKs in reverting the survival transcriptional program to a sustainable plant growth program, we performed gene expression analysis of candidate stress-related genes and found unexpectedly clear downregulation in the CK-overproducing plants. We also investigated kinase activity after applying exogenous CKs to tobacco cell suspensions that were grown in salinity stress. In-gel kinase activity analysis demonstrated CK-dependent deactivation of several stress-related kinases including two of the MAPK components, SIPK and WIPK and the NtOSAK, a member of SnRK2 kinase family, a key component of the ABA signaling cascade. A comprehensive phosphoproteomics analysis of tobacco cells, treated with exogenous CKs under salinity-stress conditions indicated that >50% of the identified phosphoproteins involved in stress responses were dephosphorylated by CKs. We hypothesize that upregulation of CK levels under stress conditions desensitize stress signaling cues through deactivation of kinases that are normally activated under stress conditions. CK-dependent desensitization of environmental stimuli is suggested to attenuate various pathways of the avoidance syndrome including the characteristic growth arrest and the premature senescence while allowing normal growth and metabolic maintenance.
PXD018531	32714760	DPAGT1-Mediated Protein N-Glycosylation Is Indispensable for Oocyte and Follicle Development in Mice. 	DPAGT1-Mediated Protein N-Glycosylation Is Indispensable for Oocyte and Follicle Development in Mice	Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Ovary, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Post-translational modification of proteins by N-linked glycosylation is crucial for many life processes. However, the exact contribution of N-glycosylation to mammalian female reproduction remains largely undefined. Here, DPAGT1, the enzyme that catalyzes the first step of protein N-glycosylation, is identified to be indispensable for oocyte development in mice. Dpagt1 missense mutation (c. 497A>G; p. Asp166Gly) causes female subfertility without grossly affecting other functions. Mutant females ovulate fewer eggs owing to defective development of growing follicles. Mutant oocytes have a thin and fragile zona pellucida (ZP) due to the reduction in glycosylation of ZP proteins, and display poor developmental competence after fertilization in vitro. Moreover, completion of the first meiosis is accelerated in mutant oocytes, which is coincident with the elevation of aneuploidy. Mechanistically, transcriptomic analysis reveals the downregulation of a number of transcripts essential for oocyte meiotic progression and preimplantation development (e.g., Pttgt1, Esco2, Orc6, and Npm2) in mutant oocytes, which could account for the defects observed. Furthermore, conditional knockout of Dpagt1 in oocytes recapitulates the phenotypes observed in Dpagt1 mutant females, and causes complete infertility. Taken together, these data indicate that protein N-glycosylation in oocytes is essential for female fertility in mammals by specific control of oocyte development.
PXD016495	32715210	Descriptive Proteome Analysis to Investigate Context-Dependent Treatment Responses to OXPHOS Inhibition in Colon Carcinoma Cells Grown as Monolayer and Multicellular Tumor Spheroids. 	Proteomics on colorectal cancer MCTS upon OXPHOS inhibition	OXPHOS, colon cancer, energy metabolism, spheroids	We have previously identified selective upregulation of the mevalonate pathway genes upon inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in quiescent cancer cells. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we here investigated whether these responses are corroborated on the protein level and whether proteomics could yield unique insights into context-dependent biology. HCT116 colon carcinoma cells were cultured as monolayer cultures, proliferative multicellular tumor spheroids (P-MCTS), or quiescent (Q-MCTS) multicellular tumor spheroids and exposed to OXPHOS inhibitors: nitazoxanide, FCCP, oligomycin, and salinomycin or the HMG-CoA-reductase inhibitor simvastatin at two different doses for 6 and 24 h. Samples were processed using an in-depth bottom-up proteomics workflow resulting in a total of 9286 identified protein groups. Gene set enrichment analysis showed profound differences between the three cell systems and confirmed differential enrichment of hypoxia, OXPHOS, and cell cycle progression-related protein responses in P-MCTS and Q-MCTS. Treatment experiments showed that the observed drug-induced alterations in gene expression of metabolically challenged cells are not translated directly to the protein level, but the results reaffirmed OXPHOS as a selective vulnerability of quiescent cancer cells. This work provides rationale for the use of deep proteome profiling to identify context-dependent treatment responses and encourages further studies investigating metabolic processes that could be co-targeted together with OXPHOS to eradicate quiescent cancer cells.
PXD015326	32716134	MiT/TFE factors control ER-phagy via transcriptional regulation of FAM134B. 	Transcriptional regulation of FAM134B by TFEB/TFE3 controls ER-phagy in response to starvation and chondrocyte differentiation	ER-phagy, TFEB, chondrocyte, lysosome	Lysosomal degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via autophagy (ER-phagy) is emerging as a critical regulator of cell homeostasis and function. The recent identification of ER-phagy receptors has shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlining this process. However, the signaling pathways regulating ER-phagy in response to cellular needs are still largely unknown. We found that the nutrient responsive transcription factors TFEB and TFE3-master regulators of lysosomal biogenesis and autophagy-control ER-phagy by inducing the expression of the ER-phagy receptor FAM134B. The TFEB/TFE3-FAM134B axis promotes ER-phagy activation upon prolonged starvation. In addition, this pathway is activated in chondrocytes by FGF signaling, a critical regulator of skeletal growth. FGF signaling induces JNK-dependent proteasomal degradation of the insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), which in turn inhibits the PI3K-PKB/Akt-mTORC1 pathway and promotes TFEB/TFE3 nuclear translocation and enhances FAM134B transcription. Notably, FAM134B is required for protein secretion in chondrocytes, and cartilage growth and bone mineralization in medaka fish. This study identifies a new signaling pathway that allows ER-phagy to respond to both metabolic and developmental cues.
PXD019220	32719006	Structural and functional studies of Arabidopsis thaliana legumain beta reveal isoform specific mechanisms of activation and substrate recognition. 	AtLEGbeta / gamma protease specificity characterization by PICS	Arabidopsis Legumain Beta Gamma Protease	The vacuolar cysteine protease legumain plays important functions in seed maturation and plant programmed cell death. Because of their dual protease and ligase activity, plant legumains have become of particular biotechnological interest, e.g. for the synthesis of cyclic peptides for drug design or for protein engineering. However, the molecular mechanisms behind their dual protease and ligase activities are still poorly understood, limiting their applications. Here, we present the crystal structure of Arabidopsis thaliana legumain isoform beta (AtLEGbeta) in its zymogen state. Combining structural and biochemical experiments, we show for the first time that plant legumains encode distinct, isoform-specific activation mechanisms. Whereas the autocatalytic activation of isoform gamma (AtLEGgamma) is controlled by the latency-conferring dimer state, the activation of the monomeric AtLEGbeta is concentration independent. Additionally, in AtLEGbeta the plant-characteristic two-chain intermediate state is stabilized by hydrophobic rather than ionic interactions, as in AtLEGgamma, resulting in significantly different pH stability profiles. The crystal structure of AtLEGbeta revealed unrestricted nonprime substrate binding pockets, consistent with the broad substrate specificity, as determined by degradomic assays. Further to its protease activity, we show that AtLEGbeta exhibits a true peptide ligase activity. Whereas cleavage-dependent transpeptidase activity has been reported for other plant legumains, AtLEGbeta is the first example of a plant legumain capable of linking free termini. The discovery of these isoform-specific differences will allow us to identify and rationally design efficient ligases with application in biotechnology and drug development.
PXD019087	32719317	TEX15 is an essential executor of MIWI2-directed transposon DNA methylation and silencing. 	TEX15 is an essential executor of MIWI2-directed transposon DNA methylation and silencing.	Mouse transposon silencing	The PIWI protein MIWI2 and its associated PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) instruct DNA methylation of young active transposable elements (TEs) in the male germline. piRNAs are proposed to recruit MIWI2 to the transcriptionally active TE loci by base pairing to nascent transcripts, however the downstream mechanisms and effector proteins utilized by MIWI2 in directing de novo TE methylation remain incompletely understood. Here, we show that MIWI2 associates with TEX15 in foetal gonocytes. TEX15 is predominantly a nuclear protein that is not required for piRNA biogenesis but is essential for piRNA-directed TE de novo methylation and silencing. In summary, TEX15 is an essential executor of mammalian piRNA-directed DNA methylation.
PXD019338	32719457	Structural basis of CD4 downregulation by HIV-1 Nef. 	NefCD4AP2 Complex Crosslinking with DSSO for Integrative Structure Determination	AP2, CD4, DSSO, HIV-1 Nef, XLMS	The HIV-1 Nef protein suppresses multiple immune surveillance mechanisms to promote viral pathogenesis and is an attractive target for the development of novel therapeutics. A key function of Nef is to remove the CD4 receptor from the cell surface by hijacking clathrin- and adaptor protein complex 2 (AP2)-dependent endocytosis. However, exactly how Nef does this has been elusive. Here, we describe the underlying mechanism as revealed by a 3.0-Aa crystal structure of a fusion protein comprising Nef and the cytoplasmic domain of CD4 bound to the tetrameric AP2 complex. An intricate combination of conformational changes occurs in both Nef and AP2 to enable CD4 binding and downregulation. A pocket on Nef previously identified as crucial for recruiting class I MHC is also responsible for recruiting CD4, revealing a potential approach to inhibit two of Nef's activities and sensitize the virus to immune clearance.
PXD017254	32720192	Discovery of treatment for nerve agents targeting a new metabolic pathway. 	Plasma Biomarkers for VX exposure in guinea pigs	Biomarker, CWA, Guinea Pig, VX	The inhibition of acetylcholinesterase is regarded as the primary toxic mechanism of action for chemical warfare agents. Recently, there have been numerous reports suggesting that metabolic processes could significantly contribute to toxicity. As such, we applied a multi-omics pipeline to generate a detailed cascade of molecular events temporally occurring in guinea pigs exposed to VX. Proteomic and metabolomic profiling resulted in the identification of several enzymes and metabolic precursors involved in glycolysis and the TCA cycle. All lines of experimental evidence indicated that there was a blockade of the TCA cycle at isocitrate dehydrogenase 2, which converts isocitrate to alpha-ketoglutarate. Using a primary beating cardiomyocyte cell model, we were able to determine that the supplementation of alpha-ketoglutarate subsequently rescued cells from the acute effects of VX poisoning. This study highlights the broad impacts that VX has and how understanding these mechanisms could result in new therapeutics such as alpha-ketoglutarate.
PXD015734	32720873	Identification of the Regulatory Components Mediated by the Cyclic di-GMP Receptor Filp and Its Interactor PilZX3 and Functioning in Virulence of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. 	Identification of the key components involving in cyclic di-GMP signaling regulation of virulence that is mediated by the signal receptor Filp and its interactor PilZX3 in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae	Filp and its interactor PilZX3, Regulators, c-di-GMP receptors, iTRAQ	The degenerate GGDEF/EAL domain protein Filp was previously shown to function as a cyclic di-GMP (c-di-GMP) signal receptor through its specific interaction with an atypical PilZ domain protein PilZX3 (formerly PXO_02715) and that this interaction is involved in regulating virulence in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. As a step toward understanding the regulatory role of Filp/PilZX3-mediated c-di-GMP signaling in the virulence of X. oryzae pv. oryzae, differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) downstream of Filp/PilZX3 were identified by isobaric tagging for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ). A total of 2,346 proteins were identified, of which 157 displayed significant differential expression in different strains. Western blot and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analyses showed that the expression of HrrP (histidine kinase-response regulator hybrid protein), PhrP (PhoPQ-regulated protein), ProP (prophage Lp2 protein 6) were increased in the incrementfilp, incrementpilZX3, and incrementfilpincrementpilZX3 mutant strains, while expression of CheW1 (chemotaxis protein CheW1), EdpX2 (the second EAL domain protein identified in X. oryzae pv. oryzae), HGdpX2 (the second HD-GYP domain protein identified in X. oryzae pv. oryzae) was decreased in all mutant strains compared with that in the wild type, which was consistent with the iTRAQ data. Deletion of the hrrP and proP genes resulted in significant increases in virulence, whereas deletion of the cheW1, hGdpX2, or tdrX2 genes resulted in decreased virulence. Enzyme assays indicated that EdpX2 and HGdpX2 were active phosphodiesterases (PDEs). This study provides a proteomic description of putative regulatory pathway of Filp and PilZX3 and characterized novel factors that contributed to the virulence of X. oryzae pv. oryzae regulated by c-di-GMP signaling.
PXD019395	32722151	Atherosclerotic Pre-Conditioning Affects the Paracrine Role of Circulating Angiogenic Cells Ex-Vivo. 	Atherosclerotic environment effect over CAC pre-angiogenic role	Circulating angiogenic cells, angiogenesis, atherosclerotic factors, endothelial colony forming cells, paracrine role, secretome	In atherosclerosis, circulating angiogenic cells (CAC), also known as early endothelial progenitor cells (eEPC), are thought to participate mainly in a paracrine fashion by promoting the recruitment of other cell populations such as late EPC, or endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFC), to the injured areas. There, ECFC replace the damaged endothelium, promoting neovascularization. However, despite their regenerative role, the number and function of EPC are severely affected under pathological conditions, being essential to further understand how these cells react to such environments in order to implement their use in regenerative cell therapies. Herein, we evaluated the effect of direct incubation ex vivo of healthy CAC with the secretome of atherosclerotic arteries. By using a quantitative proteomics approach, 194 altered proteins were identified in the secretome of pre-conditioned CAC, many of them related to inhibition of angiogenesis (e.g., endostatin, thrombospondin-1, fibulins) and cell migration. Functional assays corroborated that healthy CAC released factors enhanced ECFC angiogenesis, but, after atherosclerotic pre-conditioning, the secretome of pre-stimulated CAC negatively affected ECFC migration, as well as their ability to form tubules on a basement membrane matrix assay. Overall, we have shown here, for the first time, the effect of atherosclerotic factors over the paracrine role of CAC ex vivo. The increased release of angiogenic inhibitors by CAC in response to atherosclerotic factors induced an angiogenic switch, by blocking ECFC ability to form tubules in response to pre-conditioned CAC. Thus, we confirmed here that the angiogenic role of CAC is highly affected by the atherosclerotic environment.
PXD013186	32722163	A Lactococcal Phage Protein Promotes Viral Propagation and Alters the Host Proteomic Response During Infection. 	The lactococcal phage p2 protein ORF47 impedes Lactococcus lactis MG1363 resistance to phage infection	Lactococcus lactis, Phage infection, label-free quantification, mass spectrometry-based proteomics	The lactococcal virulent phage p2 is a model for studying the Skunavirus genus, the most prevalent group of phages causing milk fermentation failures in cheese factories worldwide. This siphophage infects Lactococcus lactis MG1363, a model strain used to study Gram-positive lactic acid bacteria. The structural proteins of phage p2 have been thoroughly described, while most of its non-structural proteins remain uncharacterized. Here, we developed an integrative approach, making use of structural biology, genomics, physiology, and proteomics to provide insights into the function of ORF47, the most conserved non-structural protein of unknown function among the Skunavirus genus. This small phage protein, which is composed of three alpha-helices, was found to have a major impact on the bacterial proteome during phage infection and to significantly reduce the emergence of bacteriophage-insensitive mutants.
PXD019193	32723828	Aggresomal sequestration and STUB1-mediated ubiquitylation during mammalian proteaphagy of inhibited proteasomes. 	quantitative proteomic analysis of proteasome in response to MG132	MG132, interactome, proteasome	The 26S proteasome, a self-compartmentalized protease complex, plays a crucial role in protein quality control. Multiple levels of regulatory systems modulate proteasomal activity for substrate hydrolysis. However, the destruction mechanism of mammalian proteasomes is poorly understood. We found that inhibited proteasomes are sequestered into the insoluble aggresome via HDAC6- and dynein-mediated transport. These proteasomes colocalized with the autophagic receptor SQSTM1 and cleared through selective macroautophagy, linking aggresomal segregation to autophagic degradation. This proteaphagic pathway was counterbalanced with the recovery of proteasomal activity and was critical for reducing cellular proteasomal stress. Changes in associated proteins and polyubiquitylation on inhibited 26S proteasomes participated in the targeting mechanism to the aggresome and autophagosome. The STUB1 E3 Ub ligase specifically ubiquitylated purified human proteasomes in vitro, mainly via Lys63-linked chains. Genetic and chemical inhibition of STUB1 activity significantly impaired proteasome processing and reduced resistance to proteasomal stress. These data demonstrate that aggresomal sequestration is the crucial upstream event for proteasome quality control and overall protein homeostasis in mammals.
PXD019887	32723862	Discovery of a heme-binding domain in a neuronal voltage-gated potassium channel. 	A heme-binding domain in a voltage gated porassium channel	EAG channel, Waters Q-Tof, domain, ether-a-go-go, heme	The EAG (ether-a-go-go) family of voltage-gated K(+) channels are important regulators of neuronal and cardiac action potential firing (excitability) and have major roles in human diseases such as epilepsy, schizophrenia, cancer, and sudden cardiac death. A defining feature of EAG (Kv10-12) channels is a highly conserved domain on the N terminus, known as the eag domain, consisting of a Per-ARNT-Sim (PAS) domain capped by a short sequence containing an amphipathic helix (Cap domain). The PAS and Cap domains are both vital for the normal function of EAG channels. Using heme-affinity pulldown assays and proteomics of lysates from primary cortical neurons, we identified that an EAG channel, hERG3 (Kv11.3), binds to heme. In whole-cell electrophysiology experiments, we identified that heme inhibits hERG3 channel activity. In addition, we expressed the Cap and PAS domain of hERG3 in Escherichia coli and, using spectroscopy and kinetics, identified the PAS domain as the location for heme binding. The results identify heme as a regulator of hERG3 channel activity. These observations are discussed in the context of the emerging role for heme as a regulator of ion channel activity in cells.
PXD018935	32724211	Structural analysis of 70S ribosomes by cross-linking/mass spectrometry reveals conformational plasticity. 	Structural Analysis of 70S Ribosomes by Cross-Linking/Mass Spectrometry Reveals Conformational Plasticity	Ribosome, cross-linking mass spectrometry	The ribosome is not only a highly complex molecular machine that translates the genetic information into proteins, but also an exceptional specimen for testing and optimizing cross-linking/mass spectrometry (XL-MS) workflows. Due to its high abundance, ribosomal proteins are frequently identified in proteome-wide XL-MS studies of cells or cell extracts. Here, we performed in-depth cross-linking of the E. coli ribosome using the amine-reactive cross-linker disuccinimidyl diacetic urea (DSAU). We analyzed 143 E. coli ribosomal structures, mapping a total of 10,771 intramolecular distances for 126 cross-link-pairs and 3,405 intermolecular distances for 97 protein pairs. Remarkably, 44% of intermolecular cross-links covered regions that have not been resolved in any high-resolution E. coli ribosome structure and point to a plasticity of cross-linked regions. We systematically characterized all cross-links and discovered flexible regions, conformational changes, and stoichiometric variations in bound ribosomal proteins, and ultimately remodeled 2,057 residues (15,794 atoms) in total. Our working model explains more than 95% of all cross-links, resulting in an optimized E. coli ribosome structure based on the cross-linking data obtained. Our study might serve as benchmark for conducting biochemical experiments on newly modeled protein regions, guided by XL-MS. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018935.
PXD016703	32724472	ATF6 aggravates acinar cell apoptosis and injury by regulating p53/AIFM2 transcription in Severe Acute Pancreatitis. 	Potential ATF6 regulatory proteins were screened by proteomics using pancreatic tissues of PRSS1 transgenic mice treated with caerulein	ATF6, DIA, PRSS1, pancreatitis	Background: There is no curative therapy for severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) due to poor understanding of its molecular mechanisms. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is involved in SAP and increased expression of ATF6 has been detected in SAP patients. Here, we aimed to investigate the role of ATF6 in a preclinical SAP mouse model and characterize its regulatory mechanism. Methods: Pancreatic tissues of healthy and SAP patients were collected during surgery. Humanized PRSS1 transgenic mice were treated with caerulein to mimic the SAP development, which was crossed to an ATF6 knockout mouse line, and pancreatic tissues from the resulting pups were screened by proteomics. Adenovirus-mediated delivery to the pancreas of SAP mice was used for shRNA-based knockdown or overexpression. The potential functions and mechanisms of ATF6 were clarified by immunofluorescence, immunoelectron microscopy, Western blotting, qRT-PCR, ChIP-qPCR and luciferase reporter assay. Results: Increased expression of ATF6 was associated with elevated apoptosis, ER and mitochondrial disorder in pancreatic tissues from SAP patients and PRSS1 mice. Knockout of ATF6 in SAP mice attenuated acinar injury, apoptosis and ER disorder. AIFM2, known as a p53 target gene, was identified as a downstream regulatory partner of ATF6, whose expression was increased in SAP. Functionally, AIFM2 could reestablish the pathological disorder in SAP tissues in the absence of ATF6. p53 expression was also increased in SAP mice, which was downregulated by ATF6 knockout. p53 knockout significantly suppressed acinar apoptosis and injury in SAP model. Mechanistically, ATF6 promoted AIFM2 transcription by binding to p53 and AIFM2 promoters. Conclusion: These results reveal that ATF6/p53/AIFM2 pathway plays a critical role in acinar apoptosis during SAP progression, highlighting novel therapeutic target molecules for SAP.
PXD013951	32726182	Exoproteomic profiling uncovers critical determinants for virulence of livestock-associated and human-originated Staphylococcus aureus ST398 strains. 	Comparative exoproteome and virulence analysis of different clusters ofStaphylococcus aureuswith the Sequence Type ST398	extracellular proteome, label-free quantitative mass spectrometry, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), mobile genetic elements (MGE), virulence	Staphylococcus aureus: with the sequence type (ST) 398 was previously associated with livestock carriage. However, in recent years livestock-independent S. aureus ST398 has emerged, representing a potential health risk for humans especially in nosocomial settings. Judged by whole-genome sequencing analyses, the livestock- and human originated strains belong to two different S. aureus ST398 clades but, to date, it was not known to what extent these clades differ in terms of actual virulence. Therefore, the objective of this study was to profile the exoproteomes of 30 representative S. aureus ST398 strains by mass spectrometry, to assess clade-specific differences in virulence factor secretion, and to correlate the identified proteins and their relative abundance to the strains' actual virulence. Although the human-originated strains are more heterogeneous at the genome level, our observations show that they are more homogeneous in terms of virulence factor production than the livestock-associated strains. To assess differences in virulence, infection models based on larvae of the wax moth Galleria mellonella and the human HeLa cell line were applied. Correlation of the exoproteome data to larval killing and toxicity toward HeLa cells uncovered critical roles of the staphylococcal Sbi, SpA, SCIN and CHIPS proteins in virulence. These findings were validated by showing that sbi or spa mutant bacteria are attenuated in G. mellonella and that the purified SCIN and CHIPS proteins are toxic for HeLa cells. Altogether, we show that exoproteome profiling allows the identification of critical determinants for virulence of livestock-associated and human-originated S. aureus ST398 strains.
PXD006350	32726313	Potential mechanisms of action of celastrol against rheumatoid arthritis: Transcriptomic and proteomic analysis. 	Target proteins of miR-200b in AIPC by label free proteomics	androgen-independent prostate cancer, miR-200b, prostate cancer	The clinical efficacy for treating of celastrol rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has been well-documented, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. Here we explored through what proteins and processes celastrol may act in activated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) from RA patients. Differential expression of genes and proteins after celastrol treatment of FLS was examined using RNA sequencing, label-free relatively quantitative proteomics and molecular docking. In this paper, expression of 26,565 genes and 3,372 proteins was analyzed. Celastrol was associated with significant changes in genes that respond to oxidative stress and oxygen levels, as well as genes that stabilize or synthesize components of the extracellular matrix. These results identify several potential mechanisms through which celastrol may inhibit inflammation in RA.
PXD020137	32726429	Identification of Flucloxacillin-Haptenated HLA-B*57:01 Ligands: Evidence of Antigen Processing and Presentation. 	Naturally processed flucloxacillin haptenated HLA ligands	DILI, Drug hypersensitivity, Flucloxacillin, HLA-B*57:01	Flucloxacillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic associated with a high incidence of drug-induced liver reactions. Although expression of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*57:01 increases susceptibility, little is known of the pathological mechanisms involved in the induction of the clinical phenotype. Irreversible protein modification is suspected to drive the reaction through the modification of peptides that are presented by the risk allele. In this study, the binding of flucloxacillin to immune cells was characterized and the nature of the peptides presented by HLA-B*57:01 was analyzed using mass spectrometric-based immunopeptidomics methods. Flucloxacillin modification of multiple proteins was observed, providing a potential source of neoantigens for HLA presentation. Of the peptides eluted from flucloxacillin-treated C1R-B*57:01 cells, 6 putative peptides were annotated as flucloxacillin-modified HLA-B*57:01 peptide ligands (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020137). To conclude, we have characterized naturally processed drug-haptenated HLA ligands presented on the surface of antigen presenting cells that may drive drug-specific CD8+ T-cell responses.
PXD017163	32726614	Mitochondria and Peroxisome Remodeling across Cytomegalovirus Infection Time Viewed through the Lens of Inter-ViSTA. 	Organelle remodeling across infection time: Cytomegalovirus-host protein interactions viewed through the lens of Inter-ViSTA	AP-MS, HCMV, PPI, UL37, pUL37x1	Nearly all biological processes rely on the finely tuned coordination of protein interactions across cellular space and time. Accordingly, generating protein interactomes has become routine in biological studies, yet interpreting these datasets remains computationally challenging. Here, we introduce Inter-ViSTA (Interaction Visualization in Space and Time Analysis), a web-based platform that quickly builds animated protein interaction networks and automatically synthesizes information on protein abundances, functions, complexes, and subcellular localizations. Using Inter-ViSTA with proteomics and molecular virology, we define virus-host interactions for the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) anti-apoptotic protein, pUL37x1. We find that spatiotemporal controlled interactions underlie pUL37x1 functions, facilitating the pro-viral remodeling of mitochondria and peroxisomes during infection. Reciprocal isolations, microscopy, and genetic manipulations further characterize these associations, revealing the interplay between pUL37x1 and the MIB complex, which is critical for mitochondrial integrity. At the peroxisome, we show that pUL37x1 activates PEX11beta to regulate fission, a key aspect of virus assembly and spread.
PXD013122	32726622	PTPN2 Deficiency Enhances Programmed T Cell Expansion and Survival Capacity of Activated T Cells. 	Tyrosine-protein phophatase non-receptor type 2 (PTPN2) deficiency increases short-lived effector T-cell survival and augments autonomous proliferation of T-cells	MS3, PTPN2, T-cells, TMT, phosphoproteomics	Manipulating molecules that impact T cell receptor (TCR) or cytokine signaling, such as the protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 2 (PTPN2), has significant potential for advancing T cell-based immunotherapies. Nonetheless, it remains unclear how PTPN2 impacts the activation, survival, and memory formation of T cells. We find that PTPN2 deficiency renders cells in vivo and in vitro less dependent on survival-promoting cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-15. Remarkably, briefly ex vivo-activated PTPN2-deficient T cells accumulate in 3- to 11-fold higher numbers following transfer into unmanipulated, antigen-free mice. Moreover, the absence of PTPN2 augments the survival of short-lived effector T cells and allows them to robustly re-expand upon secondary challenge. Importantly, we find no evidence for impaired effector function or memory formation. Mechanistically, PTPN2 deficiency causes broad changes in the expression and phosphorylation of T cell expansion and survival-associated proteins. Altogether, our data underline the therapeutic potential of targeting PTPN2 in T cell-based therapies to augment the number and survival capacity of antigen-specific T cells.
PXD020653	32726802	A vaccine targeting the RBD of the S protein of SARS-CoV-2 induces protective immunity. 	A Recombinant Vaccine Targeting Receptor-binding Domain of SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein Induces Protective Immunity in Mice and Non-human Primates	COVID 19, SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein, Vaccine	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes a respiratory disease called coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the spread of which has led to a pandemic. An effective preventive vaccine against this virus is urgently needed. As an essential step during infection, SARS-CoV-2 uses the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein to engage with the receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) on host cells(1,2). Here we show that a recombinant vaccine that comprises residues 319-545 of the RBD of the spike protein induces a potent functional antibody response in immunized mice, rabbits and non-human primates (Macaca mulatta) as early as 7 or 14 days after the injection of a single vaccine dose. The sera from the immunized animals blocked the binding of the RBD to ACE2, which is expressed on the cell surface, and neutralized infection with a SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus and live SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. Notably, vaccination also provided protection in non-human primates to an in vivo challenge with SARS-CoV-2. We found increased levels of RBD-specific antibodies in the sera of patients with COVID-19. We show that several immune pathways and CD4 T lymphocytes are involved in the induction of the vaccine antibody response. Our findings highlight the importance of the RBD domain in the design of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines and provide a rationale for the development of a protective vaccine through the induction of antibodies against the RBD domain.
PXD018983	32726803	Papain-like protease regulates SARS-CoV-2 viral spread and innate immunity. 	Coronavirus PLPro interactome AP-MS data	AP-MS, Covid-19, ISGylation, PLPro, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2	The papain-like protease PLpro is an essential coronavirus enzyme that is required for processing viral polyproteins to generate a functional replicase complex and enable viral spread(1,2). PLpro is also implicated in cleaving proteinaceous post-translational modifications on host proteins as an evasion mechanism against host antiviral immune responses(3-5). Here we perform biochemical, structural and functional characterization of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) PLpro (SCoV2-PLpro) and outline differences with SARS-CoV PLpro (SCoV-PLpro) in regulation of host interferon and NF-kappaB pathways. SCoV2-PLpro and SCoV-PLpro share 83% sequence identity but exhibit different host substrate preferences; SCoV2-PLpro preferentially cleaves the ubiquitin-like interferon-stimulated gene 15 protein (ISG15), whereas SCoV-PLpro predominantly targets ubiquitin chains. The crystal structure of SCoV2-PLpro in complex with ISG15 reveals distinctive interactions with the amino-terminal ubiquitin-like domain of ISG15, highlighting the high affinity and specificity of these interactions. Furthermore, upon infection, SCoV2-PLpro contributes to the cleavage of ISG15 from interferon responsive factor 3 (IRF3) and attenuates type I interferon responses. Notably, inhibition of SCoV2-PLpro with GRL-0617 impairs the virus-induced cytopathogenic effect, maintains the antiviral interferon pathway and reduces viral replication in infected cells. These results highlight a potential dual therapeutic strategy in which targeting of SCoV2-PLpro can suppress SARS-CoV-2 infection and promote antiviral immunity.
PXD018843	32727081	Protamine-2 Deficiency Initiates a Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS)-Mediated Destruction Cascade during Epididymal Sperm Maturation in Mice. 	Prm2 deficiency triggers a Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS)-mediated destruction cascade during epididymal sperm maturation in mice	Epididymal Sperm, LC-MS, Male, Protamine2 deficient	Protamines are the safeguards of the paternal sperm genome. They replace most of the histones during spermiogenesis, resulting in DNA hypercondensation, thereby protecting its genome from environmental noxa. Impaired protamination has been linked to male infertility in mice and humans in many studies. Apart from impaired DNA integrity, protamine-deficient human and murine sperm show multiple secondary effects, including decreased motility and aberrant head morphology. In this study, we use a Protamine-2 (Prm2)-deficient mouse model in combination with label-free quantitative proteomics to decipher the underlying molecular processes of these effects. We show that loss of the sperm's antioxidant capacity, indicated by downregulation of key proteins like Superoxide dismutase type 1 (SOD1) and Peroxiredoxin 5 (PRDX5), ultimately initiates an oxidative stress-mediated destruction cascade during epididymal sperm maturation. This is confirmed by an increased level of 8-OHdG in epididymal sperm, a biomarker for oxidative stress-mediated DNA damage. Prm2-deficient testicular sperm are not affected and initiate the proper development of blastocyst stage preimplantation embryos in vitro upon intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) into oocytes. Our results provide new insight into the role of Prm2 and its downstream molecular effects on sperm function and present an important contribution to the investigation of new treatment regimens for infertile men with impaired protamination.
PXD015485	32727735	Combined Proteomic and Genetic Interaction Mapping Reveals New RAS Effector Pathways and Susceptibilities. 	Protein-Protein Interactions Maps of the KRAS Pathway in HEK293 and A549 cells	AP/MS, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), GTPase, Human Proteome Project, KRAS, Protein-protein interaction, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cancer, lung adenocarcinoma	Activating mutations in RAS GTPases drive many cancers, but limited understanding of less-studied RAS interactors, and of the specific roles of different RAS interactor paralogs, continues to limit target discovery. We developed a multistage discovery and screening process to systematically identify genes conferring RAS-related susceptibilities in lung adenocarcinoma. Using affinity purification mass spectrometry, we generated a protein-protein interaction map of RAS interactors and pathway components containing hundreds of interactions. From this network, we constructed a CRISPR dual knockout library targeting 119 RAS-related genes that we screened for KRAS-dependent genetic interactions (GI). This approach identified new RAS effectors, including the adhesion controller RADIL and the endocytosis regulator RIN1, and >250 synthetic lethal GIs, including a potent KRAS-dependent interaction between RAP1GDS1 and RHOA. Many GIs link specific paralogs within and between gene families. These findings illustrate the power of multiomic approaches to uncover synthetic lethal combinations specific for hitherto untreatable cancer genotypes. SIGNIFICANCE: We establish a deep network of protein-protein and genetic interactions in the RAS pathway. Many interactions validated here demonstrate important specificities and redundancies among paralogous RAS regulators and effectors. By comparing synthetic lethal interactions across KRAS-dependent and KRAS-independent cell lines, we identify several new combination therapy targets for RAS-driven cancers.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1775.
PXD016312	32727915	Activation of NRF2 ameliorates oxidative stress and cystogenesis in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. 	Nrf2-mediated enhancer activation via phase separation ameliorates oxidative stress and cystogenesis in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease	ADPKD, kidney	Oxidative stress is emerging as a crucial contributor to the pathogenesis of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), but the molecular mechanisms underlying the disturbed redox homeostasis in cystic cells remain elusive. Here, we identified the impaired activity of the NRF2 (nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2) antioxidant pathway as a driver of oxidative damage and ADPKD progression. Using a quantitative proteomic approach, together with biochemical analyses, we found that increased degradation of NRF2 protein suppressed the NRF2 antioxidant pathway in ADPKD mouse kidneys. In a cohort of patients with ADPKD, reactive oxygen species (ROS) frequently accumulated, and their production correlated negatively with NRF2 abundance and positively with disease severity. In an orthologous ADPKD mouse model, genetic deletion of Nrf2 further increased ROS generation and promoted cyst growth, whereas pharmacological induction of NRF2 reduced ROS production and slowed cystogenesis and disease progression. Mechanistically, pharmacological induction of NRF2 remodeled enhancer landscapes and activated NRF2-bound enhancer-associated genes in ADPKD cells. The activation domain of NRF2 formed phase-separated condensates with MEDIATOR complex subunit MED16 in vitro, and optimal Mediator recruitment to genomic loci depended on NRF2 in vivo. Together, these findings indicate that NRF2 remodels enhancer landscapes and activates its target genes through a phase separation mechanism and that activation of NRF2 represents a promising strategy for restoring redox homeostasis and combatting ADPKD.
PXD018157	32728863	Determination of neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor antagonist BIBP 3226 and evaluation of receptor expression based on liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry. 	Determination of neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor antagonist BIBP 3226 and evaluation of receptor expression based on liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry	BIBP 3226, Neuropeptide Y, Receptor expression, Y1 receptor antagonist	Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a peptide widely distributed throughout the body that is involved in various physiological processes, including the regulation of feeding behavior and energy homeostasis. 5-Carbamimidamido-2-(2,2-diphenylacetamido)-N-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)methyl]pentanamide (BIBP 3226) is a selective NPY Y1 receptor antagonist with recognized application in bone regeneration studies, requiring quantification at picogram levels. Hence, BIBP 3226 determination is proposed here by a validated HPLC-MS/MS method, based on a reversed-phase Kinetex(R) core-shell C8 column (2.6 mum, 150 x 2.1 mm) at 30 degreesC, elution in isocratic mode using a mixture of acetonitrile and water (30:70, v/v), containing 0.1% (v/v) formic acid, at 0.25 mL min(-1), detection in positive ionization mode, and data acquisition in selected reaction monitoring mode. Calibration curves were linear for concentrations ranging from 0.25 to 30 ng mL(-1) with LOD and LOQ values as low as 0.1 and 0.3 pg in cell extracts and 16 and 48 pg in supernatant culture media, respectively. BIBP 3226 was successfully determined in cell extracts and supernatants obtained from internalization assays. Using similar exposure conditions, the amount of BIBP 3226 found in breast cancer cells (MCF7) was 72 to 657 times higher than that found in bone marrow cells (Wt C57BL/6 mice), providing an indirect indicator of NPY Y1 receptor expression.
PXD049322	32730809	An Activity-Guided Map of Electrophile-Cysteine Interactions in Primary Human T Cells. 	An Activity-Guided Map of Electrophile-Cysteine Interactions in Primary Human T Cells	BIRC3, ITK, activity-based protein profiling, chemical proteomics, covalent electrophiles, cysteine, human T cells, protein degradation	Electrophilic compounds originating from nature or chemical synthesis have profound effects on immune cells. These compounds are thought to act by cysteine modification to alter the functions of immune-relevant proteins; however, our understanding of electrophile-sensitive cysteines in the human immune proteome remains limited. Here, we present a global map of cysteines in primary human T cells that are susceptible to covalent modification by electrophilic small molecules. More than 3,000 covalently liganded cysteines were found on functionally and structurally diverse proteins, including many that play fundamental roles in immunology. We further show that electrophilic compounds can impair T cell activation by distinct mechanisms involving the direct functional perturbation and/or degradation of proteins. Our findings reveal a rich content of ligandable cysteines in human T cells and point to electrophilic small molecules as a fertile source for chemical probes and ultimately therapeutics that modulate immunological processes and their associated disorders.
PXD018457	32732250	Verification of a Blood-Based Targeted Proteomics Signature for Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma. 	Malignant pleural mesothelioma targeted proteomics signature from blood	SRM, asbestos exposed, mesothelioma	BACKGROUND: We have verified a mass spectrometry (MS)-based targeted proteomics signature for the detection of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) from the blood. METHODS: A seven-peptide biomarker MPM signature by targeted proteomics in serum was identified in a previous independent study. Here, we have verified the predictive accuracy of a reduced version of that signature, now composed of six-peptide biomarkers. We have applied liquid chromatography-selected reaction monitoring (LC-SRM), also known as multiple-reaction monitoring (MRM), for the investigation of 402 serum samples from 213 patients with MPM and 189 cancer-free asbestos-exposed donors from the United States, Australia, and Europe. RESULTS: Each of the biomarkers composing the signature was independently informative, with no apparent functional or physical relation to each other. The multiplexing possibility offered by MS proteomics allowed their integration into a single signature with a higher discriminating capacity than that of the single biomarkers alone. The strategy allowed in this way to increase their potential utility for clinical decisions. The signature discriminated patients with MPM and asbestos-exposed donors with AUC of 0.738. For early-stage MPM, AUC was 0.765. This signature was also prognostic, and Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a significant difference between high- and low-risk groups with an HR of 1.659 (95% CI, 1.075-2.562; P = 0.021). CONCLUSIONS: Targeted proteomics allowed the development of a multianalyte signature with diagnostic and prognostic potential for MPM from the blood. IMPACT: The proteomic signature represents an additional diagnostic approach for informing clinical decisions for patients at risk for MPM.
PXD019946	32732922	Autophagy deficiency promotes triple-negative breast cancer resistance to T cell-mediated cytotoxicity by blocking tenascin-C degradation. 	Autophagy Deficiency Promotes Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Resistance to T Cell-Mediated Cytotoxicity by Blocking Tenascin-C Degradation	T cell-mediated killing, TNBC, Tenascin-C, autophagy deficiency, immune checkpoint inhibitors	Most triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients fail to respond to T cell-mediated immunotherapies. Unfortunately, the molecular determinants are still poorly understood. Breast cancer is the disease genetically linked to a deficiency in autophagy. Here, we show that autophagy defects in TNBC cells inhibit T cell-mediated tumour killing in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we identify Tenascin-C as a candidate for autophagy deficiency-mediated immunosuppression, in which Tenascin-C is Lys63-ubiquitinated by Skp2, particularly at Lys942 and Lys1882, thus promoting its recognition by p62 and leading to its selective autophagic degradation. High Tenascin-C expression is associated with poor prognosis and inversely correlated with LC3B expression and CD8(+) T cells in TNBC patients. More importantly, inhibition of Tenascin-C in autophagy-impaired TNBC cells sensitizes T cell-mediated tumour killing and improves antitumour effects of single anti-PD1/PDL1 therapy. Our results provide a potential strategy for targeting TNBC with the combination of Tenascin-C blockade and immune checkpoint inhibitors.
PXD015912	32732981	Strategies to enable large-scale proteomics for reproducible research. 	Strategies to enable large-scale proteomics for reproducible research.	DIA, ProCan, Reproducibility, SWATH	Reproducible research is the bedrock of experimental science. To enable the deployment of large-scale proteomics, we assess the reproducibility of mass spectrometry (MS) over time and across instruments and develop computational methods for improving quantitative accuracy. We perform 1560 data independent acquisition (DIA)-MS runs of eight samples containing known proportions of ovarian and prostate cancer tissue and yeast, or control HEK293T cells. Replicates are run on six mass spectrometers operating continuously with varying maintenance schedules over four months, interspersed with ~5000 other runs. We utilise negative controls and replicates to remove unwanted variation and enhance biological signal, outperforming existing methods. We also design a method for reducing missing values. Integrating these computational modules into a pipeline (ProNorM), we mitigate variation among instruments over time and accurately predict tissue proportions. We demonstrate how to improve the quantitative analysis of large-scale DIA-MS data, providing a pathway toward clinical proteomics.
PXD021388	32733106	Detection of SARS-CoV-2 in nasal swabs using MALDI-MS. 	Detection of SARS-CoV-2 in nasal swabs using MALDI-MS	COVID-19, Covid-19, MALDI-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-Cov-2	Detection of SARS-CoV-2 using RT-PCR and other advanced methods can achieve high accuracy. However, their application is limited in countries that lack sufficient resources to handle large-scale testing during the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, we describe a method to detect SARS-CoV-2 in nasal swabs using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) and machine learning analysis. This approach uses equipment and expertise commonly found in clinical laboratories in developing countries. We obtained mass spectra from a total of 362 samples (211 SARS-CoV-2-positive and 151 negative by RT-PCR) without prior sample preparation from three different laboratories. We tested two feature selection methods and six machine learning approaches to identify the top performing analysis approaches and determine the accuracy of SARS-CoV-2 detection. The support vector machine model provided the highest accuracy (93.9%), with 7% false positives and 5% false negatives. Our results suggest that MALDI-MS and machine learning analysis can be used to reliably detect SARS-CoV-2 in nasal swab samples.
PXD016202	32733400	The Regulator PltZ Regulates a Putative ABC Transporter System PltIJKNOP of Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 in Response to the Antimicrobial 2,4-Diacetylphloroglucinol. 	The regulator PltZ senses exogenous2,4-DAPG and regulate a novel multidrug resistant pump in involved in Pseudomonas aeruginosaATCC27853	2, 4-DAPG, PltZ, Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen commonly infecting immunocompromised patients with diseases like cystic fibrosis (CF) and cancers and has high rates of recurrence and mortality. The treatment efficacy can be significantly worsened by the multidrug resistance (MDR) of P. aeruginosa, and there is increasing evidence showing that it is easy for this pathogen to develop MDR. Here, we identified a gene cluster, pltZ-pltIJKNOP, which was originally assumed to be involved in the biosynthesis of an antimicrobial pyoluteorin, significantly contributing to the antibiotic resistance of P. aeruginosa ATCC 27853. Moreover, the TetR family regulator PltZ binds to a semi-palindromic sequence in the promoter region of the pltIJKNOP operon and recognizes the antimicrobial 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (2,4-DAPG), which in turn induces the expression of the pltIJKNOP operon. Using quantitative proteomics method, it was indicated that the regulator PltZ also plays an important role in maintaining metabolic hemostasis by regulating the transporting systems of amino acids, glucose, metal ions, and bacteriocins.
PXD019474	32733525	Resilient and Sensitive Key Points of the Photosynthetic Machinery of Coffea spp. to the Single and Superimposed Exposure to Severe Drought and Heat Stresses. 	Proteomic analyses of coffea arabica subjected to various conditions	coffea, plant, proteome dynamics, stress	This study unveils the single and combined drought and heat impacts on the photosynthetic performance of Coffea arabica cv. Icatu and C. canephora cv. Conilon Clone 153 (CL153). Well-watered (WW) potted plants were gradually submitted to severe water deficit (SWD) along 20 days under adequate temperature (25/20degreesC, day/night), and thereafter exposed to a gradual temperature rise up to 42/30degreesC, followed by a 14-day water and temperature recovery. Single drought affected all gas exchanges (including Amax ) and most fluorescence parameters in both genotypes. However, Icatu maintained Fv/Fm and RuBisCO activity, and reinforced electron transport rates, carrier contents, and proton gradient regulation (PGR5) and chloroplast NADH dehydrogenase-like (NDH) complex proteins abundance. This suggested negligible non-stomatal limitations of photosynthesis that were accompanied by a triggering of protective cyclic electron transport (CEF) involving both photosystems (PSs). These findings contrasted with declines in RuBisCO and PSs activities, and cytochromes (b559 , f, b563 ) contents in CL153. Remarkable heat tolerance in potential photosynthetic functioning was detected in WW plants of both genotypes (up to 37/28degreesC or 39/30degreesC), likely associated with CEF in Icatu. Yet, at 42/30degreesC the tolerance limit was exceeded. Reduced Amax and increased Ci values reflected non-stomatal limitations of photosynthesis, agreeing with impairments in energy capture (F0 rise), PSII photochemical efficiency, and RuBisCO and Ru5PK activities. In contrast to PSs activities and electron carrier contents, enzyme activities were highly heat sensitive. Until 37/28degreesC, stresses interaction was largely absent, and drought played the major role in constraining photosynthesis functioning. Harsher conditions (SWD, 42/30degreesC) exacerbated impairments to PSs, enzymes, and electron carriers, but uncontrolled energy dissipation was mitigated by photoprotective mechanisms. Most parameters recovered fully between 4 and 14 days after stress relief in both genotypes, although some aftereffects persisted in SWD plants. Icatu was more drought tolerant, with WW and SWD plants usually showing a faster and/or greater recovery than CL153. Heat affected both genotypes mostly at 42/30degreesC, especially in SWD and Icatu plants. Overall, photochemical components were highly tolerant to heat and to stress interaction in contrast to enzymes that deserve special attention by breeding programs to increase coffee sustainability in climate change scenarios.
PXD019076	32733541	Quantitative Proteomic Profiling of Mitochondrial Toxicants in a Human Cardiomyocyte Cell Line. 	Quantitative proteomic profiling of mitochondrial toxicants in human cardiomyocyte cell line	FCCP, Mitochondrial toxicant, dinoterb, global proteomic profiling, pathway enrichment analysis, picoxystrobin, pinacyanol, triclocarban	Mitochondria are essential cellular organelles that participate in important cellular processes, including bioenergetics, metabolism, and signaling. Recent functional and proteomic studies have revealed the remarkable complexity of mitochondrial protein organization. Mitochondrial protein machineries with diverse functions such as protein translocation, respiration, metabolite transport, protein quality control and the control of membrane architecture interact with each other in dynamic networks. The goal of this study was to identify protein expression changes in a human cardiomyocyte cell line treated with several mitochondrial toxicants which inhibit mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and mitochondrial respiration. AC16 human cardiomyocyte cells were treated with carbonyl cyanide p-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone (FCCP), dinoterb, picoxystrobin, pinacyanol, and triclocarban for 18 h around the IC50 values generated from MMP assay. The samples were harvested and labeled with tandem mass tags with different mass isotopes. Peptide assignment was performed in Proteome Discoverer. Each dataset was analyzed in Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). In the proteomic profile, these compounds showed dysregulation of a group of mitochondrial proteins (e.g., NDUA, NDUB, BCS1, CYB5B, and SDHF2), as well as proteins involved in lipid metabolism (e.g., CPT, MECR, and LPGAT1), cytoskeleton protein changes (e.g., CROCC, LAMC3, FBLN1, and FMN2) and stress response (e.g., IKBKG, IKBB, SYVN1, SOD2, and CPIN1). Proteomic data from the current study provides key insights into chemical induced cellular pathway dysregulation, supporting the use of proteomic profiling as a sensitive method to further explore molecular functions and disease pathogenesis upon exposure to environmental chemicals.
PXD019561	32733891	Endothelial-Derived Interleukin-1alpha Activates Innate Immunity by Promoting the Bactericidal Activity of Transendothelial Neutrophils. 	Rat intestinal epithelial cells, LC-MS/MS	Rat epithelial cells iTRAQ	Migration of neutrophils across endothelial barriers to capture and eliminate bacteria is served as the first line of innate immunity. Bacterial virulence factors damage endothelium to produce inflammatory cytokines interacts with neutrophils. However, the mechanisms that behind endothelial-neutrophil interaction impact on the bactericidal activity remain unclear. Therefore, we aimed to find the target proteins on endothelial cells that triggered the bactericidal activity of transendothelial neutrophils. Herein, we built the infected models on rats and endothelial-neutrophil co-cultural system (Transwell) and discovered that endothelial-derived IL-1alpha promoted the survival of rats under Escherichia coli infection and enhanced the bactericidal activity of transendothelial neutrophils in vivo and in vitro. Results further showed that IL-1alpha was inhibited by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the endothelial-neutrophil interaction. We found that LPS mainly damaged cell membrane and induced cell necrosis to interrupt neutrophil migration from endothelial barrier. Thus, we used the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) method to identify different proteins of endothelial cells. Results showed that IL-1alpha targeted cellular plasma membrane, endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial envelope and triggered eleven common proteins to persistently regulate. During the early phase, IL-1alpha triggered the upregulation of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) to promote neutrophil adhesion, while oxidative phosphorylation was involved in long time regulation to induce transmigration of neutrophils against bacteria. Our results highlight the critical mechanism of endothelial-derived IL-1alpha on promoting bactericidal activity of transendothelial neutrophils and the findings of IL-1alpha triggered proteins provide the potentially important targets on the regulation of innate immunity.
PXD019454	32736136	Plasmodium berghei LAPs form an extended protein complex that facilitates crystalloid targeting and biogenesis. 	Plasmodium berghei LAPs form an extended protein complex that facilitates crystalloid targeting and biogenesis	LAPs, Plasmodium, crystalloid, malaria	Passage of malaria parasites through mosquitoes involves multiple developmental transitions, from gametocytes that are ingested with the blood meal, through to sporozoites that are transmitted by insect bite to the host. During the transformation from gametocyte to oocyst, the parasite forms a unique transient organelle named the crystalloid, which is involved in sporozoite formation. In Plasmodium berghei, a complex of six LCCL domain-containing proteins (LAPs) reside in the crystalloid and are required for its biogenesis. However, little else is known about the molecular mechanisms that underlie the crystalloid's role in sporogony. In this study, we have used transgenic parasites stably expressing LAP3 fused to GFP, combined with GFP affinity pulldown and high accuracy mass spectrometry, to identify an extended LAP interactome of some fifty proteins. We show that many of these are targeted to the crystalloid, including members of two protein families with CPW-WPC and pleckstrin homology-like domains, respectively. Our findings indicate that the LAPs are part of an intricate protein complex, the formation of which facilitates both crystalloid targeting and biogenesis. SIGNIFICANCE: Reducing malaria parasite transmission by mosquitoes is a key component of malaria eradication and control strategies. This study sheds important new light on the molecular composition of the crystalloid, an enigmatic parasite organelle that is essential for sporozoite formation and transmission from the insect to the vertebrate host. Our findings provide new mechanistic insight into how proteins are delivered to the crystalloid, and indicate that the molecular mechanisms that underlie crystalloid function are complex, involving several protein families unique to Plasmodium and closely related organisms. The new crystalloid proteins identified will form a useful starting point for studies aimed at unravelling how the crystalloid organelle facilitates sporogony and transmission.
PXD013855	32736380	Constructing and deconstructing GATA2-regulated cell fate programs to establish developmental trajectories. 	Role of GATA-2 -77 enhancer in murine blood progenitor cells	deep analysis, label-free proteomics, primary tissue, targeted proteomics	Stem and progenitor cell fate transitions constitute key decision points in organismal development that enable access to a developmental path or actively preclude others. Using the hematopoietic system, we analyzed the relative importance of cell fate-promoting mechanisms versus negating fate-suppressing mechanisms to engineer progenitor cells with multilineage differentiation potential. Deletion of the murine Gata2-77 enhancer, with a human equivalent that causes leukemia, downregulates the transcription factor GATA2 and blocks progenitor differentiation into erythrocytes, megakaryocytes, basophils, and granulocytes, but not macrophages. Using multiomics and single-cell analyses, we demonstrated that the enhancer orchestrates a balance between pro- and anti-fate circuitry in single cells. By increasing GATA2 expression, the enhancer instigates a fate-promoting mechanism while abrogating an innate immunity-linked, fate-suppressing mechanism. During embryogenesis, the suppressing mechanism dominated in enhancer mutant progenitors, thus yielding progenitors with a predominant monocytic differentiation potential. Coordinating fate-promoting and -suppressing circuits therefore averts deconstruction of a multifate system into a monopotent system and maintains critical progenitor heterogeneity and functionality.
PXD056130	32737118	ANXA1 Binds and Stabilizes EphA2 to Promote Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Growth and Metastasis. 	ANXA1 binds and stabilizes EGFR to promote nasopharyngeal carcinoma radioresistance	ANXA1, EGFR, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, radioresistance, stability	Overexpression of ANXA1 and EphA2 has been linked to various cancers and both proteins have attracted considerable attention for the development of new anticancer drugs. Here we report that ANXA1 competes with Cbl for binding EphA2 and increases its stability by inhibiting Cbl-mediated EphA2 ubiquitination and degradation in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Binding of ANXA1 to EphA2 promoted NPC cell growth and metastasis in vitro and in vivo by elevating EphA2 levels and increasing activity of EphA2 oncogenic signaling (pS897-EphA2). Expression of ANXA1 and EphA2 was positively correlated and both were significantly higher in NPC tissues than in the normal nasopharyngeal epithelial tissues. Patients with high expression of both proteins presented poorer disease-free survival and overall survival relative to patients with high expression of one protein alone. Furthermore, amino acid residues 20-30aa and 28-30aa of the ANXA1 N-terminus bound EphA2. An 11 amino acid-long ANXA1-derived peptide (EYVQTVKSSKG) was developed on the basis of this N-terminal region, which disrupted the connection of ANXA1 with EphA2, successfully downregulating EphA2 expression and dramatically suppressing NPC cell oncogenicity in vitro and in mice. These findings suggest that ANXA1 promotes NPC growth and metastasis via binding and stabilization of EphA2 and present a strategy for targeting EphA2 degradation and treating NPC with a peptide. This therapeutic strategy may also be extended to other cancers with high expression of both proteins. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings show that EphA2 is a potential target for NPC therapeutics and an ANXA1-derived peptide suppresses NPC growth and metastasis. GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/canres/80/20/4386/F1.large.jpg.
PXD016629	32737144	LIM-Nebulette Reinforces Podocyte Structural Integrity by Linking Actin and Vimentin Filaments. 	Nebulette reinforces podocyte structural integrity by linking actin and vimentin filaments	F-actin, nebulette, nephropathy, podocytes	BACKGROUND: Maintenance of the intricate interdigitating morphology of podocytes is crucial for glomerular filtration. One of the key aspects of specialized podocyte morphology is the segregation and organization of distinct cytoskeletal filaments into different subcellular components, for which the exact mechanisms remain poorly understood. METHODS: Cells from rats, mice, and humans were used to describe the cytoskeletal configuration underlying podocyte structure. Screening the time-dependent proteomic changes in the rat puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephropathy model correlated the actin-binding protein LIM-nebulette strongly with glomerular function. Single-cell RNA sequencing and immunogold labeling were used to determine Nebl expression specificity in podocytes. Automated high-content imaging, super-resolution microscopy, atomic force microscopy (AFM), live-cell imaging of calcium, and measurement of motility and adhesion dynamics characterized the physiologic role of LIM-nebulette in podocytes. RESULTS: Nebl knockout mice have increased susceptibility to adriamycin-induced nephropathy and display morphologic, cytoskeletal, and focal adhesion abnormalities with altered calcium dynamics, motility, and Rho GTPase activity. LIM-nebulette expression is decreased in diabetic nephropathy and FSGS patients at both the transcript and protein level. In mice, rats, and humans, LIM-nebulette expression is localized to primary, secondary, and tertiary processes of podocytes, where it colocalizes with focal adhesions as well as with vimentin fibers. LIM-nebulette shRNA knockdown in immortalized human podocytes leads to dysregulation of vimentin filament organization and reduced cellular elasticity as measured by AFM indentation. CONCLUSIONS: LIM-nebulette is a multifunctional cytoskeletal protein that is critical in the maintenance of podocyte structural integrity through active reorganization of focal adhesions, the actin cytoskeleton, and intermediate filaments.
PXD014370	32737216	High-dimensional Cytometry (ExCYT) and Mass Spectrometry of Myeloid Infiltrate in Clinically Localized Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Identifies Novel Potential Myeloid Targets for Immunotherapy. 	CD45+ vs CD45- RCC proteome characterization	CD45+, normal adjacent tissue, renal cell carcinoma	Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers worldwide with research efforts dramatically improving understanding of the biology of the disease. To investigate the role of the immune system in treatment-naive clear cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (ccRCC), we interrogated the immune infiltrate in patient-matched ccRCC tumor samples, benign normal adjacent tissue (NAT) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs isolated from whole blood, focusing our attention on the myeloid cell infiltrate. Using flow cytometric, MS, and ExCYT analysis, we discovered unique myeloid populations in PBMCs across patient samples. Furthermore, normal adjacent tissues and ccRCC tissues contained numerous myeloid populations with a unique signature for both tissues. Enrichment of the immune cell (CD45(+)) fraction and subsequent gene expression analysis revealed a number of myeloid-related genes that were differentially expressed. These data provide evidence, for the first time, of an immunosuppressive and pro-tumorigenic role of myeloid cells in early, clinically localized ccRCC. The identification of a number of immune proteins for therapeutic targeting provides a rationale for investigation into the potential efficacy of earlier intervention with single-agent or combination immunotherapy for ccRCC.
PXD020420	32737368	Proteomic analysis identifies plasma correlates of remote ischemic conditioning in the context of experimental traumatic brain injury. 	Proteomic analysis identifies plasma correlates of remote ischemic conditioning in the context of experimental traumatic brain injury	Biomarkers, Remote Ischemic Conditioning, Traumatic Brain Injury	Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC), transient restriction and recirculation of blood flow to a limb after traumatic brain injury (TBI), can modify levels of pathology-associated circulating protein. This study sought to identify TBI-induced molecular alterations in plasma and whether RIC would modulate protein and metabolite levels at 24 h after diffuse TBI. Adult male C57BL/6 mice received diffuse TBI by midline fluid percussion or were sham-injured. Mice were assigned to treatment groups 1 h after recovery of righting reflex: sham, TBI, sham RIC, TBI RIC. Nine plasma metabolites were significantly lower post-TBI (six amino acids, two acylcarnitines, one carnosine). RIC intervention returned metabolites to sham levels. Using proteomics analysis, twenty-four putative protein markers for TBI and RIC were identified. After application of Benjamini-Hochberg correction, actin, alpha 1, skeletal muscle (ACTA1) was found to be significantly increased in TBI compared to both sham groups and TBI RIC. Thus, identified metabolites and proteins provide potential biomarkers for TBI and therapeutic RIC in order to monitor disease progression and therapeutic efficacy.
PXD018517	32738194	Quality Control of ER Membrane Proteins by the RNF185/Membralin Ubiquitin Ligase Complex. 	The RNF185/Membralin ubiquitin ligase complex is a new ERAD branch involved in the degradation of a distinct subset of integral membrane proteins.	E3 ligase RNF185, Endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD), Membralin, TMEM259, TMUB1, TMUB2, ubiquitin	Misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are degraded by ER-associated degradation (ERAD). Although ERAD components involved in degradation of luminal substrates are well characterized, much less is known about quality control of membrane proteins. Here, we analyzed the degradation pathways of two short-lived ER membrane model proteins in mammalian cells. Using a CRISPR-Cas9 genome-wide library screen, we identified an ERAD branch required for quality control of a subset of membrane proteins. Using biochemical and mass spectrometry approaches, we showed that this ERAD branch is defined by an ER membrane complex consisting of the ubiquitin ligase RNF185, the ubiquitin-like domain containing proteins TMUB1/2 and TMEM259/Membralin, a poorly characterized protein. This complex cooperates with cytosolic ubiquitin ligase UBE3C and p97 ATPase in degrading their membrane substrates. Our data reveal that ERAD branches have remarkable specificity for their membrane substrates, suggesting that multiple, perhaps combinatorial, determinants are involved in substrate selection.
PXD018463	32742279	Cytotoxic and anticancer properties of the Malaysian mangrove pit viper (Trimeresurus purpureomaculatus) venom and its disintegrin (purpureomaculin). 	Protein identification of purpureomaculin isolated from Malaysian mangrove pit viper (Trimeresurus purpureomaculatus)	Disintegrin, LCMS/MS, Trimeresurus purpureomaculatus, mangrove pit viper	BACKGROUND: The Asiatic pit vipers from the Trimeresurus complex are medically important venomous snakes. These pit vipers are often associated with snakebite that leads to fatal coagulopathy and tissue necrosis. The cytotoxic venoms of Trimeresurus spp.; however, hold great potential for the development of peptide-based anticancer drugs. METHODS: This study investigated the cytotoxic effect of the venom from Trimeresurus purpureomaculatus, the mangrove pit viper (also known as shore pit viper) which is native in Malaysia, across a panel of human cancer cell lines from breast, lung, colon and prostate as well as the corresponding normal cell lines of each tissue. RESULTS: The venom exhibited dose-dependent cytotoxic activities on all cell lines tested, with median inhibition concentrations (IC50) ranging from 0.42 to 6.98 microg/mL. The venom has a high selectivity index (SI = 14.54) on breast cancer cell line (MCF7), indicating that it is significantly more cytotoxic toward the cancer than to normal cell lines. Furthermore, the venom was fractionated using C18 reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography and the anticancer effect of each protein fraction was examined. Fraction 1 that contains a hydrophilic low molecular weight (approximately 7.5 kDa) protein was found to be the most cytotoxic and selective toward the breast cancer cell line (MCF7). The protein was identified using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry as a venom disintegrin, termed purpureomaculin in this study. CONCLUSION: Taken together, the findings revealed the potent and selective cytotoxicity of a disintegrin protein isolated from the Malaysian T. purpureomaculatus venom and suggested its anticancer potential in drug discovery.
PXD008503	32743139	Assembly and disassembly of Aspergillus fumigatus conidial rodlets. 	Conidial rodlets of Aspergillus fumigatus	Aspergillus, label-free proteomic	The rodlet structure present on the Aspergillus fumigatus conidial surface hides conidia from immune recognition. In spite of the essential biological role of the rodlets, the molecular basis for their self-assembly and disaggregation is not known. Analysis of the soluble forms of conidia-extracted and recombinant RodA by NMR spectroscopy has indicated the importance of disulfide bonds and identified two dynamic regions as likely candidates for conformational change and intermolecular interactions during conversion of RodA into the amyloid rodlet structure. Point mutations introduced into the RODA sequence confirmed that (1) mutation of a single cysteine was sufficient to block rodlet formation on the conidial surface and (2) both presumed amyloidogenic regions were needed for proper rodlet assembly. Mutations in the two putative amyloidogenic regions retarded and disturbed, but did not completely inhibit, the formation of the rodlets in vitro and on the conidial surface. Even in a disturbed form, the presence of rodlets on the surface of the conidia was sufficient to immunosilence the conidium. However, in contrast to the parental conidia, long exposure of mutant conidia lacking disulfide bridges within RodA or expressing RodA carrying the double (I115S/I146G) mutation activated dendritic cells with the subsequent secretion of proinflammatory cytokines. The immune reactivity of the RodA mutant conidia was not due to a modification in the RodA structure, but to the exposure of different pathogen-associated molecular patterns on the surface as a result of the modification of the rodlet surface layer. The full degradation of the rodlet layer, which occurs during early germination, is due to a complex array of cell wall bound proteases. As reported earlier, this loss of the rodlet layer lead to a strong anti-fumigatus host immune response in mouse lungs.
PXD017607	32743553	Proteome dynamics analysis identifies functional roles of SDE2 and hypoxia in DNA damage response in prostate cancer cells. 	SILAC-based quantitative proteomics analysis of prostate cancer cells	SILAC, hypoxia, prostate cancer	Mechanistic understanding of hypoxia-responsive signaling pathways provides important insights into oxygen- and metabolism-dependent cellular phenotypes in diseases. Using SILAC-based quantitative proteomics, we provided a quantitative map identifying over 6300 protein groups in response to hypoxia in prostate cancer cells and identified both canonical and novel cellular networks dynamically regulated under hypoxia. Particularly, we identified SDE2, a DNA stress response modulator, that was significantly downregulated by hypoxia, independent of HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor) transcriptional activity. Mechanistically, hypoxia treatment promoted SDE2 polyubiquitination and degradation. Such regulation is independent of previously identified Arg/N-end rule proteolysis or the ubiquitin E3 ligase, CDT2. Depletion of SDE2 increased cellular sensitivity to DNA damage and inhibited cell proliferation. Interestingly, either SDE2 depletion or hypoxia treatment potentiated DNA damage-induced PCNA (proliferating cell nuclear antigen) monoubiquitination, a key step for translesion DNA synthesis. Furthermore, knockdown of SDE2 desensitized, while overexpression of SDE2 protected the hypoxia-mediated regulation of PCNA monoubiquitination upon DNA damage. Taken together, our quantitative proteomics and biochemical study revealed diverse hypoxia-responsive pathways that strongly associated with prostate cancer tumorigenesis and identified the functional roles of SDE2 and hypoxia in regulating DNA damage-induced PCNA monoubiquitination, suggesting a possible link between hypoxic microenvironment and the activation of error-prone DNA repair pathway in tumor cells.
PXD060811	32744313	Adenylate kinase 1 deficiency disrupts mouse sperm motility under conditions of energy stress+. 	Human testicular biopsies iTRAQ proteomics	NOA, iTRAQ, testicular biopsies	Mammalian spermatozoa are highly polarized cells characterized by compartmentalized cellular structures and energy metabolism. Adenylate kinase (AK), which interconverts two ADP molecules into stoichiometric amounts of ATP and AMP, plays a critical role in buffering adenine nucleotides throughout the tail to support flagellar motility. Yet the role of the major AK isoform, AK1, is still not well characterized. Here, by using a proteomic analysis of testis biopsy samples, we found that AK1 levels were significantly decreased in nonobstructive azoospermia patients. This result was further verified by immunohistochemical staining of AK1 on a tissue microarray. AK1 was found to be expressed in post-meiotic round and elongated spermatids in mouse testis and subsequent mature sperm in the epididymis. We then generated Ak1 knockout mice, which showed that AK1 deficiency did not induce any defects in testis development, spermatogenesis, or sperm morphology and motility under physiological conditions. We further investigated detergent-modeled epididymal sperm and included individual or mixed adenine nucleotides to mimic energy stress. When only ADP was available, Ak1 disruption largely compromised sperm motility, manifested as a smaller beating amplitude and higher beating frequency, which resulted in less effective forward swimming. The energy restriction/recover experiments with intact sperm further addressed this finding. Besides, decreased AK activity was observed in sperm of a male fertility disorder mouse model induced by cadmium chloride. These results cumulatively demonstrate that AK1 was dispensable for testis development, spermatogenesis, or sperm motility under physiological conditions, but was required for sperm to maintain a constant adenylate energy charge to support sperm motility under conditions of energy stress.
PXD012839	32744327	The composition and turnover of the Arabidopsis thaliana 80S cytosolic ribosome. 	Ribosomal protein turnover under normal condition	15N isotopic labelling, 80S cytosolic ibosome isolation, Arabidopsis  cell culture, protein turnover	Cytosolic 80S ribosomes contain proteins of the mature cytosolic ribosome (r-proteins) as well as proteins with roles in ribosome biogenesis, protein folding or modification. Here, we refined the core r-protein composition in Arabidopsis thaliana by determining the abundance of different proteins during enrichment of ribosomes from cell cultures using peptide mass spectrometry. The turnover rates of 26 40S subunit r-proteins and 29 60S subunit r-proteins were also determined, showing that half of the ribosome population is replaced every 3-4 days. Three enriched proteins showed significantly shorter half-lives; a protein annotated as a ribosomal protein uL10 (RPP0D, At1g25260) with a half-life of 0.5 days and RACK1b and c with half-lives of 1-1.4 days. The At1g25260 protein is a homologue of the human Mrt4 protein, a trans-acting factor in the assembly of the pre-60S particle, while RACK1 has known regulatory roles in cell function beyond its role in the 40S subunit. Our experiments also identified 58 proteins that are not from r-protein families but co-purify with ribosomes and co-express with r-proteins; 26 were enriched more than 10-fold during ribosome enrichment. Some of these enriched proteins have known roles in translation, while others are newly proposed ribosome-associated factors in plants. This analysis provides an improved understanding of A. thaliana ribosome protein content, shows that most r-proteins turnover in unison in vivo, identifies a novel set of potential plant translatome components, and how protein turnover can help identify r-proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis or regulation in plants.
PXD015231	32744500	NuRD subunit CHD4 regulates super-enhancer accessibility in rhabdomyosarcoma and represents a general tumor dependency. 	Defining the interactome of CHD4 in fusion-positive rhabdomyosarcoma	CHD4, NuRD, RH4, alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma	The NuRD complex subunit CHD4 is essential for fusion-positive rhabdomyosarcoma (FP-RMS) survival, but the mechanisms underlying this dependency are not understood. Here, a NuRD-specific CRISPR screen demonstrates that FP-RMS is particularly sensitive to CHD4 amongst the NuRD members. Mechanistically, NuRD complex containing CHD4 localizes to super-enhancers where CHD4 generates a chromatin architecture permissive for the binding of the tumor driver and fusion protein PAX3-FOXO1, allowing downstream transcription of its oncogenic program. Moreover, CHD4 depletion removes HDAC2 from the chromatin, leading to an increase and spread of histone acetylation, and prevents the positioning of RNA Polymerase 2 at promoters impeding transcription initiation. Strikingly, analysis of genome-wide cancer dependency databases identifies CHD4 as a general cancer vulnerability. Our findings describe CHD4, a classically defined repressor, as positive regulator of transcription and super-enhancer accessibility as well as establish this remodeler as an unexpected broad tumor susceptibility and promising drug target for cancer therapy.
PXD014930	32745315	Working day and night: plastid casein kinase 2 catalyses phosphorylation of proteins with diverse functions in light- and dark-adapted plastids. 	working day and night: plastid casein kinase 2 catalyses phosphorylation of target proteins with diverse functions in light and dark-adapted plastids	acclimation, chloroplast, kinases, phosphorylation targets, photosynthesis	Casein kinase 2 is a ubiquitous protein kinase that has puzzled researchers for several decades because of its pleiotropic activity. Here, we set out to identify the in vivo targets of plastid casein kinase 2 (pCK2) in Arabidopsis thaliana. Survey phosphoproteome analyses were combined with targeted analyses with wild-type and pck2 knockdown mutants to identify potential pCK2 targets by their decreased phosphorylation state in the mutant. To validate potential substrates, we complemented the pck2 knockdown line with tandem affinity tag (TAP)-tagged pCK2 and found it to restore growth parameters, as well as many, but not all, putative pCK2-dependent phosphorylation events. We further performed a targeted analysis at the end-of-night to increase the specificity of target protein identification. This analysis confirmed light-independent phosphorylation of several pCK2 target proteins. Based on the aforementioned data, we define a set of in vivo pCK2-targets that span different chloroplast functions, such as metabolism, transcription, translation and photosynthesis. The pleiotropy of pCK2 functions is also manifested by altered state transition kinetics during short-term acclimation and significant alterations in the mutant metabolism, supporting its function in photosynthetic regulation. Thus, our data expand our understanding on chloroplast phosphorylation networks and provide insights into kinase networks in the regulation of chloroplast functions.
PXD011447	32747755	CD44 regulates epigenetic plasticity by mediating iron endocytosis. 	CD44 regulates epigenetic plasticity by mediating iron endocytosis - part 1	Breast cancer, EMT, Proteins expression	CD44 is a transmembrane glycoprotein linked to various biological processes reliant on epigenetic plasticity, which include development, inflammation, immune responses, wound healing and cancer progression. Although it is often referred to as a cell surface marker, the functional regulatory roles of CD44 remain elusive. Here we report the discovery that CD44 mediates the endocytosis of iron-bound hyaluronates in tumorigenic cell lines, primary cancer cells and tumours. This glycan-mediated iron endocytosis mechanism is enhanced during epithelial-mesenchymal transitions, in which iron operates as a metal catalyst to demethylate repressive histone marks that govern the expression of mesenchymal genes. CD44 itself is transcriptionally regulated by nuclear iron through a positive feedback loop, which is in contrast to the negative regulation of the transferrin receptor by excess iron. Finally, we show that epigenetic plasticity can be altered by interfering with iron homeostasis using small molecules. This study reveals an alternative iron-uptake mechanism that prevails in the mesenchymal state of cells, which illuminates a central role of iron as a rate-limiting regulator of epigenetic plasticity.
PXD018715	32747783	The nucleosome acidic patch and H2A ubiquitination underlie mSWI/SNF recruitment in synovial sarcoma. 	Identification of the SS18-SSX interacting proteins	293T cells, BAF complex, chromatin, histones, nuclear extract, synovial sarcoma	Interactions between chromatin-associated proteins and the histone landscape play major roles in dictating genome topology and gene expression. Cancer-specific fusion oncoproteins, which display unique chromatin localization patterns, often lack classical DNA-binding domains, presenting challenges in identifying mechanisms governing their site-specific chromatin targeting and function. Here we identify a minimal region of the human SS18-SSX fusion oncoprotein (the hallmark driver of synovial sarcoma) that mediates a direct interaction between the mSWI/SNF complex and the nucleosome acidic patch. This binding results in altered mSWI/SNF composition and nucleosome engagement, driving cancer-specific mSWI/SNF complex targeting and gene expression. Furthermore, the C-terminal region of SSX confers preferential affinity to repressed, H2AK119Ub-marked nucleosomes, underlying the selective targeting to polycomb-marked genomic regions and synovial sarcoma-specific dependency on PRC1 function. Together, our results describe a functional interplay between a key nucleosome binding hub and a histone modification that underlies the disease-specific recruitment of a major chromatin remodeling complex.
PXD018004	32748086	Comprehensive transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of antroquinonol biosynthetic genes and enzymes in Antrodia camphorata. 	iTRAQ of Antrodia camphorata S-29	Antrodia camphorata, iTRAQ	Antroquinonol (AQ) has several remarkable bioactivities in acute myeloid leukaemia and pancreatic cancer, but difficulties in the mass production of AQ hamper its applications. Currently, molecular biotechnology methods, such as gene overexpression, have been widely used to increase the production of metabolites. However, AQ biosynthetic genes and enzymes are poorly understood. In this study, an integrated study coupling RNA-Seq and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) were used to identify AQ synthesis-related genes and enzymes in Antrodia camphorata during coenzyme Q0-induced fermentation (FM). The upregulated genes related to acetyl-CoA synthesis indicated that acetyl-CoA enters the mevalonate pathway to form the farnesyl tail precursor of AQ. The metE gene for an enzyme with methyl transfer activity provided sufficient methyl groups for AQ structure formation. The CoQ2 and ubiA genes encode p-hydroxybenzoate polyprenyl transferase, linking coenzyme Q0 and the polyisoprene side chain to form coenzyme Q3. NADH is transformed into NAD+ and releases two electrons, which may be beneficial for the conversion of coenzyme Q3 to AQ. Understanding the biosynthetic genes and enzymes of AQ is important for improving its production by genetic means in the future.
PXD014778	32749453	AKT-dependent NOTCH3 activation drives tumor progression in a model of mesenchymal colorectal cancer. 	AKT dependent Notch3 activation drives tumor progression in a model of mesenchymal colorectal cancer subtype	Colorectal cancer, LC/MS, Label-free quantification, Protein phosphorylation	Recently, a transcriptome-based consensus molecular subtype (CMS) classification of colorectal cancer (CRC) has been established, which may ultimately help to individualize CRC therapy. However, the lack of animal models that faithfully recapitulate the different molecular subtypes impedes adequate preclinical testing of stratified therapeutic concepts. Here, we demonstrate that constitutive AKT activation in intestinal epithelial cells markedly enhances tumor invasion and metastasis in Trp53DeltaIEC mice (Trp53DeltaIECAktE17K) upon challenge with the carcinogen azoxymethane. Gene-expression profiling indicates that Trp53DeltaIECAktE17K tumors resemble the human mesenchymal colorectal cancer subtype (CMS4), which is characterized by the poorest survival rate among the four CMSs. Trp53DeltaIECAktE17K tumor cells are characterized by Notch3 up-regulation, and treatment of Trp53DeltaIECAktE17K mice with a NOTCH3-inhibiting antibody reduces invasion and metastasis. In CRC patients, NOTCH3 expression correlates positively with tumor grading and the presence of lymph node as well as distant metastases and is specifically up-regulated in CMS4 tumors. Therefore, we suggest NOTCH3 as a putative target for advanced CMS4 CRC patients.
PXD019913	32750668	Stochiometric quantification of the thiol redox proteome of macrophages reveals subcellular compartmentalization and susceptibility to oxidative perturbations. 	Stochiometric Quantification of the Thiol Redox Proteome Reveals Subcellular Compartmentalization and Susceptibility to Oxidative Perturbations	Protein thiols, S-glutathionylation, macrophage, redox modification, redox proteomics, resin-assisted enrichment, site-occupancy, stoichiometry	Posttranslational modifications of protein cysteine thiols play a significant role in redox regulation and the pathogenesis of human diseases. Herein, we report the characterization of the cellular redox landscape in terms of quantitative, site-specific occupancies of both S-glutathionylation (SSG) and total reversible thiol oxidation (total oxidation) in RAW 264.7 macrophage cells under basal conditions. The occupancies of thiol modifications for ~4000 cysteine sites were quantified, revealing a mean site occupancy of 4.0% for SSG and 11.9% for total oxidation, respectively. Correlations between site occupancies and structural features such as pKa, relative residue surface accessibility, and hydrophobicity were observed. Proteome-wide site occupancy analysis revealed that the average occupancies of SSG and total oxidation in specific cellular compartments correlate well with the expected redox potentials of respective organelles in macrophages, consistent with the notion of redox compartmentalization. The lowest average occupancies were observed in more reducing organelles such as the mitochondria (non-membrane) and nucleus, while the highest average occupancies were found in more oxidizing organelles such as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and lysosome. Furthermore, a pattern of subcellular susceptibility to redox changes was observed under oxidative stress induced by exposure to engineered metal oxide nanoparticles. Peroxisome, ER, and mitochondria (membrane) are the organelles which exhibit the most significant redox changes; while mitochondria (non-membrane) and Golgi were observed as the organelles being most resistant to oxidative stress. Finally, it was observed that Cys residues at enzymatic active sites generally had a higher level of occupancy compared to non-active Cys residues within the same proteins, suggesting site occupancy as a potential indicator of protein functional sites. The raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD019913.
PXD019872	32752210	Proteo-Transcriptomic Analysis Identifies Potential Novel Toxins Secreted by the Predatory, Prey-Piercing Ribbon Worm Amphiporus lactifloreus. 	Amphiporus lactifloreus epidermis secrection proteomics	Amphiporus lactifloreus, ribb worm, toxin	Nemerteans (ribbon worms) employ toxins to subdue their prey, but research thus far has focused on the small-molecule components of mucus secretions and few protein toxins have been characterized. We carried out a preliminary proteotranscriptomic analysis of putative toxins produced by the hoplonemertean Amphiporus lactifloreus (Hoplonemertea, Amphiporidae). No variants were found of known nemertean-specific toxin proteins (neurotoxins, cytotoxins, parbolysins or nemertides) but several toxin-like transcripts were discovered, expressed strongly in the proboscis, including putative metalloproteinases and sequences resembling sea anemone actitoxins, crown-of-thorn sea star plancitoxins, and multiple classes of inhibitor cystine knot/knottin family proteins. Some of these products were also directly identified in the mucus proteome, supporting their preliminary identification as secreted toxin components. Two new nemertean-typical toxin candidates could be described and were named U-nemertotoxin-1 and U-nemertotoxin-2. Our findings provide insight into the largely overlooked venom system of nemerteans and support a hypothesis in which the nemertean proboscis evolved in several steps from a flesh-melting organ in scavenging nemerteans to a flesh-melting and toxin-secreting venom apparatus in hunting hoplonemerteans.
PXD020344	32752259	N-Glycoproteins Have a Major Role in MGL Binding to Colorectal Cancer Cell Lines: Associations with Overall Proteome Diversity. 	N-glycoproteins have a major role in MGL binding to colorectal cancer cell lines	C-type lectin, Colorectal cancer, Glycoproteomics, LacdiNAc, TMT labelling, Tn antigen	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second-leading cause of cancer death worldwide due in part to a high proportion of patients diagnosed at advanced stages of the disease. For this reason, many efforts have been made towards new approaches for early detection and prognosis. Cancer-associated aberrant glycosylation, especially the Tn and STn antigens, can be detected using the macrophage galactose-type C-type lectin (MGL/CLEC10A/CD301), which has been shown to be a promising tool for CRC prognosis. We had recently identified the major MGL-binding glycoproteins in two high-MGL-binding CRC cells lines, HCT116 and HT29. However, we failed to detect the presence of O-linked Tn and STn glycans on most CRC glycoproteins recognized by MGL. We therefore investigated here the impact of N-linked and O-linked glycans carried by these proteins for the binding to MGL. In addition, we performed quantitative proteomics to study the major differences in proteins involved in glycosylation in these cells. Our results showed that N-glycans have a significant, previously underestimated, importance in MGL binding to CRC cell lines. Finally, we highlighted both common and cell-specific processes associated with a high-MGL-binding phenotype, such as differential levels of enzymes involved in protein glycosylation, and a transcriptional factor (CDX-2) involved in their regulation.
PXD013731	32753747	The AAA + ATPase valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97/Cdc48 interaction network in Leishmania. 	Functional characterization of the p97/valosin-containing protein (VCP) interacting network in Leishmania Functional characterization of the p97/valosin-containing protein (VCP) interacting network in Leishmania	Leishmania, Network proteomics, VCP cofactors, VCP/p97, co-immunoprecipitation	Valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97/Cdc48 is an AAA + ATPase associated with many ubiquitin-dependent cellular pathways that are central to protein quality control. VCP binds various cofactors, which determine pathway selectivity and substrate processing. Here, we used co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry studies coupled to in silico analyses to identify the Leishmania infantum VCP (LiVCP) interactome and to predict molecular interactions between LiVCP and its major cofactors. Our data support a largely conserved VCP protein network in Leishmania including known but also novel interaction partners. Network proteomics analysis confirmed LiVCP-cofactor interactions and provided novel insights into cofactor-specific partners and the diversity of LiVCP complexes, including the well-characterized VCP-UFD1-NPL4 complex. Gene Ontology analysis coupled with digitonin fractionation and immunofluorescence studies support cofactor subcellular compartmentalization with either cytoplasmic or organellar or vacuolar localization. Furthermore, in silico models based on 3D homology modeling and protein-protein docking indicated that the conserved binding modules of LiVCP cofactors, except for NPL4, interact with specific binding sites in the hexameric LiVCP protein, similarly to their eukaryotic orthologs. Altogether, these results allowed us to build the first VCP protein interaction network in parasitic protozoa through the identification of known and novel interacting partners potentially associated with distinct VCP complexes.
PXD011883	32756007	Anchorage independence altered vasculogenic phenotype of melanoma cells through downregulation in aminopeptidase N /syndecan-1/integrin beta4 axis. 	Quantitative proteomics of melanoma metastases derived from adherent cells or suspended cells.	Anchorage independency, Melanoma	The detachment of tumor cells from extracellular matrix and survival under anchorage-independence were recognized as the initial step of tumor metastasis. Previously we had demonstrated that anchorage-independence altered gene expressions and showed characteristics of cell invasiveness loss, enhanced chemosensitivity, and enhanced subcutaneous tumor formation. However, whether it affected histological phenotypes in tumor tissues remained unclear. Melanoma metastases were generated in nude mice using adherent or suspended melanoma cells. Examination of melanoma metastases revealed histological features of extensive vascular structures in adherent cell-derived tumors, while not seen in suspended cell-derived tumors. Quantitative proteomic analysis at adherent, suspended, and re-attached melanoma cells suggested that aminopeptidase N was potentially downregulated upon cell suspension or reattachment. Downregulation of aminopeptidase N by gene-specific shRNAs showed reduced cell invasiveness and enhanced subcutaneous tumor formation that was consistent with previous observations. Experiments by suppression or overexpression of aminopeptidase N expression demonstrated that aminopeptidase N regulated syndecan-1 and integrin beta4 expression through PKCdelta pathway. Histological analysis at melanoma metastases further suggested that CD31(+)/aminopeptidase N(+)/syndecan-1(+)/integrin beta4(+) phenotypes were associated with vascular structures. In summary, we suggested the expression axis of aminopeptidase N/syndecan-1/integrin beta4 in melanoma cells was suppressed by detachment stress, which diminished vascular phenotypes of melanoma metastases.
PXD013116	32759169	Asparagine Hydroxylation is a Reversible Post-translational Modification. 	Asparagine hydroxylation is likely to be a reversible post-translational modification	PTM, hydroxylation, hypoxia	Amino acid hydroxylation is a common post-translational modification, which generally regulates protein interactions or adds a functional group that can be further modified. Such hydroxylation is currently considered irreversible, necessitating the degradation and re-synthesis of the entire protein to reset the modification. Here we present evidence that the cellular machinery can reverse FIH-mediated asparagine hydroxylation on intact proteins. These data suggest that asparagine hydroxylation is a flexible and dynamic post-translational modification akin to modifications involved in regulating signaling networks, such as phosphorylation, methylation and ubiquitylation.
PXD020450	32759763	Evaluation of Antifungal Activity of Naja pallida and Naja mossambica Venoms against Three Candida Species. 	Evaluation of antifungal activity of Naja pallida and Naja mossambica venoms against three Candida species	Candida albicans, Naja mossambica, Naja pallida, cobra venoms	In contrast to comprehensively investigated antibacterial activity of snake venoms, namely crude venoms and their selected components, little is known about antifungal properties of elapid snake venoms. In the present study, the proteome of two venoms of red spitting cobra Naja pallida (NPV) and Mozambique spitting cobra Naja mossambica (NMV) was characterized using LC-MS/MS approach, and the antifungal activity of crude venoms against three Candida species was established. A complex response to venom treatment was revealed. NPV and NMV, when used at relatively high concentrations, decreased cell viability of C. albicans and C. tropicalis, affected cell cycle of C. albicans, inhibited C. tropicalis-based biofilm formation and promoted oxidative stress in C. albicans, C. glabrata and C. tropicalis cells. NPV and NMV also modulated ammonia pulses during colony development and aging in three Candida species. All these observations provide evidence that NPV and NMV may diminish selected pathogenic features of Candida species. However, NPV and NMV also promoted the secretion of extracellular phospholipases that may facilitate Candida pathogenicity and limit their usefulness as anti-candidal agents. In conclusion, antifungal activity of snake venoms should be studied with great caution and a plethora of pathogenic biomarkers should be considered in the future experiments.
PXD018808	32760004	Rescue of oxytocin response and social behaviour in a mouse model of autism. 	Rescue of oxytocin response and social behavior in a rodent model of autism	Autism, PRM	A fundamental challenge in developing treatments for autism spectrum disorders is the heterogeneity of the condition. More than one hundred genetic mutations confer high risk for autism, with each individual mutation accounting for only a small fraction of cases(1-3). Subsets of risk genes can be grouped into functionally related pathways, most prominently those involving synaptic proteins, translational regulation, and chromatin modifications. To attempt to minimize this genetic complexity, recent therapeutic strategies have focused on the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin(4-6), which regulate aspects of social behaviour in mammals(7). However, it is unclear whether genetic risk factors predispose individuals to autism as a result of modifications to oxytocinergic signalling. Here we report that an autism-associated mutation in the synaptic adhesion molecule Nlgn3 results in impaired oxytocin signalling in dopaminergic neurons and in altered behavioural responses to social novelty tests in mice. Notably, loss of Nlgn3 is accompanied by a disruption of translation homeostasis in the ventral tegmental area. Treatment of Nlgn3-knockout mice with a new, highly specific, brain-penetrant inhibitor of MAP kinase-interacting kinases resets the translation of mRNA and restores oxytocin signalling and social novelty responses. Thus, this work identifies a convergence between the genetic autism risk factor Nlgn3, regulation of translation, and oxytocinergic signalling. Focusing on such common core plasticity elements might provide a pragmatic approach to overcoming the heterogeneity of autism. Ultimately, this would enable mechanism-based stratification of patient populations to increase the success of therapeutic interventions.
PXD018011	32760417	Identification of Tomato Proteins That Interact With Replication Initiator Protein (Rep) of the Geminivirus TYLCV. 	Identification of tomato proteins that interact with Replication initiator protein (Rep) of the geminivirus TYLCV	Geminivirus, Interactome, PCNA, Rep, TYLCV, viral replication	Geminiviruses are plant-infecting DNA viruses that reshape the intracellular environment of their host in order to create favorable conditions for viral replication and propagation. Viral manipulation is largely mediated via interactions between viral and host proteins. Identification of this protein network helps us to understand how these viruses manipulate their host and therefore provides us potentially with novel leads for resistance against this class of pathogens, as genetic variation in the corresponding plant genes could subvert viral manipulation. Different studies have already yielded a list of host proteins that interact with one of the geminiviral proteins. Here, we use affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry (AP-MS) to further expand this list of interacting proteins, focusing on an important host (tomato) and the Replication initiator protein (Rep, AL1, C1) from Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV). Rep is the only geminiviral protein proven to be essential for geminiviral replication and it forms an integral part of viral replisomes, a protein complex that consists of plant and viral proteins that allows for viral DNA replication. Using AP-MS, fifty-four 'high confidence' tomato proteins were identified that specifically co-purified with Rep. For two of them, an unknown EWS-like RNA-binding protein (called Geminivirus Rep interacting EWS-like protein 1 or GRIEP1) and an isoform of the THO complex subunit 4A (ALY1), we were able to confirm this interaction with Rep in planta using a second method, bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). The THO subunit 4 is part of the THO/TREX (TRanscription-EXport) complex, which controls RNA splicing and nuclear export of mRNA to the cytoplasm and is also connected to plant disease resistance. This work represents the first step towards characterization of novel host factors with a putative role in the life cycle of TYLCV and possibly other geminiviruses.
PXD019412	32760418	PUB11-Dependent Ubiquitination of the Phospholipid Flippase ALA10 Modifies ALA10 Localization and Affects the Pool of Linolenic Phosphatidylcholine. 	PUB11-dependent ubiquitination of ALA10	phospholipid flippase ALA10, ubiquitination	Biogenesis of photosynthetic membranes depends on galactolipid synthesis, which relies on several cell compartments, notably the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the chloroplast envelope. Galactolipid synthesis involves lipid trafficking between both membrane compartments. In Arabidopsis, ALA10, a phospholipid flippase of the P4 type-ATPase family, counteracts the limitation of monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) production and has a positive effect on leaf development. ALA10 locates in distinct domains of the ER depending on the ALIS (ALA interacting subunit) subunit it interacts with: close to the plasma membrane with ALIS1, or next to chloroplasts with ALIS5. It interacts with FAD2 (Fatty acid desaturase 2) and prevents accumulation of linolenic (18:3) containing phosphatidylcholine (PC) stimulating an increase of MGDG synthesis. Here we report that ALA10 interacts with PUB11 (plant U-box type 11), an E3 protein ubiquitin ligase, in vitro and in vivo. ALA10 is however ubiquitinated and degraded by the 26S proteasome in a PUB11-independent process. In pub11 null mutant, the proteasome-dependent degradation of ALA10 is retained and ALA10 is still subject to ubiquitination although its ubiquitination profile appears different. In the absence of PUB11, ALA10 is constrained to the ER close to chloroplasts, which is the usual location when ALA10 is overexpressed. Additionally, in this condition, the decrease of 18:3 containing PC is no longer observed. Taken together these results suggest, that ALA10 contributes in chloroplast-distal ER interacting domains, to reduce the 18:3 desaturation of PC and that PUB11 is involved in reconditioning of ALA10 from chloroplast-proximal to chloroplast-distal ER interacting domains.
PXD019121	32761170	Evolutionary Remodeling of the Cell Envelope in Bacteria of the Planctomycetes Phylum. 	Cell wall proteome of Tuwongella immobilis	Planctomycetes, Tuwongella immobilis, cell wall	Bacteria of the Planctomycetes phylum have many unique cellular features, such as extensive membrane invaginations and the ability to import macromolecules. These features raise intriguing questions about the composition of their cell envelopes. In this study, we have used microscopy, phylogenomics, and proteomics to examine the composition and evolution of cell envelope proteins in Tuwongella immobilis and other members of the Planctomycetes. Cryo-electron tomography data indicated a distance of 45 nm between the inner and outer membranes in T. immobilis. Consistent with the wide periplasmic space, our bioinformatics studies showed that the periplasmic segments of outer-membrane proteins in type II secretion systems are extended in bacteria of the order Planctomycetales. Homologs of two highly abundant cysteine-rich cell wall proteins in T. immobilis were identified in all members of the Planctomycetales, whereas genes for peptidoglycan biosynthesis and cell elongation have been lost in many members of this bacterial group. The cell wall proteins contain multiple copies of the YTV motif, which is the only domain that is conserved and unique to the Planctomycetales. Earlier diverging taxa in the Planctomycetes phylum contain genes for peptidoglycan biosynthesis but no homologs to the YTV cell wall proteins. The major remodeling of the cell envelope in the ancestor of the Planctomycetales coincided with the emergence of budding and other unique cellular phenotypes. The results have implications for hypotheses about the process whereby complex cellular features evolve in bacteria.
PXD020231	32761762	CSAG2 is a cancer-specific activator of SIRT1. 	Protein interaction AP-MS data for TAP-CSAG1 and TAP-CSAG2 from HEK293 cells	CSAG1 CSAG2	SIRT1 is a NAD(+) -dependent deacetylase that controls key metabolic and signaling pathways, including inactivating the p53 tumor suppressor. However, the mechanisms controlling SIRT1 enzymatic activity in the context of cancer are unclear. Here, we show that the previously undescribed CSAG2 protein is a direct activator of SIRT1. CSAG2 is normally restricted to expression in the male germline but is frequently re-activated in cancers. CSAG2 is necessary for cancer cell proliferation and promotes tumorigenesis in vivo. Biochemical studies revealed that CSAG2 directly binds to and stimulates SIRT1 activity toward multiple substrates. Importantly, CSAG2 enhances SIRT1-mediated deacetylation of p53, inhibits p53 transcriptional activity, and improves cell survival in response to genotoxic stress. Mechanistically, CSAG2 binds SIRT1 catalytic domain and promotes activity independent of altering substrate affinity. Together, our results identify a previously undescribed mechanism for SIRT1 activation in cancer cells and highlight unanticipated approaches to therapeutically modulate SIRT1.
PXD020406	32762496	Parallel Murine and Human Plaque Proteomics Reveals Pathways of Plaque Rupture. 	Wild-type and O/E uPA in mouse aortic arches_PROTOMAP	PROTOMAP, aortic arches, uPA	RATIONALE: Plaque rupture is the proximate cause of most myocardial infarctions and many strokes. However, the molecular mechanisms that precipitate plaque rupture are unknown. OBJECTIVE: By applying proteomic and bioinformatic approaches in mouse models of protease-induced plaque rupture and in ruptured human plaques, we aimed to illuminate biochemical pathways through which proteolysis causes plaque rupture and identify substrates that are cleaved in ruptured plaques. METHODS AND RESULTS: We performed shotgun proteomics analyses of aortas of transgenic mice with macrophage-specific overexpression of urokinase (SR-uPA(+/0) mice) and of SR-uPA(+/0) bone marrow transplant recipients, and we used bioinformatic tools to evaluate protein abundance and functional category enrichment in these aortas. In parallel, we performed shotgun proteomics and bioinformatics studies on extracts of ruptured and stable areas of freshly harvested human carotid plaques. We also applied a separate protein-analysis method (protein topography and migration analysis platform) to attempt to identify substrates and proteolytic fragments in mouse and human plaque extracts. Approximately 10% of extracted aortic proteins were reproducibly altered in SR-uPA(+/0) aortas. Proteases, inflammatory signaling molecules, as well as proteins involved with cell adhesion, the cytoskeleton, and apoptosis, were increased. ECM (Extracellular matrix) proteins, including basement-membrane proteins, were decreased. Approximately 40% of proteins were altered in ruptured versus stable areas of human carotid plaques, including many of the same functional categories that were altered in SR-uPA(+/0) aortas. Collagens were minimally altered in SR-uPA(+/0) aortas and ruptured human plaques; however, several basement-membrane proteins were reduced in both SR-uPA(+/0) aortas and ruptured human plaques. Protein topography and migration analysis platform did not detect robust increases in proteolytic fragments of ECM proteins in either setting. CONCLUSIONS: Parallel studies of SR-uPA(+/0) mouse aortas and human plaques identify mechanisms that connect proteolysis with plaque rupture, including inflammation, basement-membrane protein loss, and apoptosis. Basement-membrane protein loss is a prominent feature of ruptured human plaques, suggesting a major role for basement-membrane proteins in maintaining plaque stability.
PXD020684	32763159	Two Functional Axes of Feedback-Enforced PRC2 Recruitment in Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells. 	Two distinct functional axes of positive feedback-enforced PRC2 recruitment in mouse embryonic stem cells	Chromatin, Embryonic stem cells, PRC2, Polycomb	Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) plays an essential role in gene repression during development, catalyzing H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3). MTF2 in the PRC2.1 sub-complex, and JARID2 in PRC2.2, are central in core PRC2 recruitment to target genes in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). To investigate how PRC2.1 and PRC2.2 cooperate, we combined Polycomb mutant mESCs with chemical inhibition of binding to H3K27me3. We find that PRC2.1 and PRC2.2 mediate two distinct paths for recruitment, which are mutually reinforced. Whereas PRC2.1 recruitment is mediated by MTF2 binding to DNA, JARID2-containing PRC2.2 recruitment is more dependent on PRC1. Both recruitment axes are supported by core subunit EED binding to H3K27me3, but EED inhibition exhibits a more pronounced effect in Jarid2 null cells. Finally, we show that PRC1 and PRC2 enhance reciprocal binding. Together, these data disentangle the interdependent interactions that are important for PRC2 recruitment.
PXD019073	32763974	A potential role for a novel ZC3H5 complex in regulating mRNA translation in Trypanosoma brucei. 	A novel essential RNA-binding protein complex in Trypanosoma brucei	LC-MS, RNA immunoprecipitation, RNA-binding, Trypanosoma, ZC3H5, protein complex	In Trypanosoma brucei and related kinetoplastids, gene expression regulation occurs mostly posttranscriptionally. Consequently, RNA-binding proteins play a critical role in the regulation of mRNA and protein abundance. Yet, the roles of many RNA-binding proteins are not understood. Our previous research identified the RNA-binding protein ZC3H5 as possibly involved in gene repression, but its role in controlling gene expression was unknown. We here show that ZC3H5 is an essential cytoplasmic RNA-binding protein. RNAi targeting ZC3H5 causes accumulation of precytokinetic cells followed by rapid cell death. Affinity purification and pairwise yeast two-hybrid analysis suggest that ZC3H5 forms a complex with three other proteins, encoded by genes Tb927.11.4900, Tb927.8.1500, and Tb927.7.3040. RNA immunoprecipitation revealed that ZC3H5 is preferentially associated with poorly translated, low-stability mRNAs, the 5'-untranslated regions and coding regions of which are enriched in the motif (U/A)UAG(U/A). As previously found in high-throughput analyses, artificial tethering of ZC3H5 to a reporter mRNA or other complex components repressed reporter expression. However, depletion of ZC3H5 in vivo caused only very minor decreases in a few targets, marked increases in the abundances of very stable mRNAs, an increase in monosomes at the expense of large polysomes, and appearance of "halfmer" disomes containing two 80S subunits and one 40S subunit. We speculate that the ZC3H5 complex might be implicated in quality control during the translation of suboptimal open reading frames.
PXD020673	32764385	Profound Reprogramming towards Stemness in Pancreatic Cancer Cells as Adaptation to AKT Inhibition. 	Effects of AKT inhibition in the pancreatic cancer cell proteome	AKT, adenocarcinoma, cancer, pancreas	Cancer cells acquire resistance to cytotoxic therapies targeting major survival pathways by adapting their metabolism. The AKT pathway is a major regulator of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma progression and a key pharmacological target. The mechanisms of adaptation to long-term silencing of AKT isoforms of human and mouse pancreatic adenocarcinoma cancer cells were studied. Following silencing, cancer cells remained quiescent for long periods of time, after which they recovered proliferative capacities. Adaptation caused profound proteomic changes largely affecting mitochondrial biogenesis, energy metabolism and acquisition of a number of distinct cancer stem cell (CSC) characteristics depending on the AKT isoform that was silenced. The adaptation to AKT1 silencing drove most de-differentiation and acquisition of stemness through C-MYC down-modulation and NANOG upregulation, which were required for survival of adapted CSCs. The changes associated to adaptation sensitized cancer cells to inhibitors targeting regulators of oxidative respiration and mitochondrial biogenesis. In vivo pharmacological co-inhibition of AKT and mitochondrial metabolism effectively controlled pancreatic adenocarcinoma growth in pre-clinical models.
PXD019712	32764543	Nanoproteomics enables proteoform-resolved analysis of low-abundance proteins in human serum. 	Nanoproteomics enables proteoform-resolved analysis of low-abundance proteins in human serum	Cardiac Troponin I, Heart, LC-MS, MaXis, QTOF, Serum	Top-down mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics provides a comprehensive analysis of proteoforms to achieve a proteome-wide understanding of protein functions. However, the MS detection of low-abundance proteins from blood remains an unsolved challenge due to the extraordinary dynamic range of the blood proteome. Here, we develop an integrated nanoproteomics method coupling peptide-functionalized superparamagnetic nanoparticles (NPs) with top-down MS for the enrichment and comprehensive analysis of cardiac troponin I (cTnI), a gold-standard cardiac biomarker, directly from serum. These NPs enable the sensitive enrichment of cTnI (<1 ng/mL) with high specificity and reproducibility, while simultaneously depleting highly abundant proteins such as human serum albumin (>10(10) more abundant than cTnI). We demonstrate that top-down nanoproteomics can provide high-resolution proteoform-resolved molecular fingerprints of diverse cTnI proteoforms to establish proteoform-pathophysiology relationships. This scalable and reproducible antibody-free strategy can generally enable the proteoform-resolved analysis of low-abundance proteins directly from serum to reveal previously unachievable molecular details.
PXD014438	32764642	Novel protein pathways in development and progression of pulmonary sarcoidosis. 	Novel Protein Pathways in Development and Progression of Pulmonary Sarcoidosis.	Sarcoidosis proteomics protein networks novel mechanism biomarkers BALF intracellular proteins	Pulmonary involvement occurs in up to 95% of sarcoidosis cases. In this pilot study, we examine lung compartment-specific protein expression to identify pathways linked to development and progression of pulmonary sarcoidosis. We characterized bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells and fluid (BALF) proteins in recently diagnosed sarcoidosis cases. We identified 4,306 proteins in BAL cells, of which 272 proteins were differentially expressed in sarcoidosis compared to controls. These proteins map to novel pathways such as integrin-linked kinase and IL-8 signaling and previously implicated pathways in sarcoidosis, including phagosome maturation, clathrin-mediated endocytic signaling and redox balance. In the BALF, the differentially expressed proteins map to several pathways identified in the BAL cells. The differentially expressed BALF proteins also map to aryl hydrocarbon signaling, communication between innate and adaptive immune response, integrin, PTEN and phospholipase C signaling, serotonin and tryptophan metabolism, autophagy, and B cell receptor signaling. Additional pathways that were different between progressive and non-progressive sarcoidosis in the BALF included CD28 signaling and PFKFB4 signaling. Our studies demonstrate the power of contemporary proteomics to reveal novel mechanisms operational in sarcoidosis. Application of our workflows in well-phenotyped large cohorts maybe beneficial to identify biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis and therapeutically tenable molecular mechanisms.
PXD018456	32765254	Licorice-Yuanhua Herbal Pair Induces Ileum Injuries Through Weakening Epithelial and Mucous Barrier Functions: Saponins, Flavonoids, and Di-Terpenes All Involved. 	Study the effect of licorice-yuanhua combination on the gut mucosal barrier	gut, licorice, yuanhua	In traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), the licorice-yuanhua herbal pair is one of the most representative incompatible herbal pairs recorded in the "eighteen incompatible herbal pairs" theory. Previous studies of our research group have demonstrated several gut-related side-effects induced by the licorice-yuanhua herbal pair. In this study, we investigated whether and why this incompatible herbal pair could induce gut tissue damage. After licorice-yuanhua treatment, the duodenum, ileum, and colon and serum biomarkers of mice were examined by pathological staining, Western blot, and ELISA assays. The IEC-6 cells and LS174T cells were treated with licorice saponins, yuanhua flavonoids, and di-terpenes; iTRAQ-labeled proteomic technology was then used to explore their synergistic effects on mucosa cells, followed by verification of ZO-1 and MUC-2 protein expressions. The results showed that the licorice-yuanhua herbal pair induced ileum tissue injuries, including epithelial integrity loss, inflammation, and edema. These injuries were verified to be related to epithelial and mucous barrier weakening, such as downregulated ileum ZO-1 and MUC-2 protein expressions. Proteomic analysis also suggested that glycyrrhizic acid and genkwanin synergistically influence tight junction pathways in LS174T cells. Furthermore, licorice saponins, yuanhua flavonoids, and di-terpenes dose/structure-dependently downregulate ZO-1 and MUC-2 protein expressions in mucosa cells. Our study provides different insights into the incompatibility mechanisms and material basis of the licorice-yuanhua herbal pair, especially that besides toxic di-terpenes, licorice saponins and yuanhua flavonoids, which are commonly known to be non-toxic compounds, can also take part in the gut damage induced by the licorice-yuanhua herbal pair.
PXD016191	32766723	NCKAP1L defects lead to a novel syndrome combining immunodeficiency, lymphoproliferation, and hyperinflammation. 	NCKAP1L defects lead to primary immunodeficincy and lymphoproliferation within a Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis-like syndrome	Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis-like syndrome, NCKAP1L-deficiency, RNAseq, immunophenotying, shotgun proteomics	The Nck-associated protein 1-like (NCKAP1L) gene, alternatively called hematopoietic protein 1 (HEM-1), encodes a hematopoietic lineage-specific regulator of the actin cytoskeleton. Nckap1l-deficient mice have anomalies in lymphocyte development, phagocytosis, and neutrophil migration. Here we report, for the first time, NCKAP1L deficiency cases in humans. In two unrelated patients of Middle Eastern origin, recessive mutations in NCKAP1L abolishing protein expression led to immunodeficiency, lymphoproliferation, and hyperinflammation with features of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Immunophenotyping showed an inverted CD4/CD8 ratio with a major shift of both CD4+ and CD8+ cells toward memory compartments, in line with combined RNA-seq/proteomics analyses revealing a T cell exhaustion signature. Consistent with the core function of NCKAP1L in the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, patients' T cells displayed impaired early activation, immune synapse morphology, and leading edge formation. Moreover, knockdown of nckap1l in zebrafish led to defects in neutrophil migration. Hence, NCKAP1L mutations lead to broad immune dysregulation in humans, which could be classified within actinopathies.
PXD020362	32767647	MS Imaging-Guided Microproteomics for Spatial Omics on a Single Instrument. 	MS imaging-guided microproteomics for spatial omics on a single instrument	laser microdissection, mass spectrometry imaging, microproteomics, spatial omics	Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) allows investigating the spatial distribution of chemical compounds directly in biological tissues. As the analytical depth of MSI is limited, MSI needs to be coupled to more sensitive local extraction-based omics approaches to achieve a comprehensive molecular characterization. For this, it is important to retain the spatial information provided by MSI for follow-up omics studies. It has been shown that regiospecific MSI data can be used to guide a laser microdissection system for ultra-sensitive liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analyses. So far, this combination has required separate and specialized mass spectrometry (MS) instrumentation. Recent advances in dual-source instrumentation, harboring both matrix assisted laser/desorption ionization (MALDI) and electrospray ionization (ESI) sources, promise state-of-the-art MSI and liquid-based proteomic capabilities on the same MS instrument. This study demonstrates that such an instrument can offer both fast lipid-based MSI at high mass and high lateral resolution and sensitive LC-MS on local protein extracts from the exact same tissue section.
PXD020150	32768387	Sirt2 Inhibition Enhances Metabolic Fitness and Effector Functions of Tumor-Reactive T Cells. 	Sirt2 inhibition reprograms T cell metabolism for optimal anti-tumor immunity: Sirt2 Interacting Proteins 2	Glycolysis, Interacting Proteins, Metabolism, Sirtuin 2, T cell	Dysregulated metabolism is a key driver of maladaptive tumor-reactive T lymphocytes within the tumor microenvironment. Actionable targets that rescue the effector activity of antitumor T cells remain elusive. Here, we report that the Sirtuin-2 (Sirt2) NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase inhibits T cell metabolism and impairs T cell effector functions. Remarkably, upregulation of Sirt2 in human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) negatively correlates with response to TIL therapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Mechanistically, Sirt2 suppresses T cell metabolism by targeting key enzymes involved in glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid-cycle, fatty acid oxidation, and glutaminolysis. Accordingly, Sirt2-deficient murine T cells exhibit increased glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation, resulting in enhanced proliferation and effector functions and subsequently exhibiting superior antitumor activity. Importantly, pharmacologic inhibition of Sirt2 endows human TILs with these superior metabolic fitness and effector functions. Our findings unveil Sirt2 as an unexpected actionable target for reprogramming T cell metabolism to augment a broad spectrum of cancer immunotherapies.
PXD015120	32768595	Loss of HIF1A From Pancreatic Cancer Cells Increases Expression of PPP1R1B and Degradation of p53 to Promote Invasion and Metastasis. 	Loss of HIF1A From Pancreatic Cancer Cells Increases Expression of PPP1R1B and Degradation of p53 to Promote Invasion and Metastasis	HIF1 alpha, Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC), Protein Phosphatase 1 Regulatory Inhibitor subunit 1B (PPP1R1B), metastasis	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDACs) are hypovascular, resulting in the up-regulation of hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF1A), which promotes the survival of cells under low-oxygen conditions. We studied the roles of HIF1A in the development of pancreatic tumors in mice. METHODS: We performed studies with Kras(LSL-G12D/+);Trp53(LSL-R172H/+);Pdx1-Cre (KPC) mice, KPC mice with labeled pancreatic epithelial cells (EKPC), and EKPC mice with pancreas-specific depletion of HIF1A. Pancreatic and other tissues were collected and analyzed by histology and immunohistochemistry. Cancer cells were cultured from PDACs from mice and analyzed in cell migration and invasion assays and by immunoblots, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. We performed studies with the human pancreatic cancer cell lines PATU-8988T, BxPC-3, PANC-1, and MiaPACA-2, which have no or low metastatic activity, and PATU-8988S, AsPC-1, SUIT-2 and Capan-1, which have high metastatic activity. Expression of genes was knocked down in primary cancer cells and pancreatic cancer cell lines by using small hairpin RNAs; cells were injected intravenously into immune-competent and NOD/SCID mice, and lung metastases were quantified. We compared levels of messenger RNAs in pancreatic tumors and normal pancreas in The Cancer Genome Atlas. RESULTS: EKPC mice with pancreas-specific deletion of HIF1A developed more advanced pancreatic neoplasias and PDACs with more invasion and metastasis, and had significantly shorter survival times, than EKPC mice. Pancreatic cancer cells from these tumors had higher invasive and metastatic activity in culture than cells from tumors of EKPC mice. HIF1A-knockout pancreatic cancer cells had increased expression of protein phosphatase 1 regulatory inhibitor subunit 1B (PPP1R1B). There was an inverse correlation between levels of HIF1A and PPP1R1B in human PDAC tumors; higher expression of PPP1R1B correlated with shorter survival times of patients. Metastatic human pancreatic cancer cell lines had increased levels of PPP1R1B and lower levels of HIF1A compared with nonmetastatic cancer cell lines; knockdown of PPP1R1B significantly reduced the ability of pancreatic cancer cells to form lung metastases in mice. PPP1R1B promoted degradation of p53 by stabilizing phosphorylation of MDM2 at Ser166. CONCLUSIONS: HIF1A can act a tumor suppressor by preventing the expression of PPP1R1B and subsequent degradation of the p53 protein in pancreatic cancer cells. Loss of HIF1A from pancreatic cancer cells increases their invasive and metastatic activity.
PXD018216	32769093	Slight Deuterium Enrichment in Water Acts as an Antioxidant: Is Deuterium a Cell Growth Regulator? 	Slight deuterium enrichment in water acts as an antioxidant: is deuterium a cell growth regulator?	antioxidant, cell growth regulator, deuterium-enriched water, oxidantion-reduction balance	Small admixtures in water, e.g. of metal ions, often act as cell growth regulators. Here we report that enrichment of deuterium content in water, normally found at 8 mm concentration, two-three folds increases cell proliferation and lowers the oxidative stress level as well. Acting as an anti-oxidant, deuterium-enriched water prevents the toxic effect of such oxidative agents as hydrogen peroxide and auranofin. This action is opposite to that of deuterium depletion that is known to suppress cell growth and induce oxidative stress in mitochondria. We thus hypothesize that deuterium may be a natural cell growth regulator that controls mitochondrial oxidation-reduction balance. Because growth acceleration is reduced approximately by half by addition to water a minute amount (0.15%) of (18)O isotope, at least part of the deuterium effect on cell growth can be explained by the isotopic resonance phenomenon. A slight (=~2-fold) enrichment of deuterium in water accelerates human cell growth. Quantitative MS based proteomics determined changes in protein abundances and redox states and found that deuterium-enriched water acts mainly through decreasing ROS production in mitochondria. This action is opposite to that of deuterium depletion that suppresses cell growth by inducing oxidative stress. Thus deuterium may be a natural cell growth regulator that controls mitochondrial oxidation-reduction balance. The role of isotopic resonance in this effect was validated by further experiments on bacteria.
PXD016476	32769147	A sensitive S-Trap-based approach to the analysis of T cell lipid raft proteome. 	A sensitive S-trap-based approach to the analysis of T-cell raft proteome	FASP, OptiPrep, S-trap, T cell, detergent-free, raftomics	The analysis of T cell lipid raft proteome is challenging due to the highly dynamic nature of rafts and the hydrophobic character of raft-resident proteins. We explored an innovative strategy for bottom-up lipid raftomics based on suspension-trapping (S-Trap) sample preparation. Mouse T cells were prepared from splenocytes by negative immunoselection, and rafts were isolated by a detergent-free method and OptiPrep gradient ultracentrifugation. Microdomains enriched in flotillin-1, LAT, and cholesterol were subjected to proteomic analysis through an optimized protocol based on S-Trap and high pH fractionation, followed by nano-LC-MS/MS. Using this method, we identified 2,680 proteins in the raft-rich fraction and established a database of 894 T cell raft proteins. We then performed a differential analysis on the raft-rich fraction from nonstimulated versus anti-CD3/CD28 T cell receptor (TCR)-stimulated T cells. Our results revealed 42 proteins present in one condition and absent in the other. For the first time, we performed a proteomic analysis on rafts from ex vivo T cells obtained from individual mice, before and after TCR activation. This work demonstrates that the proposed method utilizing an S-Trap-based approach for sample preparation increases the specificity and sensitivity of lipid raftomics.
PXD011358	32769205	A membrane-depolarizing toxin substrate of the Staphylococcus aureus type VII secretion system mediates intraspecies competition. 	Secretomics of the Staphylococcus aureus Type VII protein secretion system	Staphylococcus aureus, T7SS, secretion, secretome	The type VII protein secretion system (T7SS) is conserved across Staphylococcus aureus strains and plays important roles in virulence and interbacterial competition. To date, only one T7SS substrate protein, encoded in a subset of S. aureus genomes, has been functionally characterized. Here, using an unbiased proteomic approach, we identify TspA as a further T7SS substrate. TspA is encoded distantly from the T7SS gene cluster and is found across all S. aureus strains as well as in Listeria and Enterococci. Heterologous expression of TspA from S. aureus strain RN6390 indicates its C-terminal domain is toxic when targeted to the Escherichia coli periplasm and that it depolarizes the cytoplasmic membrane. The membrane-depolarizing activity is alleviated by coproduction of the membrane-bound TsaI immunity protein, which is encoded adjacent to tspA on the S. aureus chromosome. Using a zebrafish hindbrain ventricle infection model, we demonstrate that the T7SS of strain RN6390 promotes bacterial replication in vivo, and deletion of tspA leads to increased bacterial clearance. The toxin domain of TspA is highly polymorphic and S. aureus strains encode multiple tsaI homologs at the tspA locus, suggestive of additional roles in intraspecies competition. In agreement, we demonstrate TspA-dependent growth inhibition of RN6390 by strain COL in the zebrafish infection model that is alleviated by the presence of TsaI homologs.
PXD017481	32771170	Proteome dynamics of the cotyledonary haustorium and endosperm in the course of germination of Euterpe oleracea seeds. 	Proteome Dynamics of the Cotyledonary Haustorium and Endosperm in the Course of Germination of Euterpe oleracea Seeds	Cotyledonary Haustorium, Endosperm, Euterpe oleracea, NanoESI LTQ-Orbitrap Velos, Thermo Q Exactive	The role of the cotyledonary haustorium (CH) in the mobilization of nutrient reserves in the endosperm of species of the palm family Arecaceae is a moot question. To shed light on this matter, we present here an analysis of the quantitative proteome changes associated with four developmental stages of CH and three of endosperm during germination. Together, a total of 1965 proteins were identified, being 1538 in the CH and 960 in the endosperm. Both in the CH and endosperm proteomes, we observed an increase in the diversity of hydrolases as the CH and endosperm develops. Qualitative proteomics analysis of four CH developmental stages indicated that each stage is populated by a unique set of proteins and the quantitative analysis showed an increase in the relative abundance of hydrolases, particularly mannan degrading enzymes, as development progresses. These results add weight to the hypothesis that the CH in the seeds of E. oleraceaacts both as a conduit of carbon and nitrogen sources generated by the hydrolysis of the reserves in the endosperm and as a source of hydrolases that will contribute to the mobilization of these reserves.
PXD017260	32774173	Deciphering the immunogenic potential of wheat flour: a reference map of the salt-soluble proteome from the U.S. wheat Butte 86. 	Deciphering the immunogenic potential of wheat flour: A reference map of the salt-soluble proteome from the U.S. wheat Butte 86	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), albumins/globulins, allergens, celiac disease, non-celiac wheat sensitivity, wheat flour proteome	BACKGROUND: Within the complex wheat flour proteome, the gluten proteins have attracted most of the attention because of their importance in determining the functional properties of wheat flour doughs and their roles in human health conditions such as celiac disease and food allergies. However, certain non-gluten proteins also trigger immunological responses but may be present in flour in low amounts or obscured by the more abundant gluten proteins in two-dimensional gels of total protein preparations. METHODS: Non-gluten proteins were preferentially extracted from the flour with a dilute salt solution and separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Proteins in 173 gel spots were identified by tandem mass spectrometry after cleavage with trypsin or chymotrypsin. Transgenic wheat lines in which specific groups of gluten proteins were suppressed by RNA interference were used to estimate the amount of carry-over of gluten proteins in the salt-soluble protein fraction. RESULTS: Fifty-seven different types of non-gluten proteins were identified, including 14 types that are known or suspected immunogenic proteins. The predominant proteins in 18 gel spots were gluten proteins. Some of these also contained non-gluten proteins. Analysis of the salt-soluble proteins from a transgenic line in which omega-1,2 gliadins were eliminated by RNA interference indicated that certain omega-1,2 gliadins were present in large amounts in the salt-soluble fraction and obscured relatively small amounts of beta-amylase and protein disulfide isomerase. In comparison, analysis of a transgenic line in which alpha gliadins were absent revealed that glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate dehydrogenase was a moderately abundant protein that co-migrated with several alpha gliadins. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we constructed a proteomic map of the non-gluten protein fraction of wheat flour from the US wheat Butte 86 that complements a proteomic map of the total flour proteins developed previously for the same cultivar. Knowing the identities of low abundance proteins in the flour as well as proteins that are hidden by some of the major gluten proteins on two-dimensional gels is critical for studies aimed at assessing the immunogenic potential of wheat flour and determining which wheat proteins that should be targeted in future gene editing experiments to reduce the immunogenic potential of wheat flour.
PXD019343	32774304	A Multiomics Approach Unravels New Toxins With Possible In Silico Antimicrobial, Antiviral, and Antitumoral Activities in the Venom of Acanthoscurria rondoniae. 	A multi-omics approach unravels new toxins with potential antimicrobial, antiviral and antitumoral activities in the venom of Acanthoscurria rondoniae	33 antimicrobial peptides, Acanthoscurria rondoniae, antitumoral peptides, antiviral peptides, cysteine-rich peptides, multi-omics, peptidomics	The Araneae order is considered one of the most successful groups among venomous animals in the world. An important factor for this success is the production of venoms, a refined biological fluid rich in proteins, short peptides and cysteine-rich peptides (CRPs). These toxins may present pharmacologically relevant biological actions, as antimicrobial, antiviral and anticancer activities, for instance. Therefore, there is an increasing interest in the exploration of venom toxins for therapeutic reasons, such as drug development. However, the process of peptide sequencing and mainly the evaluation of potential biological activities of these peptides are laborious, considering the low yield of venom extraction and the high variability of toxins present in spider venoms. Here we show a robust methodology for identification, sequencing, and initial screening of potential bioactive peptides found in the venom of Acanthoscurria rondoniae. This methodology consists in a multiomics approach involving proteomics, peptidomics and transcriptomics analyses allied to in silico predictions of antibacterial, antifungal, antiviral, and anticancer activities. Through the application of this strategy, a total of 92,889 venom gland transcripts were assembled and 84 novel toxins were identified at the protein level, including seven short peptides and 10 fully sequenced CRPs (belonging to seven toxin families). In silico analysis suggests that seven CRPs families may have potential antimicrobial or antiviral activities, while two CRPs and four short peptides are potentially anticancer. Taken together, our results demonstrate an effective multiomics strategy for the discovery of new toxins and in silico screening of potential bioactivities. This strategy may be useful in toxin discovery, as well as in the screening of possible activities for the vast diversity of molecules produced by venomous animals.
PXD012814	32774361	Quantitative Analysis of the Proteome and the Succinylome in the Thyroid Tissue of High-Fat Diet-Induced Hypothyroxinemia in Rats. 	Quantitative analysis of the succinylome in the thyroid tissue of high fat diet induced hypothyroxinemia in rats	Hypothyroxinemia, rat, succinylome	Hypothyroidism is a common disease, and its molecular mechanism still needs further investigation. Lysine succinylation is found to be involved in various metabolic processes associated with hypothyroidism. We performed quantitative analysis on lysine succinylome in thyroids of rats with hypothyroxinemia, which was induced through the administration of a high-fat diet. Overall, 129 differentially expressed proteins were quantified. Downregulated proteins were enriched in the thyroid hormone synthesis and thyroid hormone signaling pathways and were mainly localized in the mitochondria. In addition, 172 lysine succinylation sites on 104 proteins were obviously changed. Decreased succinylated proteins were involved in diverse metabolic pathways and were primarily localized in mitochondria. Finally, the mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates of human normal thyroid epithelial cells were measured to further verify the role of lysine succinylation. The mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates were markedly blunted in the cells treated with palmitic acid (all p < 0.05), and the changes were reversed when the cells were treated with palmitic acid and desuccinylase inhibitor together (all p < 0.05). Thus, we theorize that the thyroid differentially expressed proteins and changed succinylation levels played potential roles in the mitochondria-mediated energy metabolism in the high-fat diet-induced hypothyroxinemia rat model.
PXD020101	32774456	Loss of AA13 LPMOs impairs degradation of resistant starch and reduces the growth of Aspergillus nidulans. 	Loss of AA13 LPMOs impairs degradation of resistant starch and reduces the growth of Aspergillus nidulans	LPMO, aspergillus	BACKGROUND: Lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs) are often studied in simple models involving activity measurements of a single LPMO or a blend thereof with hydrolytic enzymes towards an insoluble substrate. However, the contribution of LPMOs to polysaccharide breakdown in complex cocktails of hydrolytic and oxidative enzymes, similar to fungal secretomes, remains elusive. Typically, two starch-specific AA13 LPMOs are encoded by mainly Ascomycota genomes. Here, we investigate the impact of LPMO loss on the growth and degradation of starches of varying resistance to amylolytic hydrolases by Aspergillus nidulans. RESULTS: Deletion of the genes encoding AnAA13A that possesses a CBM20 starch-binding module, AnAA13B (lacking a CBM20) or both AA13 genes resulted in reduced growth on solid media with resistant, but not soluble processed potato starch. Larger size and amount of residual starch granules were observed for the AA13-deficient strains as compared to the reference and the impairment of starch degradation was more severe for the strain lacking AnAA13A based on a microscopic analysis. After 5 days of growth on raw potato starch in liquid media, the mount of residual starch was about fivefold higher for the AA13 gene deletion strains compared to the reference, which underscores the importance of LPMOs for degradation of especially resistant starches. Proteomic analyses revealed substantial changes in the secretomes of the double AA13 gene deletion, followed by the AnAA13A-deficient strain, whereas only a single protein was significantly different in the proteome of the AnAA13B-deficient strain as compared to the reference. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that the loss of AA13, especially the starch-binding AnAA13A, impairs degradation of resistant potato starch, but has limited impact on less-resistant wheat starch and no impact on processed solubilized starch. The effects of LPMO loss are more pronounced at the later stages of fungal growth, likely due to the accumulation of the less-accessible regions of the substrate. The striking impairment in granular starch degradation due to the loss of a single LPMO from the secretome offers insight into the crucial role played by AA13 in the breakdown of resistant starch and presents a methodological framework to analyse the contribution of distinct LPMOs towards semi-crystalline polysaccharides under in vivo conditions.
PXD013487	32775566	Human cerebrospinal fluid data for use as spectral library, for biomarker research. 	Human cerebrospinal fluid analysis by HPLC-MS/MS	Cerebrospinal fluid, Parkinsons disease, spectral library	Spectral libraries generated by data dependent acquisition (DDA) are a useful tool for the analysis of data created by data independent acquisition (DIA) in mass spectrometry. The quality of DIA analysis is dependent on the quality of the spectral library. We used cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with Parkinson's disease and healthy controls to create a spectral library of human CSF proteome. To this date, there is no validated CSF biomarker for Parkinson's disease. This data set may therefore be valuable for the future analysis of CSF proteins. Part of the samples consisted of fractions that were separated by gel electrophoresis. After tryptic digestion, all samples were spiked with indexed retention time (iRT) peptides and were measured using a DDA mass spectrometry approach. The here provided data set can be used as a CSF-specific spectral library. Data files generated from the described workflow are hosted in the public repository ProteomeXchange under the identifier PXD013487.
PXD017535	32775575	Tandem mass tagged dataset used to characterize muscle-specific proteome changes in beef during early postmortem period. 	Tandem mass tag labeling to characterize muscle-specific proteome change in beef during early postmortem	TMT, muscle-to-meat conversion	Bovine longissimus lumborum (LL) and psoas major (PM) muscles biopsy samples were collected from four carcasses (n = 4) at 45 min, 12 h, and 36 h postmortem from a commercial beef processing facility. Proteins present in the early postmortem LL and PM proteomes were identified and quantified using tandem mass tag (TMT) labelled, fractionated peptides coupled to liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The data are supplied in this article and are related to "Tandem mass tag labeling to characterize muscle-specific proteome changes in beef during early postmortem period" by Zhai et al. [1].
PXD017533	32777074	Hunting monolignol transporters: membrane proteomics and biochemical transport assays with membrane vesicles of Norway spruce. 	Hunting monolignol transporter(s): membrane proteomics and biochemical transport assays with membrane vesicles of Norway spruce	Norway Spruce, Picea abies, lignin biosynthesis, monolignol transport, plasma membrane, transporter proteins	Both the mechanisms of monolignol transport and the transported form of monolignols in developing xylem of trees are unknown. We tested the hypothesis of an active, plasma membrane-localized transport of monolignol monomers, dimers, and/or glucosidic forms with membrane vesicles prepared from developing xylem and lignin-forming tissue-cultured cells of Norway spruce (Picea abies L. Karst.), as well as from control materials, comprising non-lignifying Norway spruce phloem and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) BY-2 cells. Xylem and BY-2 vesicles transported both coniferin and p-coumaryl alcohol glucoside, but inhibitor assays suggested that this transport was through the tonoplast. Membrane vesicles prepared from lignin-forming spruce cells showed coniferin transport, but the Km value for coniferin was much higher than those of xylem and BY-2 cells. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of membrane proteins isolated from spruce developing xylem, phloem, and lignin-forming cultured cells revealed multiple transporters. These were compared with a transporter gene set obtained by a correlation analysis with a selected set of spruce monolignol biosynthesis genes. Biochemical membrane vesicle assays showed no support for ABC-transporter-mediated monolignol transport but point to a role for secondary active transporters (such as MFS or MATE transporters). In contrast, proteomic and co-expression analyses suggested a role for ABC transporters and MFS transporters.
PXD017253	32778764	Impaired chondrocyte U3 snoRNA expression in osteoarthritis impacts the chondrocyte protein translation apparatus. 	IMPAIRED CHONDROCYTE U3 SNORNA EXPRESSION IN OSTEOARTHRITIS AND ITS IMPACT ON THE CHONDROCYTE'S PROTEIN TRANSLATION APARATUS	osteoarthritis, snoRNA, translation	Although pathways controlling ribosome activity have been described to regulate chondrocyte homeostasis in osteoarthritis, ribosome biogenesis in osteoarthritis is unexplored. We hypothesized that U3 snoRNA, a non-coding RNA involved in ribosomal RNA maturation, is critical for chondrocyte protein translation capacity in osteoarthritis. U3 snoRNA was one of a number of snoRNAs with decreased expression in osteoarthritic cartilage and osteoarthritic chondrocytes. OA synovial fluid impacted U3 snoRNA expression by affecting U3 snoRNA gene promoter activity, while BMP7 was able to increase its expression. Altering U3 snoRNA expression resulted in changes in chondrocyte phenotype. Interference with U3 snoRNA expression led to reduction of rRNA levels and translational capacity, whilst induced expression of U3 snoRNA was accompanied by increased 18S and 28S rRNA levels and elevated protein translation. Whole proteome analysis revealed a global impact of reduced U3 snoRNA expression on protein translational processes and inflammatory pathways. For the first time we demonstrate implications of a snoRNA in osteoarthritis chondrocyte biology and investigated its role in the chondrocyte differentiation status, rRNA levels and protein translational capacity.
PXD019451	32780722	Type 2 diabetes risk gene Dusp8 regulates hypothalamic Jnk signaling and insulin sensitivity. 	Type 2 diabetes risk gene Dusp8 is a gatekeeper for hypothalamic Jnk signaling and insulin sensitivity	Dusp8, JNK, Leptin, Type2 Diabetes	Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) identified DUSP8, encoding a dual-specificity phosphatase targeting mitogen-activated protein kinases, as a type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk gene. Here, we reveal that Dusp8 is a gatekeeper in the hypothalamic control of glucose homeostasis in mice and humans. Male, but not female, Dusp8 loss-of-function mice, either with global or corticotropin-releasing hormone neuron-specific deletion, had impaired systemic glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity when exposed to high-fat diet (HFD). Mechanistically, we found impaired hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis feedback, blunted sympathetic responsiveness, and chronically elevated corticosterone levels driven by hypothalamic hyperactivation of Jnk signaling. Accordingly, global Jnk1 ablation, AAV-mediated Dusp8 overexpression in the mediobasal hypothalamus, or metyrapone-induced chemical adrenalectomy rescued the impaired glucose homeostasis of obese male Dusp8-KO mice, respectively. The sex-specific role of murine Dusp8 in governing hypothalamic Jnk signaling, insulin sensitivity, and systemic glucose tolerance was consistent with functional MRI data in human volunteers that revealed an association of the DUSP8 rs2334499 risk variant with hypothalamic insulin resistance in men. Further, expression of DUSP8 was increased in the infundibular nucleus of T2D humans. In summary, our findings suggest the GWAS-identified gene Dusp8 as a novel hypothalamic factor that plays a functional role in the etiology of T2D.
PXD020212	32780727	Comprehensive plasma proteomic profiling reveals biomarkers for active tuberculosis. 	Proteomic Discovery and Validation of Diagnostic Plasma Biomarkers for Pulmonary Tuberculosis	Human Proteome Project, Plasma, Plasma (B/D-HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), WGCNA, biomarkers, hyper-fractionation, iTRAQ, shotgun, tuberculosis	BACKGROUNDTuberculosis (TB) kills more people than any other infection, and new diagnostic tests to identify active cases are required. We aimed to discover and verify novel markers for TB in nondepleted plasma.METHODSWe applied an optimized quantitative proteomics discovery methodology based on multidimensional and orthogonal liquid chromatographic separation combined with high-resolution mass spectrometry to study nondepleted plasma of 11 patients with active TB compared with 10 healthy controls. Prioritized candidates were verified in independent UK (n = 118) and South African cohorts (n = 203).RESULTSWe generated the most comprehensive TB plasma proteome to date, profiling 5022 proteins spanning 11 orders-of-magnitude concentration range with diverse biochemical and molecular properties. We analyzed the predominantly low-molecular weight subproteome, identifying 46 proteins with significantly increased and 90 with decreased abundance (peptide FDR <= 1%, q <= 0.05). Verification was performed for novel candidate biomarkers (CFHR5, ILF2) in 2 independent cohorts. Receiver operating characteristics analyses using a 5-protein panel (CFHR5, LRG1, CRP, LBP, and SAA1) exhibited discriminatory power in distinguishing TB from other respiratory diseases (AUC = 0.81).CONCLUSIONWe report the most comprehensive TB plasma proteome to date, identifying novel markers with verification in 2 independent cohorts, leading to a 5-protein biosignature with potential to improve TB diagnosis. With further development, these biomarkers have potential as a diagnostic triage test.FUNDINGColciencias, Medical Research Council, Innovate UK, NIHR, Academy of Medical Sciences, Program for Advanced Research Capacities for AIDS, Wellcome Centre for Infectious Diseases Research.
PXD016460	32780831	Respiratory Effects of Exposure to Aerosol From the Candidate Modified-Risk Tobacco Product THS 2.2 in an 18-Month Systems Toxicology Study With A/J Mice. 	Respiratory effects of exposure to aerosol from the candidate modified-risk tobacco product THS 2.2 in an 18-month systems toxicology study with A/J mice [Lung data]	Lung, Systems Toxicology, iTRAQ	Smoking cessation is the most effective measure for reducing the risk of smoking-related diseases. However, switching to less harmful products (modified-risk tobacco products [MRTP]) can be an alternative to help reduce the risk for adult smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke. In an 18-month chronic carcinogenicity/toxicity study in A/J mice (OECD Test Guideline 453), we assessed the aerosol of Tobacco Heating System 2.2 (THS 2.2), a candidate MRTP based on the heat-not-burn principle, compared with 3R4F cigarette smoke (CS). To capture toxicity- and disease-relevant mechanisms, we complemented standard toxicology endpoints with in-depth systems toxicology analyses. In this part of our publication series, we report on integrative assessment of the apical and molecular exposure effects on the respiratory tract (nose, larynx, and lungs). Across the respiratory tract, we found changes in inflammatory response following 3R4F CS exposure (eg, antimicrobial peptide response in the nose), with both shared and distinct oxidative and xenobiotic responses. Compared with 3R4F CS, THS 2.2 aerosol exerted far fewer effects on respiratory tract histology, including adaptive tissue changes in nasal and laryngeal epithelium and inflammation and emphysematous changes in the lungs. Integrative analysis of molecular changes confirmed the substantially lower impact of THS 2.2 aerosol than 3R4F CS on toxicologically and disease-relevant molecular processes such as inflammation, oxidative stress responses, and xenobiotic metabolism. In summary, this work exemplifies how apical and molecular endpoints can be combined effectively for toxicology assessment and further supports findings on the reduced respiratory health risks of THS 2.2 aerosol.
PXD016047	32782267	A comprehensive CHO SWATH-MS spectral library for robust quantitative profiling of 10,000 proteins. 	A comprehensive CHO SWATH-MS spectral library for accurate quantitative profiling of 10k proteins	Chinese hamster ovary cells, SWATH-MS, TripleTOF 6600	Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment-ion spectra (SWATH) is a data-independent acquisition (DIA) strategy that requires a specific spectral library to generate unbiased and consistent quantitative data matrices of all peptides. SWATH-MS is a promising approach for in-depth proteomic profiling of Chinese hamster Ovary (CHO) cell lines, improving mechanistic understanding of process optimization, and real-time monitoring of process parameters in biologics R&D and manufacturing. However, no spectral library for CHO cells is publicly available. Here we present a comprehensive CHO global spectral library to measure the abundance of more than 10,000 proteins consisting of 199,102 identified peptides from a CHO-K1 cell proteome. The robustness, accuracy and consistency of the spectral library were validated for high confidence in protein identification and reproducible quantification in different CHO-derived cell lines, instrumental setups and downstream processing samples. The availability of a comprehensive SWATH CHO global spectral library will facilitate detailed characterization of upstream and downstream processes, as well as quality by design (QbD) in biomanufacturing. The data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange (PXD016047).
PXD010723	32782445	Proteomic analysis of synovial fluid from rheumatic arthritis and spondyloarthritis patients. 	Data in support of Proteomic analysis of synovial fluid from rheumatic arthritis and spondyloarthritis patients	Ankylosing Spondylitis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Synovial Fluid	BACKGROUND: The aetiologies and pathogeneses of the joint diseases rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and spondyloarthritis (SpA) are still not fully elucidated. To increase our understanding of the molecular pathogenesis, we analysed the protein composition of synovial fluid (SF) from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and spondyloarthritis (SpA) patients. METHODS: Fifty-six synovial fluid samples (RA, n = 32; SpA, n = 24) were digested with trypsin, and the resulting peptides were separated by liquid chromatography and analysed by tandem mass spectrometry. Additionally, the concentration of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in the synovial fluid was measured, and plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) was determined. RESULTS: Three hundred thirty five proteins were identified within the SF. The more abundant proteins seen in RA SF were inflammatory proteins, including proteins originating from neutrophil granulocytes, while SpA SF had less inflammatory proteins and a higher concentration of haptoglobin. The concentration of cell-free DNA in the SF increased together with proteins that may have originated from neutrophils. Plasma CRP levels in both RA and SpA, correlated to other acute phase reactants. CONCLUSIONS: The proteomic results underline that neutrophils are central in the RA pathology but not in SpA, and even though inhibitors of neutrophils (migration, proteinase inhibitors) were present in the SF it was not sufficient to interrupt the disease process.
PXD015501	32783839	A study on the degradation efficiency of fluoranthene and the transmembrane protein mechanism of Rhodococcus sp. BAP-1 based on iTRAQ. 	A study on degradation efficiency of fluoranthene and membrane protein mechanism of Rhodococcus sp. BAP-1 based on iTRAQ	Comparative membrane proteomic, Fluoranthene, Functional regulation, Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantization (iTRAQ), Rhodococcus sp. BAP-1	Based on previous studies that examined the whole proteome of Rhodococcus sp. BAP-1 during the degradation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), transmembrane proteins have a large role in the degradation of fluoranthene. To further study the specific functions and mechanisms of transmembrane proteins from Rhodococcus sp. BAP-1 involved in the degradation process of fluoranthene, the degradation of PAHs and the membrane permeability were determined. In addition, the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantization (iTRAQ) method were used to conduct a proteomics analysis of Rhodococcus sp. BAP-1 after exposure to fluoranthene for 1 d, 3 d, and 6 d. The results showed that the degradation rate was the highest on the first and sixth days, and the membrane permeability was also the highest on the sixth day. The iTRAQ analysis results showed 18, 29, and 48 upregulated proteins and 111, 97, and 21 downregulated proteins in the 1 d group vs control group, 3 d group vs control group, and 6 d group vs control group samples respectively. According to a Clusters of Orthologous Groups of proteins (COG) analysis, amino acid transport and metabolism are the most important functions. According to functional analysis from the gene ontology (GO) database, the oxidation-reduction process is the most important biological process; transporter activity is the main molecular function; and transmembrane proteins are the most important in the cell composition. This study combined the degradation rate, membrane permeability and transmembrane protein functions to analyze the functions and mechanisms of transmembrane proteins from Rhodococcus sp. BAP-1, which are involved in the degradation of fluoranthene at the protein level, and this study provides a solid foundation for further research on the metabolic processes of bacteria.
PXD020090	32783940	FOXK1 Participates in DNA Damage Response by Controlling 53BP1 Function. 	Identification of novel 53BP1 associated proteins	53BP1	53BP1 plays a central role in dictating DNA repair choice between non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR), which is important for the sensitivity to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis) of BRCA1-deficient cancers. In this study, we show that FOXK1 associates with 53BP1 and regulates 53BP1-dependent functions. FOXK1-53BP1 interaction is significantly enhanced upon DNA damage during the S phase in an ATM/CHK2-dependent manner, which reduces the association of 53BP1 with its downstream factors RIF1 and PTIP. Depletion of FOXK1 impairs DNA repair and induces compromised cell survival upon DNA damage. Overexpression of FOXK1 diminishes 53BP1 foci formation, which leads to resistance to PARPis and elevation of HR in BRCA1-deficient cells and decreased telomere fusion in TRF2-depleted cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that FOXK1 negatively regulates 53BP1 function by inhibiting 53BP1 localization to sites of DNA damage, which alters the DSB-induced protein complexes centering on 53BP1 and thus influences DNA repair choice.
PXD019705	32784357	Phenylpropanoids Are Connected to Cell Wall Fortification and Stress Tolerance in Avocado Somatic Embryogenesis. 	Proteomics study in somatic embryogenesis in avocado	SPS-MS3, TMT, avocado, plant proteomics	Somatic embryogenesis (SE) is a valuable model for understanding the mechanism of plant embryogenesis and a tool for the mass production of plants. However, establishing SE in avocado has been complicated due to the very low efficiency of embryo induction and plant regeneration. To understand the molecular foundation of the SE induction and development in avocado, we compared embryogenic (EC) and non-embryogenic (NEC) cultures of two avocado varieties using proteomic and metabolomic approaches. Although Criollo and Hass EC exhibited similarities in the proteome and metabolome profile, in general, we observed a more active phenylpropanoid pathway in EC than NEC. This pathway is associated with the tolerance of stress responses, probably through the reinforcement of the cell wall and flavonoid production. We could corroborate that particular polyphenolics compounds, including p-coumaric acid and t-ferulic acid, stimulated the production of somatic embryos in avocado. Exogen phenolic compounds were associated with the modification of the content of endogenous polyphenolic and the induction of the production of the putative auxin-a, adenosine, cellulose and 1,26-hexacosanediol-diferulate. We suggest that in EC of avocado, there is an enhanced phenylpropanoid metabolism for the production of the building blocks of lignin and flavonoid compounds having a role in cell wall reinforcement for tolerating stress response. Data are available at ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD019705.
PXD020551	32784406	Complex III Inhibition-Induced Pulmonary Hypertension Affects the Mitochondrial Proteomic Landscape. 	Effect of mitochEffect of mitochondrial complex III chronic inhibition on mitochondrial proteomic landscapeondrial complex III chronic inhibition on mitochondrial proteomic landscape	Antimycin A, mitochodria, pulmonary vasoconstriction, quantitative proteomics	The mitochondria play a vital role in controlling cell metabolism and regulating crucial cellular outcomes. We previously demonstrated that chronic inhibition of the mitochondrial complex III in rats by Antimycin A (AA) induced sustained pulmonary vasoconstriction. On the metabolic level, AA-induced mitochondrial dysfunction resulted in a glycolytic shift that was reported as the primary contributor to pulmonary hypertension pathogenesis. However, the regulatory proteins driving this metabolic shift with complex III inhibition are yet to be explored. Therefore, to delineate the mechanisms, we followed changes in the rat lung mitochondrial proteome throughout AA treatment. Rats treated with AA for up to 24 days showed a disturbed mitochondrial proteome with significant changes in 28 proteins (p < 0.05). We observed a time-dependent decrease in the expression of key proteins that regulate fatty acid oxidation, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, the electron transport chain, and amino acid metabolism, indicating a correlation with diminished mitochondrial function. We also found a significant dysregulation in proteins that controls the protein import machinery and the clearance and detoxification of oxidatively damaged peptides via proteolysis and mitophagy. This could potentially lead to the onset of mitochondrial toxicity due to misfolded protein stress. We propose that chronic inhibition of mitochondrial complex III attenuates mitochondrial function by disruption of the global mitochondrial metabolism. This potentially aggravates cellular proliferation by initiating a glycolytic switch and thereby leads to pulmonary hypertension.
PXD024619	32786473	Free-Flow Isoelectric Focusing for Comprehensive Separation and Analysis of Human Salivary Microbiome for Lung Cancer. 	Free-Flow Isoelectric Focusing for Comprehensive Separation and Analysis of Human Salivary Microbiome for Lung Cancer	metaproteomics	Human microbiome contains billions of microorganisms that play important roles in the biological system and different diseases. Due to its complexity, conventional culture-independent technology may underestimate the value of low-abundance bacteria, which calls for a highly efficient method for its enrichment and comprehensive analysis. In this study, we developed a recycling free-flow isoelectric focusing (RFFIEF) method-based electrophoresis method to separate salivary microbiome. First, we used Escherichia coli (DH5alpha) as a model for RFFIEF method development, which was focused in a narrow pH range (0.38 pH unit). The recovery rate was 80.81% with 5.85% relative standard deviation (n = 5). The optimized method was then adopted to separate the human salivary microbiome into 32 fractions, followed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metaproteomics analysis. After RFFIEF fractionation, we identified 508 bacterial genera, which increased by 225% on average (n = 3) when compared to the results before fractionation. We further compared the compositional change of microbiome in the saliva of lung cancer group (n = 22) and control group (n = 21) through RFFIEF. Quantitative results demonstrated that six bacterial genera were upregulated dramatically in the lung cancer group, while two genera were downregulated. Through qPCR verification in an independent sample set (n = 48), we confirmed that genus Granulicatella was significantly upregulated in the lung cancer group, whereas Pseudomonas was remarkably downregulated (p < 0.001). RFFIEF is an efficient and reproducible technology to fractionate the microbiome for its comprehensive analysis, which can be further applied to the in-depth study of the complex microbiomes and contribute to the discovery of disease-associated bacteria.
PXD019648	32786682	Mass-Spectrometric Detection of SARS-CoV-2 Virus in Scrapings of the Epithelium of the Nasopharynx of Infected Patients via Nucleocapsid N Protein. 	LC-MSMSMass Spectrometric detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus in scrapings of the epithelium of the nasopharynx of infected patients via Nucleocapsid N protein	COVID, COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-COV-2	The detection of viral RNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is currently the main diagnostic tool for COVID-19 ( Eurosurveillance 2019, 25 (3), 1). The PCR-based test, however, shows limited sensitivity, especially in the early and late stages of disease development ( Nature 2020, 581, 465-469; J. Formosan Med. Assoc. 2020, 119 (6) 1123), and is relatively time-consuming. Fast and reliable complementary methods for detecting the viral infection would be of help in the current pandemic conditions. Mass spectrometry is one of such possibilities. We have developed a mass-spectrometry-based method for the detection of the SARS CoV-2 virus in nasopharynx epithelial swabs based on the detection of the viral nucleocapsid N protein. Our approach shows confident identification of the N protein in patient samples, even those with the lowest viral loads, and a much simpler preparation procedure. Our main protocol consists of virus inactivation by heating and the addition of isopropanol and tryptic digestion of the proteins sedimented from the swabs followed by MS analysis. A set of unique peptides, produced as a result of proteolysis of the nucleocapsid phosphoprotein of SARS-CoV-2, is detected. The obtained results can further be used to create fast parallel mass-spectrometric approaches for the detection of the virus in the nasopharyngeal mucosa, saliva, sputum and other physiological fluids.
PXD019243	32786687	Optimization of Protocols for Detection of De Novo Protein Synthesis in Whole Blood Samples via Azide-Alkyne Cycloaddition. 	Optimization of protocols for detection of de novo protein synthesis in whole blood samples via azide-alkyne cycloaddition	De novo protein synthesis, blood-based biomarkers, copper(I)-catalyzed click-chemistry, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, whole blood	Aberrant protein synthesis and protein expression are a hallmark of many conditions ranging from cancer to Alzheimer's. Blood-based biomarkers indicative of changes in proteomes have long been held to be potentially useful with respect to disease prognosis and treatment. However, most biomarker efforts have focused on unlabeled plasma proteomics that include nonmyeloid origin proteins with no attempt to dynamically tag acute changes in proteomes. Herein we report a method for evaluating de novo protein synthesis in whole blood liquid biopsies. Using a modification of the "bioorthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging" (BONCAT) protocol, rodent whole blood samples were incubated with l-azidohomoalanine (AHA) to allow incorporation of this selectively reactive non-natural amino acid within nascent polypeptides. Notably, failure to incubate the blood samples with EDTA prior to implementation of azide-alkyne "click" reactions resulted in the inability to detect probe incorporation. This live-labeling assay was sensitive to inhibition with anisomycin and nascent, tagged polypeptides were localized to a variety of blood cells using FUNCAT. Using labeled rodent blood, these tagged peptides could be consistently identified through standard LC/MS-MS detection of known blood proteins across a variety of experimental conditions. Furthermore, this assay could be expanded to measure de novo protein synthesis in human blood samples. Overall, we present a rapid and convenient de novo protein synthesis assay that can be used with whole blood biopsies that can quantify translational change as well as identify differentially expressed proteins that may be useful for clinical applications.
PXD018790	32786690	A Collision-Induced Dissociation Cleavable Isobaric Tag for Peptide Fragment Ion-Based Quantification in Proteomics. 	A Collision-induced Dissociation Cleavable Isobaric Tag for Peptide Fragment Ion-based Quantification in Proteomics	CID cleavable tag, fragment ion-based quantification, isobaric labelling, isotopic labelling	Quantifying peptides based on unique peptide fragment ions avoids the issue of ratio distortion that is commonly observed for reporter ion-based quantification approaches. Herein, we present a collision-induced dissociation-cleavable, isobaric acetyl-isoleucine-proline-glycine (Ac-IPG) tag, which conserves the merits of quantifying peptides based on unique fragments while reducing the complexity of the b-ion series compared to conventional fragment ion-based quantification methods thus facilitating data processing. Multiplex labeling is based on selective N-terminal dimethylation followed by derivatization of the epsilon-amino group of the C-terminal Lys residue of LysC peptides with isobaric Ac-IPG tags having complementary isotope distributions on Pro-Gly and Ac-Ile. Upon fragmentation between Ile and Pro, the resulting y ions, with the neutral loss of Ac-Ile, can be distinguished between the different labeling channels based on different numbers of isotope labels on the Pro-Gly part and thus contain the information for relative quantification, while b ions of different labeling channels have the same m/z values. The proteome quantification capability of this method was demonstrated by triplex labeling of a yeast proteome spiked with bovine serum albumin (BSA) over a 10-fold dynamic range. With the yeast proteins as the background, BSA was detected at ratios of 1.14:5.06:9.78 when spiked at 1:5:10 ratios. The raw mass data is available on the ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD 018790.
PXD020217	32786892	Detection of Tear Components Using Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization/Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry for Rapid Dry Eye Diagnosis. 	Human Tear using MALDI-TOF-MS for Dry Eye syndrome	Extracellular vesicles, MALDI-TOF MS, Tear, dry eye syndrome	The tear is a biological fluid that has the diagnostic potential for ocular diseases. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), widly detected in various biofluids including tears, are nanoparticles released by living cells and considered as promising detection sources for noninvasive liquid biopsy. Understanding the roles of tears and tear-EVs in ocular diseases such as dry eye can facilitate the studies of clinical diagnosis, which usually entails detecting such liquid objects with a rapid and effective method. In this study, we used a mass spectrometry-based strategy to analyze peptidome/proteome profiles of tears and EVs for rapid dry eye diagnosis. Nanosized EVs were isolated from tears of both healthy control (HC) individuals and dry eye syndrome (DES) patients, and the tear compositions were further analyzed by tracking their fingerprints with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The fingerprints of tear-EVs could be observed in a dose-dependent manner and tears, allowing for comparison of the discriminant peaks between tears and EVs. By analyzing these peaks, the fingerprints of both tear and tear-EVs were showed to have the capability of distinguishing patients with DES from HC donors and providing an efficient way for screening potential DES biomarkers. The proposed tear and EV fingerprinting approach is expected to be a potential tool in the rapid diagnosis of ocular diseases and in-depth research on pathogenesis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020217.
PXD016732	32788226	MIC26 and MIC27 cooperate to regulate cardiolipin levels and the landscape of OXPHOS complexes. 	Complexome profiling of MICOS complex, impact of subunits MIC26 and MIC27	MICOS, complexome profiling, oxidative phosphorylation system	Homologous apolipoproteins of MICOS complex, MIC26 and MIC27, show an antagonistic regulation of their protein levels, making it difficult to deduce their individual functions using a single gene deletion. We obtained single and double knockout (DKO) human cells of MIC26 and MIC27 and found that DKO show more concentric onion-like cristae with loss of CJs than any single deletion indicating overlapping roles in formation of CJs. Using a combination of complexome profiling, STED nanoscopy, and blue-native gel electrophoresis, we found that MIC26 and MIC27 are dispensable for the stability and integration of the remaining MICOS subunits into the complex suggesting that they assemble late into the MICOS complex. MIC26 and MIC27 are cooperatively required for the integrity of respiratory chain (super) complexes (RCs/SC) and the F1Fo-ATP synthase complex and integration of F1 subunits into the monomeric F1Fo-ATP synthase. While cardiolipin was reduced in DKO cells, overexpression of cardiolipin synthase in DKO restores the stability of RCs/SC. Overall, we propose that MIC26 and MIC27 are cooperatively required for global integrity and stability of multimeric OXPHOS complexes by modulating cardiolipin levels.
PXD013139	32788343	Multiomics Reveals Ectopic ATP Synthase Blockade Induces Cancer Cell Death via a lncRNA-mediated Phospho-signaling Network. 	Targeting the E2F1/GAS5/p53 Axis as a Potential Therapeutic Strategy for Gefitinib-Resistant Lung Cancer	LncRNA-interactomics, ectopic ATP synthase, gefitinib resistance, lung cancer	The EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor gefitinib is commonly used for lung cancer patients. However, some patients eventually become resistant to gefitinib and develop progressive disease. Here, we indicate that ecto-ATP synthase, which ectopically translocated from mitochondrial inner membrane to plasma membrane, is considered as a potential therapeutic target for drug-resistant cells. Quantitative multi-omics profiling reveals that ecto-ATP synthase inhibitor mediates CK2-dependent phosphorylation of DNA topoisomerase IIalpha (topo IIalpha) at serine 1106 and subsequently increases the expression of long noncoding RNA, GAS5. Additionally, we also determine that downstream of GAS5, p53 pathway, is activated by ecto-ATP synthase inhibitor for regulation of programed cell death. Interestingly, GAS5-proteins interactomic profiling elucidates that GAS5 associates with topo IIalpha and subsequently enhancing the phosphorylation level of topo IIalpha. Taken together, our findings suggest that ecto-ATP synthase blockade is an effective therapeutic strategy via regulation of CK2/phospho-topo IIalpha/GAS5 network in gefitinib-resistant lung cancer cells.
PXD020721	32789493	The deacetylase SIRT6 promotes the repair of UV-induced DNA damage by targeting DDB2. 	The function of sirtuin family in NER	nucleotide excision repair, sirtuin family	The NAD+-dependent deacetylase and mono-ADP-ribosyl transferase SIRT6 stabilizes the genome by promoting DNA double strand break repair, thereby acting as a tumor suppressor. However, whether SIRT6 regulates nucleotide excision repair (NER) remains unknown. Here, we showed that SIRT6 was recruited to sites of UV-induced DNA damage and stimulated the repair of UV-induced DNA damage. Mechanistic studies further indicated that SIRT6 interacted with DDB2, the major sensor initiating global genome NER (GG-NER), and that the interaction was enhanced upon UV irradiation. SIRT6 deacetylated DDB2 at two lysine residues, K35 and K77, upon UV stress and then promoted DDB2 ubiquitination and segregation from chromatin, thereby facilitating downstream signaling. In addition, we characterized several SIRT6 mutations derived from melanoma patients. These SIRT6 mutants ablated the stimulatory effect of SIRT6 on NER and destabilized the genome due to (i) partial loss of enzymatic activity (P27S or H50Y), (ii) a nonsense mutation (R150*) or (iii) high turnover rates (G134W). Overall, we demonstrate that SIRT6 promotes NER by deacetylating DDB2, thereby preventing the onset of melanomagenesis.
PXD009182	32789689	Reciprocal regulation of Aurora kinase A and ATIP3 in the control of metaphase spindle length. 	ATIP3-interacting partners    .	GFP, GFP-ATIP3, MCF-7 cell line, breast cancer, immunoprecipitation	Maintaining the integrity of the mitotic spindle in metaphase is essential to ensure normal cell division. We show here that depletion of microtubule-associated protein ATIP3 reduces metaphase spindle length. Mass spectrometry analyses identified the microtubule minus-end depolymerizing kinesin Kif2A as an ATIP3 binding protein. We show that ATIP3 controls metaphase spindle length by interacting with Kif2A and its partner Dda3 in an Aurora kinase A-dependent manner. In the absence of ATIP3, Kif2A and Dda3 accumulate at spindle poles, which is consistent with reduced poleward microtubule flux and shortening of the spindle. ATIP3 silencing also limits Aurora A localization to the poles. Transfection of GFP-Aurora A, but not kinase-dead mutant, rescues the phenotype, indicating that ATIP3 maintains Aurora A activity on the poles to control Kif2A targeting and spindle size. Collectively, these data emphasize the pivotal role of Aurora kinase A and its mutual regulation with ATIP3 in controlling spindle length.
PXD012410	32792008	Proteomic analysis revealed common, unique and systemic signatures in gender-dependent hepatocarcinogenesis. 	Common, Unique and Systemic Signatures in gender-dependent hepatic tumorigenesis: a TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis	Gender disparity, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Ras oncogene, Tandem-Mass-Tag (TMT)	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common liver cancer and is highly malignant. Male prevalence and frequent activation of the Ras signaling pathway are distinct characteristics of HCC. However, the underlying mechanisms remain to be elucidated. By exploring Hras12V transgenic mice showing male-biased hepatocarcinogenesis, we performed a high-throughput comparative proteomic analysis based on tandem-mass-tag (TMT) labeling combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) on the tissue samples obtained from HCC (T) and their paired adjacent precancerous (P) of Hras12V transgenic male and female mice (Ras-Tg) and normal liver (W) of wild-type male and female mice (Non-Tg). The further validation and investigation were performed using quantitative real-time PCR and western blot. Totally, 5193 proteins were quantified, originating from 5733 identified proteins. Finally, 1344 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) (quantified in all examined samples; |ratios| >= 1.5, p < 0.05) were selected for further analysis. Comparison within W, P, and T of males and females indicated that the number of DEPs in males was much higher than that in females. Bioinformatics analyses showed the common and unique cluster-enriched items between sexes, indicating the common and gender-disparate pathways towards HCC. Expression change pattern analysis revealed HCC positive/negative-correlated and ras oncogene positive/negative-correlated DEPs and pathways. In addition, it showed that the ras oncogene gradually and significantly reduced the responses to sex hormones from hepatocytes to hepatoma cells and therefore shrunk the gender disparity between males and females, which may contribute to the cause of the loss of HCC clinical responses to the therapeutic approaches targeting sex hormone pathways. Additionally, gender disparity in the expression levels of key enzymes involved in retinol metabolism and terpenoid backbone/steroid biosynthesis pathways may contribute to male prevalence in hepatocarcinogenesis. Further, the biomarkers, SAA2, Orm2, and Serpina1e, may be sex differences. In conclusion, common and unique DEPs and pathways toward HCC initiated by ras oncogene from sexually dimorphic hepatocytes provide valuable and novel insights into clinical investigation and practice.
PXD020128	32792488	ABHD11 maintains 2-oxoglutarate metabolism by preserving functional lipoylation of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. 	ABHD11 maintains 2-oxoglutarate metabolism by preserving functional lipoylation of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex	2-oxoglutarate, 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex, ABHD11, Hypoxia Inducible Factor, lipid peroxidation, lipoic acid, lipoylation, alpha-ketoglutarate, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex	2-oxoglutarate (2-OG or alpha-ketoglutarate) relates mitochondrial metabolism to cell function by modulating the activity of 2-OG dependent dioxygenases involved in the hypoxia response and DNA/histone modifications. However, metabolic pathways that regulate these oxygen and 2-OG sensitive enzymes remain poorly understood. Here, using CRISPR Cas9 genome-wide mutagenesis to screen for genetic determinants of 2-OG levels, we uncover a redox sensitive mitochondrial lipoylation pathway, dependent on the mitochondrial hydrolase ABHD11, that signals changes in mitochondrial 2-OG metabolism to 2-OG dependent dioxygenase function. ABHD11 loss or inhibition drives a rapid increase in 2-OG levels by impairing lipoylation of the 2-OG dehydrogenase complex (OGDHc)-the rate limiting step for mitochondrial 2-OG metabolism. Rather than facilitating lipoate conjugation, ABHD11 associates with the OGDHc and maintains catalytic activity of lipoyl domain by preventing the formation of lipoyl adducts, highlighting ABHD11 as a regulator of functional lipoylation and 2-OG metabolism.
PXD015670	32792512	Ybx1 fine-tunes PRC2 activities to control embryonic brain development. 	Identification of JARID2/PRC2 interactome in human embryonic stem cells	JARID2, PRC2, human embryonic stem cells, pluripotency	Chromatin modifiers affect spatiotemporal gene expression programs that underlie organismal development. The Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) is a crucial chromatin modifier in executing neurodevelopmental programs. Here, we find that PRC2 interacts with the nucleic acid-binding protein Ybx1. In the mouse embryo in vivo, Ybx1 is required for forebrain specification and restricting mid-hindbrain growth. In neural progenitor cells (NPCs), Ybx1 controls self-renewal and neuronal differentiation. Mechanistically, Ybx1 highly overlaps PRC2 binding genome-wide, controls PRC2 distribution, and inhibits H3K27me3 levels. These functions are consistent with Ybx1-mediated promotion of genes involved in forebrain specification, cell proliferation, or neuronal differentiation. In Ybx1-knockout NPCs, H3K27me3 reduction by PRC2 enzymatic inhibitor or genetic depletion partially rescues gene expression and NPC functions. Our findings suggest that Ybx1 fine-tunes PRC2 activities to regulate spatiotemporal gene expression in embryonic neural development and uncover a crucial epigenetic mechanism balancing forebrain-hindbrain lineages and self-renewal-differentiation choices in NPCs.
PXD018139	32793123	Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics Unravels the Effects of Iron Ions on Coronatine Synthesis in Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000. 	Data-Independent Acquisition Proteomics Unravels the Effects of Iron Ions on Coronatine Synthesis in Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000		Coronatine (COR) is a new type of plant growth regulator that is produced by Pseudomonas syringae pathovars and plays an important role in modulating plant growth, development, and tolerance to multiple stresses. However, the factors affecting COR production are not very clear. In this study, the effects of FeCl3 on COR production were researched. The data-independent acquisition (DIA) approach, which is a proteomic quantitative analysis method, was applied to quantitatively trace COR production and proteomic changes in P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 under different FeCl3 culture conditions. The results showed that COR production increased with the addition of FeCl3 and that there was significant upregulation in the expression of proteins related to COR synthesis and regulation. In addition, FeCl3 also affected the expression of related proteins involved in various metabolic pathways such as glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Moreover, various precursors such as isoleucine and succinate semialdehyde, as well as other related proteins involved in the COR synthesis pathway, were significantly differentially expressed. Our findings revealed the dynamic regulation of COR production in response to FeCl3 at the protein level and showed the potential of using the DIA method to track the dynamic changes of the P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 proteome during COR production, providing an important reference for future research on the regulatory mechanism of COR biosynthesis and theoretical support for COR fermentation production.
PXD017900	32793586	MicroRNA339 Targeting PDXK Improves Motor Dysfunction and Promotes Neurite Growth in the Remote Cortex Subjected to Spinal Cord Transection. 	Rats cortex proteomics mass spectrometry analysis	Rat,cortex,proteomics mass spectrometry analysis	Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a fatal disease that can cause severe disability. Cortical reorganization subserved the recovery of spontaneous function after SCI, although the potential molecular mechanism in this remote control is largely unknown. Therefore, using proteomics analysis, RNA interference/overexpression, and CRISPR/Cas9 in vivo and in vitro, we analyzed how the molecular network functions in neurological improvement, especially in the recovery of motor function after spinal cord transection (SCT) via the remote regulation of cerebral cortex. We discovered that the overexpression of pyridoxal kinase (PDXK) in the motor cortex enhanced neuronal growth and survival and improved locomotor function in the hindlimb. In addition, PDXK was confirmed as a target of miR-339 but not miR-124. MiR-339 knockout (KO) significantly increased the neurite outgrowth and decreased cell apoptosis in cortical neurons. Moreover, miR-339 KO rats exhibited functional recovery indicated by improved Basso, Beattie, and Bresnehan (BBB) score. Furthermore, bioinformatics prediction showed that PDXK was associated with GAP43, a crucial molecule related to neurite growth and functional improvement. The current research therefore confirmed that miR-339 targeting PDXK facilitated neurological recovery in the motor cortex of SCT rats, and the underlying mechanism was associated with regulating GAP43 in the remote cortex of rats subjected to SCT. These findings may uncover a new understanding of remoting cortex control following SCI and provide a new therapeutic strategy for the recovery of SCI in future clinical trials.
PXD013542	32795391	Splicing variation of BMP2K balances abundance of COPII assemblies and autophagic degradation in erythroid cells. 	BMP2K is an inhibitor of erythroid differentiation that restricts endocytosis and SEC16A-dependent autophagy	BioID, HEK293	Intracellular transport undergoes remodeling upon cell differentiation, which involves cell type-specific regulators. Bone morphogenetic protein 2-inducible kinase (BMP2K) has been potentially implicated in endocytosis and cell differentiation but its molecular functions remained unknown. We discovered that its longer (L) and shorter (S) splicing variants regulate erythroid differentiation in a manner unexplainable by their involvement in AP-2 adaptor phosphorylation and endocytosis. However, both variants interact with SEC16A and could localize to the juxtanuclear secretory compartment. Variant-specific depletion approach showed that BMP2K isoforms constitute a BMP2K-L/S regulatory system that controls the distribution of SEC16A and SEC24B as well as SEC31A abundance at COPII assemblies. Finally, we found L to promote and S to restrict autophagic degradation and erythroid differentiation. Hence, we propose that BMP2K-L and BMP2K-S differentially regulate abundance and distribution of COPII assemblies as well as autophagy, possibly thereby fine-tuning erythroid differentiation.
PXD018301	32795414	Extracellular Vesicle and Particle Biomarkers Define Multiple Human Cancers. 	Tissue- and plasma-derived exosomal protein biomarkers define multiple human cancers	Biomarkers, Cancer, Early cancer detection, Exosomes, Extracellular vesicles, Liquid biopsy	There is an unmet clinical need for improved tissue and liquid biopsy tools for cancer detection. We investigated the proteomic profile of extracellular vesicles and particles (EVPs) in 426 human samples from tissue explants (TEs), plasma, and other bodily fluids. Among traditional exosome markers, CD9, HSPA8, ALIX, and HSP90AB1 represent pan-EVP markers, while ACTB, MSN, and RAP1B are novel pan-EVP markers. To confirm that EVPs are ideal diagnostic tools, we analyzed proteomes of TE- (n = 151) and plasma-derived (n = 120) EVPs. Comparison of TE EVPs identified proteins (e.g., VCAN, TNC, and THBS2) that distinguish tumors from normal tissues with 90% sensitivity/94% specificity. Machine-learning classification of plasma-derived EVP cargo, including immunoglobulins, revealed 95% sensitivity/90% specificity in detecting cancer. Finally, we defined a panel of tumor-type-specific EVP proteins in TEs and plasma, which can classify tumors of unknown primary origin. Thus, EVP proteins can serve as reliable biomarkers for cancer detection and determining cancer type.
PXD020055	32796510	Premature Activation of Immune Transcription Programs in Autoimmune-Predisposed Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells and Blastocysts. 	Expression profiling of mouse embryonic stem cells by mass spectrometry	B6, ESC, NOD	Autoimmune diabetes is a complex multifactorial disease with genetic and environmental factors playing pivotal roles. While many genes associated with the risk of diabetes have been identified to date, the mechanisms by which external triggers contribute to the genetic predisposition remain unclear. Here, we derived embryonic stem (ES) cell lines from diabetes-prone non-obese diabetic (NOD) and healthy C57BL/6 (B6) mice. While overall pluripotency markers were indistinguishable between newly derived NOD and B6 ES cells, we discovered several differentially expressed genes that normally are not expressed in ES cells. Several genes that reside in previously identified insulin-dependent diabetics (Idd) genomic regions were up-regulated in NOD ES cells. Gene set enrichment analysis showed that different groups of genes associated with immune functions are differentially expressed in NOD. Transcriptomic analysis of NOD blastocysts validated several differentially overexpressed Idd genes compared to B6. Genome-wide mapping of active histone modifications using ChIP-Seq supports active expression as the promoters and enhancers of activated genes are also marked by active histone modifications. We have also found that NOD ES cells secrete more inflammatory cytokines. Our data suggest that the known genetic predisposition of NOD to autoimmune diabetes leads to epigenetic instability of several Idd regions.
PXD021034	32804083	Mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis coordinates oxidative metabolism in mammalian mitochondria. 	Mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis coordinates oxidative metabolism in mammalian mitochondria	Mitochondria, OXPHOS, electron transport chain, fatty acid synthesis, lipoylation TCA cycle, metabolism, muscle, reductive carboxylation, respiration	Cells harbor two systems for fatty acid synthesis, one in the cytoplasm (catalyzed by fatty acid synthase, FASN) and one in the mitochondria (mtFAS). In contrast to FASN, mtFAS is poorly characterized, especially in higher eukaryotes, with the major product(s), metabolic roles, and cellular function(s) being essentially unknown. Here we show that hypomorphic mtFAS mutant mouse skeletal myoblast cell lines display a severe loss of electron transport chain (ETC) complexes and exhibit compensatory metabolic activities including reductive carboxylation. This effect on ETC complexes appears to be independent of protein lipoylation, the best characterized function of mtFAS, as mutants lacking lipoylation have an intact ETC. Finally, mtFAS impairment blocks the differentiation of skeletal myoblasts in vitro. Together, these data suggest that ETC activity in mammals is profoundly controlled by mtFAS function, thereby connecting anabolic fatty acid synthesis with the oxidation of carbon fuels.
PXD015251	32807789	Identifying proteins bound to native mitotic ESC chromosomes reveals chromatin repressors are important for compaction. 	Analysis of factors bound to native metaphase ESC chromosomes following purification by flow cytometry	Mitosis, chromatin, chromosomes, stem cells	Epigenetic information is transmitted from mother to daughter cells through mitosis. Here, to identify factors that might play a role in conveying epigenetic memory through cell division, we report on the isolation of unfixed, native chromosomes from metaphase-arrested cells using flow cytometry and perform LC-MS/MS to identify chromosome-bound proteins. A quantitative proteomic comparison between metaphase-arrested cell lysates and chromosome-sorted samples reveals a cohort of proteins that were significantly enriched on mitotic ESC chromosomes. These include pluripotency-associated transcription factors, repressive chromatin-modifiers such as PRC2 and DNA methyl-transferases, and proteins governing chromosome architecture. Deletion of PRC2, Dnmt1/3a/3b or Mecp2 in ESCs leads to an increase in the size of individual mitotic chromosomes, consistent with de-condensation. Similar results were obtained by the experimental cleavage of cohesin. Thus, we identify chromosome-bound factors in pluripotent stem cells during mitosis and reveal that PRC2, DNA methylation and Mecp2 are required to maintain chromosome compaction.
PXD019316	32807790	Vulnerability of progeroid smooth muscle cells to biomechanical forces is mediated by MMP13. 	Vulnerability of Progeroid Smooth Muscle Cells to biomechanical forces is mediated by MMP13	Progeria, aging, disease modelling, induced pluripotent stem cells, therapies	Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) is a premature aging disease in children that leads to early death. Smooth muscle cells (SMCs) are the most affected cells in HGPS individuals, although the reason for such vulnerability remains poorly understood. In this work, we develop a microfluidic chip formed by HGPS-SMCs generated from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), to study their vulnerability to flow shear stress. HGPS-iPSC SMCs cultured under arterial flow conditions detach from the chip after a few days of culture; this process is mediated by the upregulation of metalloprotease 13 (MMP13). Importantly, double-mutant Lmna(G609G/G609G)Mmp13(-/-) mice or Lmna(G609G/G609G)Mmp13(+/+) mice treated with a MMP inhibitor show lower SMC loss in the aortic arch than controls. MMP13 upregulation appears to be mediated, at least in part, by the upregulation of glycocalyx. Our HGPS-SMCs chip represents a platform for developing treatments for HGPS individuals that may complement previous pre-clinical and clinical treatments.
PXD018374	32807795	Selective inhibition of STAT3 signaling using monobodies targeting the coiled-coil and N-terminal domains. 	Tandem affinity purification of monobodies against STAT3	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), STAT3, TAP, monobody	The transcription factor STAT3 is frequently activated in human solid and hematological malignancies and remains a challenging therapeutic target with no approved drugs to date. Here, we develop synthetic antibody mimetics, termed monobodies, to interfere with STAT3 signaling. These monobodies are highly selective for STAT3 and bind with nanomolar affinity to the N-terminal and coiled-coil domains. Interactome analysis detects no significant binding to other STATs or additional off-target proteins, confirming their exquisite specificity. Intracellular expression of monobodies fused to VHL, an E3 ubiquitin ligase substrate receptor, results in degradation of endogenous STAT3. The crystal structure of STAT3 in complex with monobody MS3-6 reveals bending of the coiled-coil domain, resulting in diminished DNA binding and nuclear translocation. MS3-6 expression strongly inhibits STAT3-dependent transcriptional activation and disrupts STAT3 interaction with the IL-22 receptor. Therefore, our study establishes innovative tools to interfere with STAT3 signaling by different molecular mechanisms.
PXD015482	32807798	Widespread protein lysine acetylation in gut microbiome and its alterations in patients with Crohn's disease. 	Lysine acetylation in human fecal microbiome	lysine acetylation, metaproteomics, microbiome	Lysine acetylation (Kac), an abundant post-translational modification (PTM) in prokaryotes, regulates various microbial metabolic pathways. However, no studies have examined protein Kac at the microbiome level, and it remains unknown whether Kac level is altered in patient microbiomes. Herein, we use a peptide immuno-affinity enrichment strategy coupled with mass spectrometry to characterize protein Kac in the microbiome, which successfully identifies 35,200 Kac peptides from microbial or human proteins in gut microbiome samples. We demonstrate that Kac is widely distributed in gut microbial metabolic pathways, including anaerobic fermentation to generate short-chain fatty acids. Applying to the analyses of microbiomes of patients with Crohn's disease identifies 52 host and 136 microbial protein Kac sites that are differentially abundant in disease versus controls. This microbiome-wide acetylomic approach aids in advancing functional microbiome research.
PXD018563	32807891	Mitochondrial dysfunction caused by outer membrane vesicles from Gram-negative bacteria activates intrinsic apoptosis and inflammation. 	Mitochondrial dysfunction caused by bacterial outer membranes vesicles activates intrinsic apoptosis and inflammation	Neisseria, OMV, apoptosis, bacteria, cell death, inflammation, macrophage, mitochondria, pyroptosis, toxin	Sensing of microbes activates the innate immune system, depending on functional mitochondria. However, pathogenic bacteria inhibit mitochondrial activity by delivering toxins via outer membrane vesicles (OMVs). How macrophages respond to pathogenic microbes that target mitochondria remains unclear. Here, we show that macrophages exposed to OMVs from Neisseria gonorrhoeae, uropathogenic Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa induce mitochondrial apoptosis and NLRP3 inflammasome activation. OMVs and toxins that cause mitochondrial dysfunction trigger inhibition of host protein synthesis, which depletes the unstable BCL-2 family member MCL-1 and induces BAK-dependent mitochondrial apoptosis. In parallel with caspase-11-mediated pyroptosis, mitochondrial apoptosis and potassium ion efflux activate the NLRP3 inflammasome after OMV exposure in vitro. Importantly, in the in vivo setting, the activation and release of interleukin-1beta in response to N. gonorrhoeae OMVs is regulated by mitochondrial apoptosis. Our data highlight how innate immune cells sense infections by monitoring mitochondrial health.
PXD016014	32807965	Targeting a helix-in-groove interaction between E1 and E2 blocks ubiquitin transfer. 	Inhibition of Ubiquitin Thioester Transfer by Targeting a Helix-in-Groove Interaction between E1 and E2	HDXMS, Protein degradation, conformational change, hydrogen deuterium exchange, ubiquitin ligase	The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is a highly regulated protein disposal process critical to cell survival. Inhibiting the pathway induces proteotoxic stress and can be an effective cancer treatment. The therapeutic window observed upon proteasomal blockade has motivated multiple UPS-targeting strategies, including preventing ubiquitination altogether. E1 initiates the cascade by transferring ubiquitin to E2 enzymes. A small molecule that engages the E1 ATP-binding site and derivatizes ubiquitin disrupts enzymatic activity and kills cancer cells. However, binding-site mutations cause resistance, motivating alternative approaches to block this promising target. We identified an interaction between the E2 N-terminal alpha-1 helix and a pocket within the E1 ubiquitin-fold domain as a potentially druggable site. Stapled peptides modeled after the E2 alpha-1 helix bound to the E1 groove, induced a consequential conformational change and inhibited E1 ubiquitin thiotransfer, disrupting E2 ubiquitin charging and ubiquitination of cellular proteins. Thus, we provide a blueprint for a distinct E1-targeting strategy to treat cancer.
PXD017993	32811146	Phosphorylation Ratio Determination in Fresh-Frozen and Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded Tissue with Targeted Mass Spectrometry. 	Phosphorylation ratio determination in fresh frozen and formalin-fixed paraffin embedded tissue with targeted mass spectrometry	Cancer proteomics, Clinical proteomics, FFPE, PRM, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphorylation ratio, Quantitative proteomics, Targeted mass spectrometry	Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues are routinely prepared and collected for diagnostics in pathology departments. These are, therefore, the most accessible research sources in pathology archives. In this study we investigated whether we can apply a targeted and quantitative parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) method for FFPE tissue samples in a sensitive and reproducible way. The feasibility of this technical approach was demonstrated for normal brain and glioblastoma multiforme tissues. Two methods were used: PRM measurement of a tryptic digest without phosphopeptide enrichment (Direct-PRM) and after Fe-NTA phosphopeptide enrichment (Fe-NTA-PRM). With these two methods, the phosphorylation ratio could be determined for four selected peptide pairs that originate from neuroblast differentiation-associated protein (AHNAK S5448-p), calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II subunit delta (CAMK2D T337-p), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4B (EIF4B S93-p), and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR S1166-p). In normal brain FFPE tissues, the Fe-NTA-PRM method enabled the quantification of targeted phosphorylated peptides with high reproducibility (CV < 14%). Our results indicate that formalin fixation does not impede relative quantification of a phospho-site and its phosphorylation ratio in FFPE tissues. The developed workflow combining these methods opens ways to study archival FFPE tissues for phosphorylation ratio determination in proteins.
PXD017866	32811973	Phosphorylation by Aurora B kinase regulates caspase-2 activity and function. 	Aurora kinase B-dependent phosphorylation regulates caspase-2 activity and function	Aurorka kinase, Caspase 2, phosphorylation	Mitotic catastrophe (MC) is an important oncosuppressive mechanism that serves to eliminate cells that become polyploid or aneuploid due to aberrant mitosis. Previous studies have demonstrated that the activation and catalytic function of caspase-2 are key steps in MC to trigger apoptosis and/or cell cycle arrest of mitotically defective cells. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate caspase-2 activation and its function are unclear. Here, we identify six new phosphorylation sites in caspase-2 and show that a key mitotic kinase, Aurora B kinase (AURKB), phosphorylates caspase-2 at the highly conserved residue S384. We demonstrate that phosphorylation at S384 blocks caspase-2 catalytic activity and apoptosis function in response to mitotic insults, without affecting caspase-2 dimerisation. Moreover, molecular modelling suggests that phosphorylation at S384 may affect substrate binding by caspase-2. We propose that caspase-2 S384 phosphorylation by AURKB is a key mechanism that controls caspase-2 activation during mitosis.
PXD018629	32812023	Phosphorylated tau interactome in the human Alzheimer's disease brain. 	Phosphorylated Tau Interactome in the Human Alzheimers Disease Brain	AD, Tau, affinity purifications, label-free, laser capture microdissection, neurofibrillary tangles	Accumulation of phosphorylated tau is a key pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease. Phosphorylated tau accumulation causes synaptic impairment, neuronal dysfunction and formation of neurofibrillary tangles. The pathological actions of phosphorylated tau are mediated by surrounding neuronal proteins; however, a comprehensive understanding of the proteins that phosphorylated tau interacts with in Alzheimer's disease is surprisingly limited. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the phosphorylated tau interactome. To this end, we used two complementary proteomics approaches: (i) quantitative proteomics was performed on neurofibrillary tangles microdissected from patients with advanced Alzheimer's disease; and (ii) affinity purification-mass spectrometry was used to identify which of these proteins specifically bound to phosphorylated tau. We identified 542 proteins in neurofibrillary tangles. This included the abundant detection of many proteins known to be present in neurofibrillary tangles such as tau, ubiquitin, neurofilament proteins and apolipoprotein E. Affinity purification-mass spectrometry confirmed that 75 proteins present in neurofibrillary tangles interacted with PHF1-immunoreactive phosphorylated tau. Twenty-nine of these proteins have been previously associated with phosphorylated tau, therefore validating our proteomic approach. More importantly, 34 proteins had previously been associated with total tau, but not yet linked directly to phosphorylated tau (e.g. synaptic protein VAMP2, vacuolar-ATPase subunit ATP6V0D1); therefore, we provide new evidence that they directly interact with phosphorylated tau in Alzheimer's disease. In addition, we also identified 12 novel proteins, not previously known to be physiologically or pathologically associated with tau (e.g. RNA binding protein HNRNPA1). Network analysis showed that the phosphorylated tau interactome was enriched in proteins involved in the protein ubiquitination pathway and phagosome maturation. Importantly, we were able to pinpoint specific proteins that phosphorylated tau interacts with in these pathways for the first time, therefore providing novel potential pathogenic mechanisms that can be explored in future studies. Combined, our results reveal new potential drug targets for the treatment of tauopathies and provide insight into how phosphorylated tau mediates its toxicity in Alzheimer's disease.
PXD020514	32812434	Optimized Proteomics Workflow for the Detection of Small Proteins. 	An Optimised Proteomics Workflow for the Detection of Small Proteins.	Bacillus subtilis, Lys-C, PRM, SEPs, proteogenomics, sProteins, small protein enrichment	Small open reading frame encoded proteins (SEPs) gained increasing interest during the last few years because of their broad range of important functions in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In bacteria, signaling, virulence, and regulation of enzyme activities have been associated with SEPs. Nonetheless, the number of SEPs detected in large-scale proteome studies is often low as classical methods are biased toward the identification of larger proteins. Here, we present a workflow that allows enhanced identification of small proteins compared to traditional protocols. For this aim, the steps of small protein enrichment, proteolytic digest, and database search were reviewed and adjusted to the special requirement of SEPs. Enrichment by the use of small-pore-sized solid-phase material increased the number of identified SEPs by a factor of 2, and utilization of alternative proteases to trypsin reduced the spectral counts for larger proteins. The application of the optimized protocol allowed the detection of 210 already annotated proteins up to 100 amino acids (aa) length, including 16 proteins below 51 aa in the Gram-positive model organism Bacillus subtilis. Moreover, 12% of all identified proteins were up to 100 aa, which is a significantly larger fraction than that reported in studies involving traditional proteomics workflows. Finally, the application of an integrated proteogenomics search database and extensive subsequent validation resulted in the confident identification of three novel, not yet annotated, SEPs, which are 21, 26, and 42 aa long.
PXD019807	32813721	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis provides insights into the aluminum-responsiveness of Tamba black soybean. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis provides insights into the aluminum-responsive in Tamba black soybean	Phosphoproteome, TMT labelling, Tamba black soybean, aluminum stress, roots tips	Aluminum (Al3+) toxicity is one of the most important limitations to agricultural production worldwide. The overall response of plants to Al3+ stress has been documented, but the contribution of protein phosphorylation to Al3+ detoxicity and tolerance in plants is unclear. Using a combination of tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling, immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) enrichment and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), Al3+-induced phosphoproteomic changes in roots of Tamba black soybean (TBS) were investigated in this study. The Data collected in this study are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD019807. After the Al3+ treatment, 189 proteins harboring 278 phosphosites were significantly changed (fold change > 1.2 or < 0.83, p < 0.05), with 88 upregulated, 96 downregulated and 5 up-/downregulated. Enrichment and protein interaction analyses revealed that differentially phosphorylated proteins (DPPs) under the Al3+ treatment were mainly related to G-protein-mediated signaling, transcription and translation, transporters and carbohydrate metabolism. Particularly, DPPs associated with root growth inhibition or citric acid synthesis were identified. The results of this study provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of TBS post-translational modifications in response to Al3+ stress.
PXD017043	32814773	Systems level profiling of arginine starvation reveals MYC and ERK adaptive metabolic reprogramming. 	Systems level profiling of arginine starvation in ASS1 negative sarcomas reveals ERK and MYC adaptive metabolic reprogramming of TCA anaplerosis and lipid metabolism	sarcoma	Arginine auxotrophy due to the silencing of argininosuccinate synthetase 1 (ASS1) occurs in many carcinomas and in the majority of sarcomas. Arginine deiminase (ADI-PEG20) therapy exploits this metabolic vulnerability by depleting extracellular arginine, causing arginine starvation. ASS1-negative cells develop resistance to ADI-PEG20 through a metabolic adaptation that includes re-expressing ASS1. As arginine-based multiagent therapies are being developed, further characterization of the changes induced by arginine starvation is needed. In order to develop a systems-level understanding of these changes, activity-based proteomic profiling (ABPP) and phosphoproteomic profiling were performed before and after ADI-PEG20 treatment in ADI-PEG20-sensitive and resistant sarcoma cells. When integrated with metabolomic profiling, this multi-omic analysis reveals that cellular response to arginine starvation is mediated by adaptive ERK signaling and activation of the Myc-Max transcriptional network. Concomitantly, these data elucidate proteomic changes that facilitate oxaloacetate production by enhancing glutamine and pyruvate anaplerosis and altering lipid metabolism to recycle citrate for oxidative glutaminolysis. Based on the complexity of metabolic and cellular signaling interactions, these multi-omic approaches could provide valuable tools for evaluating response to metabolically targeted therapies.
PXD015093	32817103	Phosphorylation-Dependent Assembly of a 14-3-3 Mediated Signaling Complex during Red Blood Cell Invasion by Plasmodium falciparum Merozoites. 	Phosphorylation Dependent Assembly of a 14-3-3 Anchored Signaling Complex During Erythrocyte Invasion by Plasmodium falciparum Merozoites	LC MS-MS, Malaria, RBC invasion	Red blood cell (RBC) invasion by Plasmodium merozoites requires multiple steps that are regulated by signaling pathways. Exposure of P. falciparum merozoites to the physiological signal of low K(+), as found in blood plasma, leads to a rise in cytosolic Ca(2+), which mediates microneme secretion, motility, and invasion. We have used global phosphoproteomic analysis of merozoites to identify signaling pathways that are activated during invasion. Using quantitative phosphoproteomics, we found 394 protein phosphorylation site changes in merozoites subjected to different ionic environments (high K(+)/low K(+)), 143 of which were Ca(2+) dependent. These included a number of signaling proteins such as catalytic and regulatory subunits of protein kinase A (PfPKAc and PfPKAr) and calcium-dependent protein kinase 1 (PfCDPK1). Proteins of the 14-3-3 family interact with phosphorylated target proteins to assemble signaling complexes. Here, using coimmunoprecipitation and gel filtration chromatography, we demonstrate that Pf14-3-3I binds phosphorylated PfPKAr and PfCDPK1 to mediate the assembly of a multiprotein complex in P. falciparum merozoites. A phospho-peptide, P1, based on the Ca(2+)-dependent phosphosites of PKAr, binds Pf14-3-3I and disrupts assembly of the Pf14-3-3I-mediated multiprotein complex. Disruption of the multiprotein complex with P1 inhibits microneme secretion and RBC invasion. This study thus identifies a novel signaling complex that plays a key role in merozoite invasion of RBCs. Disruption of this signaling complex could serve as a novel approach to inhibit blood-stage growth of malaria parasites.IMPORTANCE Invasion of red blood cells (RBCs) by Plasmodium falciparum merozoites is a complex process that is regulated by intricate signaling pathways. Here, we used phosphoproteomic profiling to identify the key proteins involved in signaling events during invasion. We found changes in the phosphorylation of various merozoite proteins, including multiple kinases previously implicated in the process of invasion. We also found that a phosphorylation-dependent multiprotein complex including signaling kinases assembles during the process of invasion. Disruption of this multiprotein complex impairs merozoite invasion of RBCs, providing a novel approach for the development of inhibitors to block the growth of blood-stage malaria parasites.
PXD020358	32817316	Immunostimulation by Lactobacillus kefiri S-layer proteins with distinct glycosylation patterns requires different lectin partners. 	Lactobacillus surface layer glycosylation	glycopeptides, glycosylation, lactobacillus, s-layer	S-layer (glyco)-proteins (SLPs) form a nanostructured envelope that covers the surface of different prokaryotes and show immunomodulatory activity. Previously, we have demonstrated that the S-layer glycoprotein from probiotic Lactobacillus kefiri CIDCA 8348 (SLP-8348) is recognized by Mincle (macrophage inducible C-type lectin receptor), and its adjuvanticity depends on the integrity of its glycans. However, the glycan's structure has not been described so far. Herein, we analyze the glycosylation pattern of three SLPs, SLP-8348, SLP-8321, and SLP-5818, and explore how these patterns impact their recognition by C-type lectin receptors and the immunomodulatory effect of the L. kefiri SLPs on antigen-presenting cells. High-performance anion-exchange chromatography-pulse amperometric detector performed after beta-elimination showed glucose as the major component in the O-glycans of the three SLPs; however, some differences in the length of hexose chains were observed. No N-glycosylation signals were detected in SLP-8348 and SLP-8321, but SLP-5818 was observed to have two sites carrying complex N-glycans based on a site-specific analysis and a glycomic workflow of the permethylated glycans. SLP-8348 was previously shown to enhance LPS-induced activation on both RAW264.7 macrophages and murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells; we now show that SLP-8321 and SLP-5818 have a similar effect regardless of the differences in their glycosylation patterns. Studies performed with bone marrow-derived dendritic cells from C-type lectin receptor-deficient mice revealed that the immunostimulatory activity of SLP-8321 depends on its recognition by Mincle, whereas SLP-5818's effects are dependent on SignR3 (murine ortholog of human DC-SIGN). These findings encourage further investigation of both the potential application of these SLPs as new adjuvants and the protein glycosylation mechanisms in these bacteria.
PXD019513	32817346	Analytical Guidelines for co-fractionation Mass Spectrometry Obtained through Global Profiling of Gold Standard Saccharomyces cerevisiae Protein Complexes. 	Analytical guidelines for co-fractionation mass spectrometry obtained through global profiling of gold standard Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein complexes	Reference Complex Profiling, co-fractionation mass spectrometry, protein complexes, protein correlation profiling, protein-protein interactions	Co-fractionation MS (CF-MS) is a technique with potential to characterize endogenous and unmanipulated protein complexes on an unprecedented scale. However this potential has been offset by a lack of guidelines for best-practice CF-MS data collection and analysis. To obtain such guidelines, this study thoroughly evaluates novel and published Saccharomyces cerevisiae CF-MS data sets using very high proteome coverage libraries of yeast gold standard complexes. A new method for identifying gold standard complexes in CF-MS data, Reference Complex Profiling, and the Extending 'Guilt-by-Association' by Degree (EGAD) R package are used for these evaluations, which are verified with concurrent analyses of published human data. By evaluating data collection designs, which involve fractionation of cell lysates, it is found that near-maximum recall of complexes can be achieved with fewer samples than published studies. Distributing sample collection across orthogonal fractionation methods, rather than a single high resolution data set, leads to particularly efficient recall. By evaluating 17 different similarity scoring metrics, which are central to CF-MS data analysis, it is found that two metrics rarely used in past CF-MS studies - Spearman and Kendall correlations - and the recently introduced Co-apex metric frequently maximize recall, whereas a popular metric-Euclidean distance-delivers poor recall. The common practice of integrating external genomic data into CF-MS data analysis is also evaluated, revealing that this practice may improve the precision and recall of known complexes but is generally unsuitable for predicting novel complexes in model organisms. If studying nonmodel organisms using orthologous genomic data, it is found that particular subsets of fractionation profiles (e.g. the lowest abundance quartile) should be excluded to minimize false discovery. These assessments are summarized in a series of universally applicable guidelines for precise, sensitive and efficient CF-MS studies of known complexes, and effective predictions of novel complexes for orthogonal experimental validation.
PXD018071	32817453	Biotinylated Surfome Profiling Identifies Potential Biomarkers for Diagnosis and Therapy of Aspergillus fumigatus Infection. 	Biotinylated surfome profiling of A. fumigatus during early development	Aspergillus fumigatus, allergens, surface biotinylation, surfome	Aspergillus fumigatus is one of the most common airborne molds capable of causing mycoses and allergies in humans. During infection, fungal surface proteins mediate the first contact with the human immune system to evade immune responses or to induce hypersensitivity. Several methods have been established for surface proteomics (surfomics). Biotinylation coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) identification of peptides is a particularly efficient method to identify the surface-exposed regions of proteins that potentially mediate interaction with the host. After biotinylation of surface proteins during spore germination, we detected 231 different biotinylated surface proteins (including several well-known proteins such as RodA, CcpA, and DppV; allergens; and heat shock proteins [HSPs]), as well as some previously undescribed surface proteins. The dynamic change of the surface proteome was illustrated by detection of a relatively high number of proteins exclusively at one developmental stage. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, we confirmed the surface localization of several HSPs of the HSP70 family, which may have moonlighting functions. Collectively, by comparing our data with data representative of previously published A. fumigatus surface proteomes, our study generated a comprehensive data set corresponding to the A. fumigatus surfome and uncovered the surface-exposed regions of many proteins on the surface of conidia or hyphae. These surface-exposed regions are candidates for direct interaction with host cells and may represent antigenic epitopes that either induce protective immune responses or mediate immune evasion. Thus, our data sets provided and compiled here represent reasonable immunotherapy and diagnostic targets for future investigations.IMPORTANCEAspergillus fumigatus is the most important airborne human-pathogenic mold, capable of causing both life-threatening invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients and allergy-inducing infections in individuals with atopic allergy. Despite its obvious medical relevance, timely diagnosis and efficient antifungal treatment of A. fumigatus infection remain major challenges. Proteins on the surface of conidia (asexually produced spores) and mycelium directly mediate host-pathogen interaction and also may serve as targets for diagnosis and immunotherapy. However, the similarity of protein sequences between A. fumigatus and other organisms, sometimes even including the human host, makes selection of targets for immunological-based studies difficult. Here, using surface protein biotinylation coupled with LC-MS/MS analysis, we identified hundreds of A. fumigatus surface proteins with exposed regions, further defining putative targets for possible diagnostic and immunotherapeutic design.
PXD020073	32820045	Heterogeneous adaptation of cysteine reactivity to a covalent oncometabolite. 	Heterogeneous adaptation of cysteine reactivity to a covalent oncometabolite	Cysteine Reactivity, HLRCC, Kidney, UOK268	An important context in which metabolism influences tumorigenesis is the genetic cancer syndrome hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma (HLRCC), a disease in which mutation of the tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme fumarate hydratase (FH) causes hyperaccumulation of fumarate. This electrophilic oncometabolite can alter gene activity at the level of transcription, via reversible inhibition of epigenetic dioxygenases, as well as posttranslationally, via covalent modification of cysteine residues. To better understand the potential for metabolites to influence posttranslational modifications important to tumorigenesis and cancer cell growth, here we report a chemoproteomic analysis of a kidney-derived HLRCC cell line. Using a general reactivity probe, we generated a data set of proteomic cysteine residues sensitive to the reduction in fumarate levels caused by genetic reintroduction of active FH into HLRCC cell lines. This revealed a broad up-regulation of cysteine reactivity upon FH rescue, which evidence suggests is caused by an approximately equal proportion of transcriptional and posttranslational modification-mediated regulation. Gene ontology analysis highlighted several new targets and pathways potentially modulated by FH mutation. Comparison of the new data set with prior studies highlights considerable heterogeneity in the adaptive response of cysteine-containing proteins in different models of HLRCC. This is consistent with emerging studies indicating the existence of cell- and tissue-specific cysteine-omes, further emphasizing the need for characterization of diverse models. Our analysis provides a resource for understanding the proteomic adaptation to fumarate accumulation and a foundation for future efforts to exploit this knowledge for cancer therapy.
PXD020431	32820046	Canonical Notch ligands and Fringes have distinct effects on NOTCH1 and NOTCH2. 	Mapping sites of O-fucose modification on mouse NOTCH2	EGF repeats, Fringe, NOTCH2, O-fucose	Notch signaling is a cellular pathway regulating cell-fate determination and adult tissue homeostasis. Little is known about how canonical Notch ligands or Fringe enzymes differentially affect NOTCH1 and NOTCH2. Using cell-based Notch signaling and ligand-binding assays, we evaluated differences in NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 responses to Delta-like (DLL) and Jagged (JAG) family members and the extent to which Fringe enzymes modulate their activity. In the absence of Fringes, DLL4-NOTCH1 activation was more than twice that of DLL4-NOTCH2, whereas all other ligands activated NOTCH2 similarly or slightly more than NOTCH1. However, NOTCH2 showed less sensitivity to the Fringes. Lunatic fringe (LFNG) enhanced NOTCH2 activation by DLL1 and -4, and Manic fringe (MFNG) inhibited NOTCH2 activation by JAG1 and -2. Mass spectral analysis showed that O-fucose occurred at high stoichiometry at most consensus sequences of NOTCH2 and that the Fringe enzymes modified more O-fucose sites of NOTCH2 compared with NOTCH1. Mutagenesis studies showed that LFNG modification of O-fucose on EGF8 and -12 of NOTCH2 was responsible for enhancement of DLL1-NOTCH2 activation, similar to previous reports for NOTCH1. In contrast to NOTCH1, a single O-fucose site mutant that substantially blocked the ability of MFNG to inhibit NOTCH2 activation by JAG1 could not be identified. Interestingly, elimination of the O-fucose site on EGF12 allowed LFNG to inhibit JAG1-NOTCH2 activation, and O-fucosylation on EGF9 was important for trafficking of both NOTCH1 and NOTCH2. Together, these studies provide new insights into the differential regulation of NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 by Notch ligands and Fringe enzymes.
PXD020499	32821252	CSF extracellular vesicle proteomics demonstrates altered protein homeostasis in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. 	CSF extracellular vesicle proteomics demonstrates altered protein homeostasis in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	ALS, CSF	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) released by neurons and glia reach the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Studying the proteome of CSF-derived EVs offers a novel perspective on the key intracellular processes associated with the pathogenesis of the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and a potential source from which to develop biomarkers. METHODS: CSF EVs were extracted using ultrafiltration liquid chromatography from ALS patients and controls. EV size distribution and concentration was measured using nanoparticle tracking analysis and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry proteomic analysis performed. RESULTS: CSF EV concentration and size distribution did not differ between ALS and control groups, nor between a sub-group of ALS patients with or without an associated hexanucleotide repeat expansion (HRE) in C9orf72. Univariate proteomic analysis identified downregulation of the pentameric proteasome-like protein Bleomycin hydrolase in ALS patients, whilst Gene Ontology enrichment analysis demonstrated downregulation of proteasome core complex proteins (8/8 proteins, normalized enrichment ratio -1.77, FDR-adjusted p = 0.057) in the ALS group. The sub-group of ALS patients associated with the C9orf72 HRE showed upregulation in Ubiquitin-like modifying-activating protein 1 (UBA1) compared to non-C9orf72 cases. CONCLUSIONS: Proteomic analysis of CSF EVs in ALS detects intracellular alterations in protein homeostatic mechanisms, previously only identified in pathological tissues. This supports the wider use of CSF EVs as a source of novel biomarkers reflecting key and potentially druggable pathological intracellular pathway alterations in ALS.
PXD017037	32821403	Decoding altitude-activated regulatory mechanisms occurring during apple peel ripening. 	Decoding altitude - activated regulatory mechanisms underlining apple peel coloration and ripening	Altitude, anthocyanin, apple fruit, metabolomics, peel tissue, ripening	Apple (Malus domestica Borkh) is an important fruit crop cultivated in a broad range of environmental conditions. Apple fruit ripening is a physiological process, whose molecular regulatory network response to different environments is still not sufficiently investigated and this is particularly true of the peel tissue. In this study, the influence of environmental conditions associated with low (20 m) and high (750 m) altitude on peel tissue ripening was assessed by physiological measurements combined with metabolomic and proteomic analyses during apple fruit development and ripening. Although apple fruit ripening was itself not affected by the different environmental conditions, several key color parameters, such as redness and color index, were notably induced by high altitude. Consistent with this observation, increased levels of anthocyanin and other phenolic compounds, including cyanidin-3-O-galactoside, quercetin-3-O-rhamnoside, quercetin-3-O-rutinoside, and chlorogenic acid were identified in the peel of apple grown at high altitude. Moreover, the high-altitude environment was characterized by elevated abundance of various carbohydrates (e.g., arabinose, xylose, and sucrose) but decreased levels of glutamic acid and several related proteins, such as glycine hydroxymethyltransferase and glutamate-glyoxylate aminotransferase. Other processes affected by high altitude were the TCA cycle, the synthesis of oxidative/defense enzymes, and the accumulation of photosynthetic proteins. From the obtained data we were able to construct a metabolite-protein network depicting the impact of altitude on peel ripening. The combined analyses presented here provide new insights into physiological processes linking apple peel ripening with the prevailing environmental conditions.
PXD019974	32822197	Comparison of Tenocyte Populations from the Core and Periphery of Equine Tendons. 	A Comparison of Tenocyte Populations from the Core and Periphery of Equine Tendons	shotgun proteomics, tendon	Tendon is a highly organized, dense connective tissue that has been demonstrated to have very little turnover. In spite of the low turnover, tendon can grow in response to loading, which may take place primarily at the periphery. Tendon injuries and recurrence of injuries are common in both humans and animals in sports. It is unclear why some areas of the tendon are more susceptible to such injuries and whether this is due to intrinsic regional differences in extracellular matrix (ECM) production or tissue turnover. This study aimed to compare populations of tenocytes derived from the tendon core and periphery. Tenocytes were isolated from equine superficial digital flexor tendons (SDFTs), and the proliferation capacity was determined. ECM production was characterized by immuno- and histological staining and by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Core and periphery SDFT cultures exhibited comparable proliferation rates and had very similar proteome profiles, but showed biological variation in collagen type I deposition. In conclusion, the intrinsic properties of tenocytes from different regions of the tendon are very similar, and other factors in the tissue may contribute to how specific areas respond to loading or injury.
PXD016182	32823483	Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Rat Neutrophils Shows the Effect of Intestinal Ischemia/Reperfusion and Preconditioning on Kinases and Phosphatases. 	rat neutrophils phosphoproteome analysis	inflammatory response, kinases, neutrophil, phosphatases	Intestinal ischemia reperfusion injury (iIRI) is a severe clinical condition presenting high morbidity and mortality worldwide. Some of the systemic consequences of IRI can be prevented by applying ischemic preconditioning (IPC), a series of short ischemia/reperfusion events preceding the major ischemia. Although neutrophils are key players in the pathophysiology of ischemic injuries, neither the dysregulation presented by these cells in iIRI nor the protective effect of iIPC have their regulation mechanisms fully understood. Protein phosphorylation, as well as the regulation of the respective phosphatases and kinases are responsible for regulating a large number of cellular functions in the inflammatory response. Moreover, in previous work we found hydrolases and transferases to be modulated in iIR and iIPC, suggesting the possible involvement of phosphatases and kinases in the process. Therefore, in the present study, we analyzed the phosphoproteome of neutrophils from rats submitted to mesenteric ischemia and reperfusion, either submitted or not to IPC, compared to quiescent controls and sham laparotomy. Proteomic analysis was performed by multi-step enrichment of phosphopeptides, isobaric labeling, and LC-MS/MS analysis. Bioinformatics was used to determine phosphosite and phosphopeptide abundance and clustering, as well as kinases and phosphatases sites and domains. We found that most of the phosphorylation-regulated proteins are involved in apoptosis and migration, and most of the regulatory kinases belong to CAMK and CMGC families. An interesting finding revealed groups of proteins that are modulated by iIR, but such modulation can be prevented by iIPC. Among the regulated proteins related to the iIPC protective effect, Vamp8 and Inpp5d/Ship are discussed as possible candidates for control of the iIR damage.
PXD013433	32823589	CD83, a Novel MAPK Signaling Pathway Interactor, Determines Ovarian Cancer Cell Fate. 	CD83, a Novel MAPK Signaling Pathway Interactor, Determines Ovarian Cancer Cell Fate	CD83	Ovarian cancer is a leading cause of death from gynecologic malignancies worldwide. Although CD83 is widely described as a solid marker for mature dendritic cells, emerging pieces of evidence indicate the expression of membrane protein CD83 by various tumor cells, including ovarian cancer cells. However, the potential role of CD83 in ovarian cancer cell properties and development remains absolutely unknown. By using human CD83 stable overexpression and knockdown sublines of several ovarian cancer cells, we observed that CD83 advanced the growth proliferation, colony formation ability, spheroid formation, and in vivo tumorigenicity of ovarian cancer cells; surprisingly, CD83 limited their migration and invasion potentials. Positive regulation of proliferation/stemness factors (e.g., cyclin-CDKs and KIT/CD44) but negative regulation of matrix metallopeptidases (e.g., MMP1 and 7) by CD83 were revealed by the integrated analysis of transcriptome and proteome. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) first identified the association of CD83 with MAP3K7 (also known as TAK1) and MAP3K7-binding protein TAB1 on the cell membrane. Moreover, CD83 functions through the activation of MAP3K7-MEK1/2-ERK1/2 cascades to further regulate downstream FOXO1/p21/CDK2/CCNB1 and STAT3/DKK1 signaling pathways, thus activating proliferation and spheroid formation of ovarian cancer cells, respectively. Collectively, our findings define a CD83-MAPK pathway in the regulation of proliferation and stemness in ovarian cancer cells, with potential therapeutic applications in blocking their progression.
PXD020411	32823821	Protein Identification of Venoms of the African Spitting Cobras, Naja mossambica and Naja nigricincta nigricincta. 	Protein identification of venoms of the African spitting Cobras, Naja mossambica and Naja nigricincta nigricincta	Naja mossambica, Naja nigricincta nigricincta, Snake venom	Cobra snakes, including Naja mossambica and Naja nigricincta nigricincta, are one of the major groups of snakes responsible for snakebites in southern Africa, producing significant cytotoxicity and tissue damage. The venom of N. mossambica has been briefly characterised, but that of N. n. nigricincta is not reported. The current study identifies the venom proteins of N. mossambica and N. n. nigricincta. This is achieved using sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel eletrophroresis (PAGE), followed by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS). Most of the proteins were less than 17 kDa in both snakes. N. mossambica was found to have 75 proteins in total (from 16 protein families), whereas N.n. nigricincta had 73 (from 16 protein families). Of these identified proteins, 57 were common in both snakes. The proteins identified belonged to various families, including the three-finger toxins (3FTx), Cysteine-rich secretory proteins (CRiSP), Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) and Venom metalloproteinase M12B (SVMP). The current study contributes to the profile knowledge of snake venom compositions, which is of fundamental value in understanding the proteins that play a major role in envenomation.
PXD020664	32825547	Living the Sweet Life: How Liquorilactobacillus hordei TMW 1.1822 Changes Its Behavior in the Presence of Sucrose in Comparison to Glucose. 	Living the sweet life: how Liquorilactobacillus hordei TMW 1.1822 changes its behavior in the presence of sucrose in comparison to glucose	Lactobacillus hordei, Liquorilactobacillus hordei, dextransucrase, exoproteome, metabolism, sucrose, water kefir	Liquorilactobacillus (L.) hordei (formerly Lactobacillus hordei) is one of the dominating lactic acid bacteria within the water kefir consortium, being highly adapted to survive in this environment, while producing high molecular weight dextrans from sucrose. In this work, we extensively studied the physiological response of L. hordei TMW 1.1822 to sucrose compared to glucose, applying label-free, quantitative proteomics of cell lysates and exoproteomes. This revealed the differential expression of 53 proteins within cellular proteomes, mostly associated with carbohydrate uptake and metabolism. Supported by growth experiments, this suggests that L. hordei TMW 1.1822 favors fructose over other sugars. The dextransucrase was expressed irrespectively of the present carbon source, while it was significantly more released in the presence of sucrose (log2FC = 3.09), being among the most abundant proteins within exoproteomes of sucrose-treated cells. Still, L. hordei TMW 1.1822 expressed other sucrose active enzymes, predictively competing with the dextransucrase reaction. While osmolysis appeared to be unlikely, sucrose led to increased release of a multitude of cytoplasmic proteins, suggesting that biofilm formation in L. hordei is not only composed of a polysaccharide matrix but is also of proteinaceous nature. Therefore, our study highlights the intrinsic adaptation of water kefir-borne L. hordei to sucrose-rich habitats and provides fundamental knowledge for its use as a starter culture in plant-based food fermentations with in situ dextran formation.
PXD020710	32826218	Multiple Drug-Induced Stress Responses Inhibit Formation of Escherichia coli Biofilms. 	Multiple drug-induced stress responses inhibit formation of Escherichia coli biofilms	Escherichia coli, drug, stress	In most ecosystems, bacteria exist primarily as structured surface-associated biofilms that can be highly tolerant to antibiotics and thus represent an important health issue. Here, we explored drug repurposing as a strategy to identify new antibiofilm compounds, screening over 1,000 compounds from the Prestwick Chemical Library of approved drugs for specific activities that prevent biofilm formation by Escherichia coli Most growth-inhibiting compounds, which include known antibacterial but also antiviral and other drugs, also reduced biofilm formation. However, we also identified several drugs that were biofilm inhibitory at doses where only a weak effect or no effect on planktonic growth could be observed. The activities of the most specific antibiofilm compounds were further characterized using gene expression analysis, proteomics, and microscopy. We observed that most of these drugs acted by repressing genes responsible for the production of curli, a major component of the E. coli biofilm matrix. This repression apparently occurred through the induction of several different stress responses, including DNA and cell wall damage, and homeostasis of divalent cations, demonstrating that biofilm formation can be inhibited through a variety of molecular mechanisms. One tested drug, tyloxapol, did not affect curli expression or cell growth but instead inhibited biofilm formation by suppressing bacterial attachment to the surface.IMPORTANCE The prevention of bacterial biofilm formation is one of the major current challenges in microbiology. Here, by systematically screening a large number of approved drugs for their ability to suppress biofilm formation by Escherichia coli, we identified a number of prospective antibiofilm compounds. We further demonstrated different mechanisms of action for individual compounds, from induction of replicative stress to disbalance of cation homeostasis to inhibition of bacterial attachment to the surface. Our work demonstrates the potential of drug repurposing for the prevention of bacterial biofilm formation and suggests that also for other bacteria, the activity spectrum of antibiofilm compounds is likely to be broad.
PXD017432	32826880	Cell density-dependent proteolysis by HtrA1 induces translocation of zyxin to the nucleus and increased cell survival. 	Proteolysis of zyxin by HtrA1 induces nuclear translocation of the resulting C-terminal fragment of zyxin	HeLa, TMT, Zyxin	Proteases modulate critical processes in cutaneous tissue repair to orchestrate inflammation, cell proliferation and tissue remodeling. However, the functional consequences and implications in healing impairments of most cleavage events are not understood. Using iTRAQ-based Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS) we had characterized proteolytic signatures in a porcine wound healing model and identified two neo-N termini derived from proteolytic cleavage of the focal adhesion protein and mechanotransducer zyxin. Here, we assign these proteolytic events to the activity of either caspase-1 or serine protease HtrA1 and analyze the biological relevance of the resultant zyxin truncations. By cellular expression of full-length and truncated zyxin proteins, we demonstrate nuclear translocation of a C-terminal zyxin fragment that could also be generated in vitro by HtrA1 cleavage and provide evidence for its anti-apoptotic activities, potentially by regulating the expression of modulators of cell proliferation, protein synthesis and genome stability. Targeted degradomics correlated endogenous generation of the same zyxin fragment with increased cell density in human primary dermal fibroblasts. Hence, this newly identified HtrA1-zyxin protease signaling axis might present a novel mechanism to transiently enhance cell survival in environments of increased cell density like in wound granulation tissue.
PXD019907	32826889	OTUD5 cooperates with TRIM25 in transcriptional regulation and tumor progression via deubiquitination activity. 	OTUD5 complex mass spectrometry	OTUD5, protein complex	Oncogenic processes exert their greatest effect by targeting regulators of cell proliferation. Studying the mechanism underlying growth augmentation is expected to improve clinical therapies. The ovarian tumor (OTU) subfamily deubiquitinases have been implicated in the regulation of critical cell-signaling cascades, but most OTUs functions remain to be investigated. Through an unbiased RNAi screen, knockdown of OTUD5 is shown to significantly accelerate cell growth. Further investigation reveals that OTUD5 depletion leads to the enhanced transcriptional activity of TRIM25 and the inhibited expression of PML by altering the ubiquitination level of TRIM25. Importantly, OTUD5 knockdown accelerates tumor growth in a nude mouse model. OTUD5 expression is markedly downregulated in tumor tissues. The reduced OTUD5 level is associated with an aggressive phenotype and a poor clinical outcome for cancers patients. Our findings reveal a mechanism whereby OTUD5 regulates gene transcription and suppresses tumorigenesis by deubiquitinating TRIM25, providing a potential target for oncotherapy.
PXD019902	32826910	A machine learning-based chemoproteomic approach to identify drug targets and binding sites in complex proteomes. 	LiP-Quant, an automated chemoproteomic approach to identify drug targets in complex proteomes, p3	LC-MS, LiP-Quant, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Target deconvolution, small molecules	Chemoproteomics is a key technology to characterize the mode of action of drugs, as it directly identifies the protein targets of bioactive compounds and aids in the development of optimized small-molecule compounds. Current approaches cannot identify the protein targets of a compound and also detect the interaction surfaces between ligands and protein targets without prior labeling or modification. To address this limitation, we here develop LiP-Quant, a drug target deconvolution pipeline based on limited proteolysis coupled with mass spectrometry that works across species, including in human cells. We use machine learning to discern features indicative of drug binding and integrate them into a single score to identify protein targets of small molecules and approximate their binding sites. We demonstrate drug target identification across compound classes, including drugs targeting kinases, phosphatases and membrane proteins. LiP-Quant estimates the half maximal effective concentration of compound binding sites in whole cell lysates, correctly discriminating drug binding to homologous proteins and identifying the so far unknown targets of a fungicide research compound.
PXD019313	32831131	Gene co-expression and histone modification signatures are associated with melanoma progression, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, and metastasis. 	histone modification signatures in mice melanoma progression	PTM, histone, melanoma, mice	BACKGROUND: We have previously developed a murine cellular system that models the transformation from melanocytes to metastatic melanoma cells. This model was established by cycles of anchorage impediment of melanocytes and consists of four cell lines: differentiated melanocytes (melan-a), pre-malignant melanocytes (4C), malignant (4C11-), and metastasis-prone (4C11+) melanoma cells. Here, we searched for transcriptional and epigenetic signatures associated with melanoma progression and metastasis by performing a gene co-expression analysis of transcriptome data and a mass-spectrometry-based profiling of histone modifications in this model. RESULTS: Eighteen modules of co-expressed genes were identified, and some of them were associated with melanoma progression, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and metastasis. The genes in these modules participate in biological processes like focal adhesion, cell migration, extracellular matrix organization, endocytosis, cell cycle, DNA repair, protein ubiquitination, and autophagy. Modules and hub signatures related to EMT and metastasis (turquoise, green yellow, and yellow) were significantly enriched in genes associated to patient survival in two independent melanoma cohorts (TCGA and Leeds), suggesting they could be sources of novel prognostic biomarkers. Clusters of histone modifications were also linked to melanoma progression, EMT, and metastasis. Reduced levels of H4K5ac and H4K8ac marks were seen in the pre-malignant and tumorigenic cell lines, whereas the methylation patterns of H3K4, H3K56, and H4K20 were related to EMT. Moreover, the metastatic 4C11+ cell line showed higher H3K9me2 and H3K36me3 methylation, lower H3K18me1, H3K23me1, H3K79me2, and H3K36me2 marks and, in agreement, downregulation of the H3K36me2 methyltransferase Nsd1. CONCLUSIONS: We uncovered transcriptional and histone modification signatures that may be molecular events driving melanoma progression and metastasis, which can aid in the identification of novel prognostic genes and drug targets for treating the disease.
PXD018344	32832656	SirT7 auto-ADP-ribosylation regulates glucose starvation response through mH2A1. 	Identification of auto mono-ADP-ribosylation sites on SIRT6 and SIRT7	ADP-ribosylation, Orbitrap Eclipse, Orbitrap Lumos, SirT7, aging, calorie restriction, chromatin, glucose starvation, macroH2A, sirtuins	Sirtuins are key players of metabolic stress response. Originally described as deacetylases, some sirtuins also exhibit poorly understood mono-adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP)-ribosyltransferase (mADPRT) activity. We report that the deacetylase SirT7 is a dual sirtuin, as it also features auto-mADPRT activity. SirT7 mADPRT occurs at a previously undefined active site, and its abrogation alters SirT7 chromatin distribution. We identify an epigenetic pathway by which ADP-ribosyl-SirT7 is recognized by the ADP-ribose reader mH2A1.1 under glucose starvation, inducing SirT7 relocalization to intergenic regions. SirT7 promotes mH2A1 enrichment in a subset of nearby genes, many of them involved in second messenger signaling, resulting in their specific up- or down-regulation. The expression profile of these genes under calorie restriction is consistently abrogated in SirT7-deficient mice, resulting in impaired activation of autophagy. Our work provides a novel perspective on sirtuin duality and suggests a role for SirT7/mH2A1.1 axis in glucose homeostasis and aging.
PXD015349	32832664	Proteasomal degradation of the intrinsically disordered protein tau at single-residue resolution. 	Analysis of the fragments from hTau degraded by proteasome 20s using mass spectrometry	hTau	Intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) can be degraded in a ubiquitin-independent process by the 20S proteasome. Decline in 20S activity characterizes neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we examine 20S degradation of IDP tau, a protein that aggregates into insoluble deposits in Alzheimer's disease. We show that cleavage of tau by the 20S proteasome is most efficient within the aggregation-prone repeat region of tau and generates both short, aggregation-deficient peptides and two long fragments containing residues 1 to 251 and 1 to 218. Phosphorylation of tau by the non-proline-directed Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II inhibits degradation by the 20S proteasome. Phosphorylation of tau by GSK3beta, a major proline-directed tau kinase, modulates tau degradation kinetics in a residue-specific manner. The study provides detailed insights into the degradation products of tau generated by the 20S proteasome, the residue specificity of degradation, single-residue degradation kinetics, and their regulation by posttranslational modification.
PXD019667	32832769	Quantitative Proteomic Analyses To Reveal the Key Features of Proteins in New Onset Ankylosing Spondylitis Patients. 	Quantitative proteomic analyses to reveal the key features of proteins in new onset Ankylosing spondylitis patients	ankylosing spondylitis, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, phosphoromics	Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic immune-mediated disease. Various immune cells play an essential role in the AS pathogenesis. However, the specific pathogenesis of AS has not been well understood. Proteomic profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were applied to reveal the specific pathogenesis of AS. Quantitative proteomic analyses were performed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based methods to investigate the protein profiling of PBMCs from new-onset AS patients (n = 9) and healthy controls (n = 9). We identified 782 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and 527 differentially phosphorylated proteins (DPPs) between AS patients and healthy controls. The subcellular location of DEPs and DPPs showed that most of the DEPs were from the cytoplasm (n = 296, 38%), were extracellular (n = 141, 18%), and from the nucleus (n = 114, 15%); most of the DPPs were from the cytoplasm (n = 37, 34%), nucleus (n = 35, 32%), and plasma membrane (n = 10, 9%). We further identified 89 proteins with both expression and phosphorylation differences. The functional annotation of the 89 differentially expressed and phosphorylated proteins enriched in the antigen processing and presentation pathway. Four DEPs with six phosphorylated positions were found in the antigen processing and presentation pathway. The differentially expressed and phosphorylated proteins may be helpful to uncover the pathogenesis of AS. The six AS-specific proteins may serve as candidate markers for AS diagnosis and new treatment targets.
PXD020067	32838362	Virus-Host Interactome and Proteomic Survey Reveal Potential Virulence Factors Influencing SARS-CoV-2 Pathogenesis. 	interactome and proteomic survey of PMBCs from COVID-19 patients	COVID-19, Interactome, PBMC	BACKGROUND: The ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a global public health concern due to relatively easy person-to-person transmission and the current lack of effective antiviral therapy. However, the exact molecular mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis remain largely unknown. METHODS: Genome-wide screening was used to establish intraviral and viral-host interactomes. Quantitative proteomics was used to investigate the peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) proteome signature in COVID-19. FINDINGS: We elucidated 286 host proteins targeted by SARS-CoV-2 and >350 host proteins that are significantly perturbed in COVID-19-derived PBMCs. This signature in severe COVID-19 PBMCs reveals a significant upregulation of cellular proteins related to neutrophil activation and blood coagulation, as well as a downregulation of proteins mediating T cell receptor signaling. From the interactome, we further identified that non-structural protein 10 interacts with NF-kappaB-repressing factor (NKRF) to facilitate interleukin-8 (IL-8) induction, which potentially contributes to IL-8-mediated chemotaxis of neutrophils and the overexuberant host inflammatory response observed in COVID-19 patients. CONCLUSIONS: Our study not only presents a systematic examination of SARS-CoV-2-induced perturbation of host targets and cellular networks but it also reveals insights into the mechanisms by which SARS-CoV-2 triggers cytokine storms, representing a powerful resource in the pursuit of therapeutic interventions. FUNDING: National Key Research and Development Project of China, National Natural Science Foundation of China, National Science and Technology Major Project, Program for Professor of Special Appointment (Eastern Scholar) at Shanghai Institutions of Higher Learning, Shanghai Science and Technology Commission, Shanghai Municipal Health Commission, Shanghai Municipal Key Clinical Specialty, Innovative Research Team of High-level Local Universities in Shanghai, Interdisciplinary Program of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, SII Challenge Fund for COVID-19 Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) Large Research Infrastructure of Maintenance and Remolding Project, and Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Technology Talent Program.
PXD019015	32839392	Modulation of Human Adipose Stem Cells' Neurotrophic Capacity Using a Variety of Growth Factors for Neural Tissue Engineering Applications: Axonal Growth, Transcriptional, and Phosphoproteomic Analyses In Vitro. 	Modulation of adipose stem cell neurotrophic capacity for neural tissue engineering applications	LCMS, Phospho	We report on a potential strategy involving the exogenous neurotrophic factors (NTF) for enhancing the neurotrophic capacity of human adipose stem cells (ASC) in vitro. For this, ASC were stimulated for three days using NTF, i.e., nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin 3 (NT3), NT4, glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). The resulting conditioned medium (CM) as well as individual NTF exhibited distinct effects on axonal outgrowth from dorsal root ganglion (DRG) explants. In particular, CM derived from NT3-stimulated ASC (CM-NT3-ASC) promoted robust axonal outgrowth. Subsequent transcriptional analysis of DRG cultures in response to CM-NT3-ASC displayed significant upregulation of STAT-3 and GAP-43. In addition, phosphoproteomic analysis of NT3-stimulated ASC revealed significant changes in the phosphorylation state of different proteins that are involved in cytokine release, growth factors signaling, stem cell maintenance, and differentiation. Furthermore, DRG cultures treated with CM-NT3-ASC exhibited significant changes in the phosphorylation levels of proteins involved in tubulin and actin cytoskeletal pathways, which are crucial for axonal growth and elongation. Thus, the results obtained at the transcriptional, proteomic, and cellular level reveal significant changes in the neurotrophic capacity of ASC following NT3 stimulation and provide new options for improving the axonal growth-promoting potential of ASC in vitro.
PXD021672	32839772	Mapping the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein-derived peptidome presented by HLA class II on dendritic cells. 	Mapping the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein-derived peptidome presented by HLA class II on dendritic cells	HLA-II, Human leukocyte antigen Class II, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, antigen processing, coronavirus spike protein, glycosylation, peptide presentation, post-translational modification, receptor binding domain	Understanding and eliciting protective immune responses to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is an urgent priority. To facilitate these objectives, we have profiled the repertoire of human leukocyte antigen class II (HLA-II)-bound peptides presented by HLA-DR diverse monocyte-derived dendritic cells pulsed with SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein. We identify 209 unique HLA-II-bound peptide sequences, many forming nested sets, which map to sites throughout S including glycosylated regions. Comparison of the glycosylation profile of the S protein to that of the HLA-II-bound S peptides revealed substantial trimming of glycan residues on the latter, likely introduced during antigen processing. Our data also highlight the receptor-binding motif in S1 as a HLA-DR-binding peptide-rich region. Results from this study have application in vaccine design, and will aid analysis of CD4+ T cell responses in infected individuals and vaccine recipients.
PXD020623	32840906	AP-3 vesicle uncoating occurs after HOPS-dependent vacuole tethering. 	AP-3 vesicles retain their coat and depend on the HOPS subunit Vps41 for tethering to vacuoles	Age2 Ap-3 Turbo-ID	Heterotetrameric adapter (AP) complexes cooperate with the small GTPase Arf1 or lipids in cargo selection, vesicle formation, and budding at endomembranes in eukaryotic cells. While most AP complexes also require clathrin as the outer vesicle shell, formation of AP-3-coated vesicles involved in Golgi-to-vacuole transport in yeast has been postulated to depend on Vps41, a subunit of the vacuolar HOPS tethering complex. HOPS has also been identified as the tether of AP-3 vesicles on vacuoles. To unravel this conundrum of a dual Vps41 function, we anchored Vps41 stably to the mitochondrial outer membrane. By monitoring AP-3 recruitment, we now show that Vps41 can tether AP-3 vesicles to mitochondria, yet AP-3 vesicles can form in the absence of Vps41 or clathrin. By proximity labeling and mass spectrometry, we identify the Arf1 GTPase-activating protein (GAP) Age2 at the AP-3 coat and show that tethering, but not fusion at the vacuole can occur without complete uncoating. We conclude that AP-3 vesicles retain their coat after budding and that their complete uncoating occurs only after tethering at the vacuole.
PXD019778	32841274	Enrichment of microsomes from Chinese hamster ovary cells by subcellular fractionation for its use in proteomic analysis. 	Enrichment of microsomes from Chinese hamster ovary cells by subcellular fractionation for its use in proteomic analysis	Chinese hamster ovary cells, Organelles, Subcellular fractionation, Subcellular proteomics	Chinese hamster ovary cells have been the workhorse for the production of recombinant proteins in mammalian cells. Since biochemical, cellular and omics studies are usually affected by the lack of suitable fractionation procedures to isolate compartments from these cells, differential and isopycnic centrifugation based techniques were characterized and developed specially for them. Enriched fractions in intact nuclei, mitochondria, peroxisomes, cis-Golgi, trans-Golgi and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) were obtained in differential centrifugation steps and subsequently separated in discontinuous sucrose gradients. Nuclei, mitochondria, cis-Golgi, peroxisomes and smooth ER fractions were obtained as defined bands in 30-60% gradients. Despite the low percentage represented by the microsomes of the total cell homogenate (1.7%), their separation in a novel sucrose gradient (10-60%) showed enough resolution and efficiency to quantitatively separate their components into enriched fractions in trans-Golgi, cis-Golgi and ER. The identity of these organelles belonging to the classical secretion pathway that came from 10-60% gradients was confirmed by proteomics. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD019778. Components from ER and plasma membrane were the most frequent contaminants in almost all obtained fractions. The improved sucrose gradient for microsomal samples proved being successful in obtaining enriched fractions of low abundance organelles, such as Golgi apparatus and ER components, for biochemical and molecular studies, and suitable for proteomic research, which makes it a useful tool for future studies of this and other mammalian cell lines.
PXD019940	32841605	Virus-Receptor Interactions of Glycosylated SARS-CoV-2 Spike and Human ACE2 Receptor. 	Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 S and human ACE2 protein by LC-MS	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2 S ACE2 O-glycopeptide LC-MS	The SARS-CoV-2 betacoronavirus uses its highly glycosylated trimeric Spike protein to bind to the cell surface receptor angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) glycoprotein and facilitate host cell entry. We utilized glycomics-informed glycoproteomics to characterize site-specific microheterogeneity of glycosylation for a recombinant trimer Spike mimetic immunogen and for a soluble version of human ACE2. We combined this information with bioinformatics analyses of natural variants and with existing 3D structures of both glycoproteins to generate molecular dynamics simulations of each glycoprotein both alone and interacting with one another. Our results highlight roles for glycans in sterically masking polypeptide epitopes and directly modulating Spike-ACE2 interactions. Furthermore, our results illustrate the impact of viral evolution and divergence on Spike glycosylation, as well as the influence of natural variants on ACE2 receptor glycosylation. Taken together, these data can facilitate immunogen design to achieve antibody neutralization and inform therapeutic strategies to inhibit viral infection.
PXD016127	32842508	Marker Identification of the Grade of Dysplasia of Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasm in Pancreatic Cyst Fluid by Quantitative Proteomic Profiling. 	Quantitative Proteomic Profiling for Predicting Grade of Dysplasia in Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasm using Pancreatic Cyst Fluid	biomarkers, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), mucinous cystic neoplasm (MCN), pancreatic cyst fluid, serous cystic neoplasm (SCN)	The incidence of patients with pancreatic cystic lesions, particularly intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), is increasing. Current guidelines, which primarily consider radiological features and laboratory data, have had limited success in predicting malignant IPMN. The lack of a definitive diagnostic method has led to low-risk IPMN patients undergoing unnecessary surgeries. To address this issue, we discovered IPMN marker candidates by analyzing pancreatic cystic fluid by mass spectrometry. A total of 30 cyst fluid samples, comprising IPMN dysplasia and other cystic lesions, were evaluated. Mucus was removed by brief sonication, and the resulting supernatant was subjected to filter-aided sample preparation and high-pH peptide fractionation. Subsequently, the samples were analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Using several bioinformatics tools, such as gene ontology and ingenuity pathway analysis, we detailed IPMNs at the molecular level. Among the 5834 proteins identified in our dataset, 364 proteins were differentially expressed between IPMN dysplasia. The 19 final candidates consistently increased or decreased with greater IPMN malignancy. CD55 was validated in an independent cohort by ELISA, Western blot, and IHC, and the results were consistent with the MS data. In summary, we have determined the characteristics of pancreatic cyst fluid proteins and discovered potential biomarkers for IPMN dysplasia.
PXD044639	32842715	Sperm Proteome after Interaction with Reproductive Fluids in Porcine: From the Ejaculation to the Fertilization Site. 	Different seminal ejaculated fractions in artificial insemination condition the protein cargo of oviductal and uterine extracellular vesicles in pig.	Ejaculate fractions, extracellular vesicles, insemination, oviductal fluid, pregnant sows, uterine fluid.	Ejaculated sperm are exposed to different environments before encountering the oocyte. However, how the sperm proteome changes during this transit remains unsolved. This study aimed to identify proteomic changes in boar sperm after incubation with male (seminal plasma, SP) and/or female (uterine fluid, UF; and oviductal fluid, OF) reproductive fluids. The following experimental groups were analyzed: (1) SP: sperm + 20% SP; 2) UF: sperm + 20% UF; 3) OF: sperm + 20% OF; 4) SP + UF: sperm + 20% SP + 20% UF; and (5) SP+OF: sperm + 20% SP + 20% OF. The proteome analysis, performed by HPLC-MS/MS, allowed the identification of 265 proteins. A total of 69 proteins were detected in the UF, SP, and SP + UF groups, and 102 proteins in the OF, SP, and SP + OF groups. Our results showed a higher number of proteins when sperm were incubated with only one fluid than when they were co-incubated with two fluids. Additionally, the number of sperm-interacting proteins from the UF group was lower than the OF group. In conclusion, the interaction of sperm with reproductive fluids alters its proteome. The description of sperm-interacting proteins in porcine species after co-incubation with male and/or female reproductive fluids may be useful to understand sperm transport, selection, capacitation, or fertilization phenomena.
PXD016838	32843637	DEPS-1 is required for piRNA-dependent silencing and PIWI condensate organisation in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	PRG-1 Immunoprecipitation in C. Elegans	Caenorhabditis elegans, PRG-1	Membraneless organelles are sites for RNA biology including small non-coding RNA (ncRNA) mediated gene silencing. How small ncRNAs utilise phase separated environments for their function is unclear. We investigated how the PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway engages with the membraneless organelle P granule in Caenorhabditis elegans. Proteomic analysis of the PIWI protein PRG-1 reveals an interaction with the constitutive P granule protein DEPS-1. DEPS-1 is not required for piRNA biogenesis but piRNA-dependent silencing: deps-1 mutants fail to produce the secondary endo-siRNAs required for the silencing of piRNA targets. We identify a motif on DEPS-1 which mediates a direct interaction with PRG-1. DEPS-1 and PRG-1 form intertwining clusters to build elongated condensates in vivo which are dependent on the Piwi-interacting motif of DEPS-1. Additionally, we identify EDG-1 as an interactor of DEPS-1 and PRG-1. Our study reveals how specific protein-protein interactions drive the spatial organisation and piRNA-dependent silencing within membraneless organelles.
PXD011348	32844334	Nup133 and ERalpha mediate the differential effects of hyperoxia-induced damage in male and female OPCs. 	Oxygen effect on murine progenitor oligodrendrocytes	mouse brain, oxygen	BACKGROUND: Hyperoxia is a well-known cause of cerebral white matter injury in preterm infants with male sex being an independent and critical risk factor for poor neurodevelopmental outcome. Sex is therefore being widely considered as one of the major decisive factors for prognosis and treatment of these infants. But unfortunately, we still lack a clear view of the molecular mechanisms that lead to such a profound difference. Hence, using mouse-derived primary oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), we investigated the molecular factors and underlying mechanisms behind the differential response of male and female cells towards oxidative stress. RESULTS: We demonstrate that oxidative stress severely affects cellular functions related to energy metabolism, stress response, and maturation in the male-derived OPCs, whereas the female cells remain largely unaffected. CNPase protein level was found to decline following hyperoxia in male but not in female cells. This impairment of maturation was accompanied by the downregulation of nucleoporin and nuclear lamina proteins in the male cells. We identify Nup133 as a novel target protein affected by hyperoxia, whose inverse regulation may mediate this differential response in the male and female cells. Nup133 protein level declined following hyperoxia in male but not in female cells. We show that nuclear respiratory factor 1 (Nrf1) is a direct downstream target of Nup133 and that Nrf1 mRNA declines following hyperoxia in male but not in female cells. The female cells may be rendered resistant due to synergistic protection via the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) which was upregulated following hyperoxia in female but not in male cells. Both Nup133 and ERalpha regulate mitochondrial function and oxidative stress response by transcriptional regulation of Nrf1. CONCLUSIONS: These findings from a basic cell culture model establish prominent sex-based differences and suggest a novel mechanism involved in the differential response of OPCs towards oxidative stress. It conveys a strong message supporting the need to study how complex cellular processes are regulated differently in male and female brains during development and for a better understanding of how the brain copes up with different forms of stress after preterm birth.
PXD015001	32844720	High-Density Lipoprotein Carries Markers That Track With Recovery From Stroke. 	HDL proteome remodeling post-stroke	HDL, parallel reaction monitoring, stroke	RATIONALE: Prospective cohort studies question the value of HDL-C (high-density lipoprotein cholesterol) for stroke risk prediction. OBJECTIVE: Investigate the relationship between long-term functional recovery and HDL proteome and function. METHODS AND RESULTS: Changes in HDL protein composition and function (cholesterol efflux capacity) in patients after acute ischemic stroke at 2 time points (24 hours, 35 patients; 96 hours, 20 patients) and in 35 control subjects were measured. The recovery from stroke was assessed by 3 months, the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale and modified Rankin scale scores. When compared with control subject after adjustments for sex and HDL-C levels, 12 proteins some of which participate in acute phase response and platelet activation (APMAP [adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein], GPLD1 [phosphate inositol-glycan specific phospholipase D], APOE [apolipoprotein E], IHH [Indian hedgehog protein], ITIH4 [inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor chain H4], SAA2 [serum amyloid A2], APOA4 [apolipoprotein A-IV], CLU [clusterin], ANTRX2 [anthrax toxin receptor 2], PON1 [serum paraoxonase/arylesterase], SERPINA1 [alpha-1-antitrypsin], and APOF [apolipoprotein F]) were significantly (adjusted P<0.05) altered in stroke HDL at 96 hours. The first 8 of these proteins were also significantly altered at 24 hours. Consistent with inflammatory remodeling, cholesterol efflux capacity was reduced by 32% (P<0.001) at both time points. Baseline stroke severity adjusted regression model showed that changes within 96-hour poststroke in APOF, APOL1, APMAP, APOC4 (apolipoprotein C4), APOM (apolipoprotein M), PCYOX1 (prenylcysteine oxidase 1), PON1, and APOE correlate with stroke recovery scores (R(2)=0.38-0.73, adjusted P<0.05). APOF (R(2)=0.73) and APOL1 (R(2)=0.60) continued to significantly correlate with recovery scores after accounting for tPA (tissue-type plasminogen activator) treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Changes in HDL proteins during early acute phase of stroke associate with recovery. Monitoring HDL proteins may provide clinical biomarkers that inform on stroke recuperation.
PXD016204	32846045	Triton X-114 Fractionated Subcellular Proteome of Leptospira interrogans Shows Selective Enrichment of Pathogenic and Outer Membrane Proteins in the Detergent Fraction. 	Outer membrane proteome of Leptospira; revealing the bottom of iceberg	Leptospira, Outer Membrane, Pathogenic high resolution proteomics, pathogenesis, protease	The Triton X-114-based solubilization and temperature-dependent phase separation of proteins is used for subcellular fractionation where, aqueous, detergent, and pellet fractions represents cytoplasmic, outer membrane (OM), and inner membrane proteins, respectively. Mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of Triton X-114 fractions of proteomic analysis of Leptospira interrogans identified 2957 unique proteins distributed across the fractions. The results are compared with bioinformatics predictions on their subcellular localization and pathogenic nature. Analysis of the distribution of proteins across the Triton X-114 fractions with the predicted characteristics is performed based on "number" of unique type of proteins, and "quantity" which represents the amount of unique protein. The highest number of predicted outer membrane proteins (OMPs) and pathogenic proteins are found in aqueous and pellet fractions, whereas detergent fraction representing the OM has the highest quantity of OMPs and pathogenic proteins though lower in number than the aqueous and pellet fractions. This leaves the possibility of an upsurge in pathogenic proteins and OMPs on the OM under pathogenic conditions suggesting their potential use to combat leptospirosis. Further, the Triton X-114 subcellular fractions are more correlated to enrichment of pathogenic proteins predicted by MP3 software than predicted localization.
PXD020852	32846426	The calcium-permeable channel OSCA1.3 regulates plant stomatal immunity. 	The calcium-permeable channel OSCA1.3 regulates plant stomatal immunity	calcium channel, immunity, phosphorylation, plant	Perception of biotic and abiotic stresses often leads to stomatal closure in plants(1,2). Rapid influx of calcium ions (Ca(2+)) across the plasma membrane has an important role in this response, but the identity of the Ca(2+) channels involved has remained elusive(3,4). Here we report that the Arabidopsis thaliana Ca(2+)-permeable channel OSCA1.3 controls stomatal closure during immune signalling. OSCA1.3 is rapidly phosphorylated upon perception of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). Biochemical and quantitative phosphoproteomics analyses reveal that the immune receptor-associated cytosolic kinase BIK1 interacts with and phosphorylates the N-terminal cytosolic loop of OSCA1.3 within minutes of treatment with the peptidic PAMP flg22, which is derived from bacterial flagellin. Genetic and electrophysiological data reveal that OSCA1.3 is permeable to Ca(2+), and that BIK1-mediated phosphorylation on its N terminus increases this channel activity. Notably, OSCA1.3 and its phosphorylation by BIK1 are critical for stomatal closure during immune signalling, and OSCA1.3 does not regulate stomatal closure upon perception of abscisic acid-a plant hormone associated with abiotic stresses. This study thus identifies a plant Ca(2+) channel and its activation mechanisms underlying stomatal closure during immune signalling, and suggests specificity in Ca(2+) influx mechanisms in response to different stresses.
PXD020851	32847508	Combined transcriptome and proteome profiling of the pancreatic beta-cell response to palmitate unveils key pathways of beta-cell lipotoxicity. 	Time course treatment with Palmitate and thapsigargin of insulinoma INS-1E cells	Palmitate, diabetes, insulinoma, thapsigargin	BACKGROUND: Prolonged exposure to elevated free fatty acids induces beta-cell failure (lipotoxicity) and contributes to the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. In vitro exposure of beta-cells to the saturated free fatty acid palmitate is a valuable model of lipotoxicity, reproducing features of beta-cell failure observed in type 2 diabetes. In order to map the beta-cell response to lipotoxicity, we combined RNA-sequencing of palmitate-treated human islets with iTRAQ proteomics of insulin-secreting INS-1E cells following a time course exposure to palmitate. RESULTS: Crossing transcriptome and proteome of palmitate-treated beta-cells revealed 85 upregulated and 122 downregulated genes at both transcript and protein level. Pathway analysis identified lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, amino-acid metabolism and cell cycle pathways among the most enriched palmitate-modified pathways. Palmitate induced gene expression changes compatible with increased free fatty acid mitochondrial import and beta-oxidation, decreased lipogenesis and modified cholesterol transport. Palmitate modified genes regulating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) function, ER-to-Golgi transport and ER stress pathways. Furthermore, palmitate modulated cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) signaling, inhibiting expression of PKA anchoring proteins and downregulating the GLP-1 receptor. SLC7 family amino-acid transporters were upregulated in response to palmitate but this induction did not contribute to beta-cell demise. To unravel critical mediators of lipotoxicity upstream of the palmitate-modified genes, we identified overrepresented transcription factor binding sites and performed network inference analysis. These identified LXR, PPARalpha, FOXO1 and BACH1 as key transcription factors orchestrating the metabolic and oxidative stress responses to palmitate. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to combine transcriptomic and sensitive time course proteomic profiling of palmitate-exposed beta-cells. Our results provide comprehensive insight into gene and protein expression changes, corroborating and expanding beyond previous findings. The identification of critical drivers and pathways of the beta-cell lipotoxic response points to novel therapeutic targets for type 2 diabetes.
PXD019717	32848020	ITEM-THREE analysis of a monoclonal anti-malaria antibody reveals its assembled epitope on the pfMSP119 antigen. 	Epitope mapping of an anti-plasmodium pfMSP119 antibody by Intact Transition Epitope Mapping - Targeted High-Energy Rupture of Extracted Epitopes	Plasmodium falciparum, assembled epitope, epitope mapping, malaria screening, pfMSP119 antigen	Rapid diagnostic tests are first-line assays for diagnosing infectious diseases, such as malaria. To minimize false positive and false negative test results in population-screening assays, high-quality reagents and well-characterized antigens and antibodies are needed. An important property of antigen-antibody binding is recognition specificity, which best can be estimated by mapping an antibody's epitope on the respective antigen. We have cloned a malarial antigen-containing fusion protein, MBP-pfMSP119, in Escherichia coli, which then was structurally and functionally characterized before and after high pressure-assisted enzymatic digestion. We then used our previously developed method, intact transition epitope mapping-targeted high-energy rupture of extracted epitopes (ITEM-THREE), to map the area on the MBP-pfMSP119 antigen surface that is recognized by the anti-pfMSP119 antibody G17.12. We identified three epitope-carrying peptides, (386)GRNISQHQCVKKQCPQNSGCFRHLDE(411), (386)GRNISQHQCVKKQCPQNSGCFRHLDEREE(414), and (415)CKCLLNYKQE(424), from the GluC-derived peptide mixture. These peptides belong to an assembled (conformational) epitope on the MBP-pfMSP119 antigen whose identification was substantiated by positive and negative control experiments. In conclusion, our data help to establish a workflow to obtain high-quality control data for diagnostic assays, including the use of ITEM-THREE as a powerful analytical tool. Data are available via ProteomeXchange: PXD019717.
PXD015242	32848131	Y772 phosphorylation of EphA2 is responsible for EphA2-dependent NPC nasopharyngeal carcinoma growth by Shp2/Erk-1/2 signaling pathway. 	Identification of proteins  interacted with  EphA2 in nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells by LC-MS / MS	EphA2, LC-MS / MS, nasopharyngeal carcinoma	EphA2 is an important oncogenic protein and emerging drug target, but the oncogenic role and mechanism of ligand-independent phosphorylation of EphA2 at tyrosine 772 (pY772-EphA2) is unclear. In this study, we established nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cell lines with stable expression of exogenous EphA2 and EphA2-Y772A (phosphorylation inactivation) using endogenous EphA2-knockdown cells, and observed that pY772A EphA2 was responsible for EphA2-promoting NPC cell proliferation and anchorage-independent and in vivo growth in mice. Mechanistically, EphA2-Y772A mediated EphA2-activating Shp2/Erk-1/2 signaling pathway in the NPC cells, and Gab1 (Grb2-associated binder 1) and Grb2 (growth factor receptor-bound protein 2) were involved in pY772-EphA2 activating this signaling pathway. Our results further showed that Shp2/Erk-1/2 signaling mediated pY772-EphA2-promoting NPC cell proliferation and anchorage-independent growth. Moreover, we observed that EphA2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor ALW-II-41-27 inhibited pY772-EphA2 and EphA2-Y772A decreased the inhibitory effect of ALW-II-41-27 on NPC cell proliferation. Collectively, our results demonstrate that pY772-EphA2 is responsible for EphA2-dependent NPC cell growth in vitro and in vivo by activating Shp2/Erk-1/2 signaling pathway, and is a pharmacologic target of ALW-II-41-27, suggesting that pY772-EphA2 can serve as a therapeutic target in NPC and perhaps in other cancers.
PXD013489	32848136	ITGB3-mediated uptake of small extracellular vesicles facilitates intercellular communication in breast cancer cells. 	Connecting extracellular vesicle uptake and exosome biogenesis: intercellular communication in breast cancer cells is ITGB3-dependent	ITGB3, breast cancer, extracellular vesicle	Metastasis, the spread of malignant cells from a primary tumour to distant sites, causes 90% of cancer-related deaths. The integrin ITGB3 has been previously described to play an essential role in breast cancer metastasis, but the precise mechanisms remain undefined. We have now uncovered essential and thus far unknown roles of ITGB3 in vesicle uptake. The functional requirement for ITGB3 derives from its interactions with heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) and the process of integrin endocytosis, allowing the capture of extracellular vesicles and their endocytosis-mediated internalization. Key for the function of ITGB3 is the interaction and activation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), which is required for endocytosis of these vesicles. Thus, ITGB3 has a central role in intracellular communication via extracellular vesicles, proposed to be critical for cancer metastasis.
PXD017347	32848694	Identification of Potential Interacting Proteins With the Extracellular Loops of the Neuronal Glycoprotein M6a by TMT/MS. 	TMT spectrometry unveils key M6a interactorsTMT spectrometry unveils key M6a interactors	Co-immunoprecipitation, Glycoprotein M6a, Hippocampus, Rattus norvegicus, TMT-MS, protein-protein interactions	Nowadays, great efforts are made to gain insight into the molecular mechanisms that underlie structural neuronal plasticity. Moreover, the identification of signaling pathways involved in the development of psychiatric disorders aids the screening of possible therapeutic targets. Genetic variations or alterations in GPM6A expression are linked to neurological disorders such as schizophrenia, depression, and Alzheimer's disease. GPM6A encodes the neuronal surface glycoprotein M6a that promotes filopodia/spine, dendrite, and synapse formation by unknown mechanisms. A substantial body of evidence suggests that the extracellular loops of M6a command its function. However, the proteins that associate with them and that modulate neuronal plasticity have not been determined yet. To address this question, we generated a chimera protein that only contains the extracellular loops of M6a and performed a co-immunoprecipitation with rat hippocampus samples followed by TMT/MS. Here, we report 72 proteins, which are good candidates to interact with M6a's extracellular loops and modify its function. Gene ontology (GO) analysis showed that 63% of the potential M6a's interactor proteins belong to the category "synapse," at both sides of the synaptic cleft, "neuron projections" (51%) and "presynapse" (49%). In this sense, we showed that endogenous M6a interacts with piccolo, synaptic vesicle protein 2B, and synapsin 1 in mature cultured hippocampal neurons. Interestingly, about 28% of the proteins left were related to the "myelin sheath" annotation, suggesting that M6a could interact with proteins at the surface of oligodendrocytes. Indeed, we demonstrated the (cis and trans) interaction between M6a and proteolipid protein (PLP) in neuroblastoma N2a cells. Finally, the 72 proteins were subjected to disease-associated genes and variants screening by DisGeNET. Apart from the diseases that have already been associated with M6a, most of the proteins are also involved in "autistic disorder," "epilepsy," and "seizures" increasing the spectrum of disorders in which M6a could play a role. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD017347.
PXD015006	32849183	Longitudinal Stroke Recovery Associated With Dysregulation of Complement System-A Proteomics Pathway Analysis. 	Stroke Recovery Dominated by Dysregulation of Complement System -  A Longitudinal Proteomics Pathway Analysis	EDTA plasma, Q exactive HF, Stroke, blood	Currently the longitudinal proteomic profile of post-ischemic stroke recovery is relatively unknown with few well-accepted biomarkers or understanding of the biological systems that underpin recovery. We aimed to characterize plasma derived biological pathways associated with recovery during the first year post event using a discovery proteomics workflow coupled with a topological pathway systems biology approach. Blood samples (n = 180, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid plasma) were collected from a subgroup of 60 first episode stroke survivors from the Australian START study at 3 timepoints: 3-7 days (T1), 3-months (T2) and 12-months (T3) post-stroke. Samples were analyzed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry using label-free quantification (data available at ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD015006). Differential expression analysis revealed that 29 proteins between T1 and T2, and 33 proteins between T1 and T3 were significantly different, with 18 proteins commonly differentially expressed across the two time periods. Pathway analysis was conducted using Gene Graph Enrichment Analysis on both the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Reactome databases. Pathway analysis revealed that the significantly differentiated proteins between T1 and T2 were consistently found to belong to the complement pathway. Further correlational analyses utilized to examine the changes in regulatory effects of proteins over time identified significant inhibitory regulation of clusterin on complement component 9. Longitudinal post-stroke blood proteomics profiles suggest that the alternative pathway of complement activation remains in a state of higher activation from 3-7 days to 3 months post-stroke, while simultaneously being regulated by clusterin and vitronectin. These findings also suggest that post-stroke induced sterile inflammation and immunosuppression could inhibit recovery within the 3-month window post-stroke.
PXD019218	32849426	Lipoproteins Contribute to the Anti-inflammatory Capacity of Lactobacillus plantarum WCFS1. 	Lipoproteins contribute to the anti-inflammatory capacity of Lactobacillus plantarum WCFS1	LGT, Lactobacillus plantarum, Toll-like receptor signaling, host-microbe interactions, lipoproteins, prolipoprotein diacylglyceryltransferase	Bacterial lipoproteins are well-recognized microorganism-associated molecular patterns, which interact with Toll-like receptor (TLR) 2, an important pattern recognition receptor of the host innate immune system. Lipoproteins are conjugated with two- or three-acyl chains (di- or tri-acyl), which is essential for appropriate anchoring in the cell membrane as well as for the interaction with TLR2. Lipoproteins have mostly been studied in pathogens and have established roles in various biological processes, such as nutrient import, cell wall cross-linking and remodeling, and host-cell interaction. By contrast, information on the role of lipoproteins in the physiology and host interaction of probiotic bacteria is scarce. By deletion of lgt, encoding prolipoprotein diacylglyceryl transferase, responsible for lipidation of lipoprotein precursors, we investigated the roles of the collective group of lipoproteins in the physiology of the probiotic model strain Lactobacillus plantarum WCFS1 using proteomic analysis of secreted proteins. To investigate the consequences of the lgt mutation in host-cell interaction, the capacity of mutant and wild-type bacteria to stimulate TLR2 signaling and inflammatory responses was compared using (reporter-) cell-based models. These experiments exemplified the critical contribution of the acyl chains of lipoproteins in immunomodulation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that investigated collective lipoprotein functions in a model strain for probiotic lactobacilli, and we show that the lipoproteins in L. plantarum WCFS1 are critical drivers of anti-inflammatory host responses toward this strain.
PXD020384	32849459	Hydrogen Sulfide Sensitizes Acinetobacter baumannii to Killing by Antibiotics. 	Hydrogen sulfide sensitizes Acinetobacter baumannii to killing by antibiotics.	AMR, Acinetobacter baumannii, Hydrogen sulfide	The production of endogenous hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has been shown to confer antibiotic tolerance in all bacteria studied to date. Therefore, this mediator has been speculated to be a universal defense mechanism against antibiotics in bacteria. This is assuming that all bacteria produce endogenous H2S. In this study, we established that the pathogenic bacteria Acinetobacter baumannii does not produce endogenous H2S, giving us the opportunity to test the effect of exogenous H2S on antibiotic tolerance in a bacterium that does not produce it. By using a H2S-releasing compound to modulate the sulfide content in A. baumannii, we demonstrated that instead of conferring antibiotic tolerance, exogenous H2S sensitized A. baumannii to multiple antibiotic classes, and was able to revert acquired resistance to gentamicin. Exogenous H2S triggered a perturbation of redox and energy homeostasis that translated into hypersensitivity to antibiotic killing. We propose that H2S could be used as an antibiotic-potentiator and resistance-reversion agent in bacteria that do not produce it.
PXD018533	32849460	Verticillium longisporum Elicits Media-Dependent Secretome Responses With Capacity to Distinguish Between Plant-Related Environments. 	V. longisporum elicits media-dependent secretome responses with a further capacity to distinguish between plant-related environments	Brassica napus, Verticillium longisporum, exoproteome, plant pathogen, secretome, xylem sap	Verticillia cause a vascular wilt disease affecting a broad range of economically valuable crops. The fungus enters its host plants through the roots and colonizes the vascular system. It requires extracellular proteins for a successful plant colonization. The exoproteomes of the allodiploid Verticillium longisporum upon cultivation in different media or xylem sap extracted from its host plant Brassica napus were compared. Secreted fungal proteins were identified by label free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry screening. V. longisporum induced two main secretion patterns. One response pattern was elicited in various non-plant related environments. The second pattern includes the exoprotein responses to the plant-related media, pectin-rich simulated xylem medium and pure xylem sap, which exhibited similar but additional distinct features. These exoproteomes include a shared core set of 221 secreted and similarly enriched fungal proteins. The pectin-rich medium significantly induced the secretion of 143 proteins including a number of pectin degrading enzymes, whereas xylem sap triggered a smaller but unique fungal exoproteome pattern with 32 enriched proteins. The latter pattern included proteins with domains of known pathogenicity factors, metallopeptidases and carbohydrate-active enzymes. The most abundant proteins of these different groups are the necrosis and ethylene inducing-like proteins Nlp2 and Nlp3, the cerato-platanin proteins Cp1 and Cp2, the metallopeptidases Mep1 and Mep2 and the carbohydrate-active enzymes Gla1, Amy1 and Cbd1. Their pathogenicity contribution was analyzed in the haploid parental strain V. dahliae. Deletion of the majority of the corresponding genes caused no phenotypic changes during ex planta growth or invasion and colonization of tomato plants. However, we discovered that the MEP1, NLP2, and NLP3 deletion strains were compromised in plant infections. Overall, our exoproteome approach revealed that the fungus induces specific secretion responses in different environments. The fungus has a general response to non-plant related media whereas it is able to fine-tune its exoproteome in the presence of plant material. Importantly, the xylem sap-specific exoproteome pinpointed Nlp2 and Nlp3 as single effectors required for successful V. dahliae colonization.
PXD019302	32849481	Comparative Genomic and Secretomic Analysis Provide Insights Into Unique Agar Degradation Function of Marine Bacterium Vibrio fluvialis A8 Through Horizontal Gene Transfer. 	Vibrio fluvialis A8 secretome nanoLC-MS/MS	Vibrio fluvialis A8, nanoLC-MS/MS, secretome	Agarose-oligosaccharide production from agar degradation by agarase exhibits lots of advantages and good application prospects. In this study, a novel agar-degrading bacterium Vibrio sp. A8 was isolated from a red algae in the South China Sea. The whole genome sequencing with comparative genomic and secretomic analysis were used to better understand its genetic components about agar degradation. This strain exhibited good agarase production in artificial seawater after culture optimization. The complete genome (4.88 Mb) of this strain comprised two circular chromosomes (3.19 and 1.69 Mb) containing 4,572 protein-coding genes, 108 tRNA genes and 31 rRNA genes. This strain was identified as Vibrio fluvialis A8 by comparative genomic analysis based on genome phylogenetic tree and average nucleotide identity (ANI) similarity. Different from other 20 similar strains including three strains of the same species, V. fluvialis A8 possessed unique agar degradation ability with four beta-agarases (GH50) and one alpha-1,3-L-NA2 hydrolase (GH117) due to the horizontal gene transfer. Secretomic analysis showed that only beta-agarase (gene 3152) was abundantly expressed in the secretome of V. fluvialis A8. This agarase had a good substrate specificity and wide work conditions in complex environments, suggesting its potential application for agarose-oligosaccharide production.
PXD017798	32849749	Identification of Hydroxyproline-Containing Proteins and Hydroxylation of Proline Residues in Rice. 	hydroxyproline-containing proteins of rice	rice hydroxyproline-containing proteins AGPs	The hydroxyproline-containing proteins (HCPs) among secretory and vacuolar proteins play important roles in growth and development of higher plants. Many hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins (HRGPs), including Arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs), extensins (EXTs), and proline-rich proteins (PRPs), are identified as HCPs by bioinformatics approaches. The experimental evidence for validation of novel proline hydroxylation sites is vital for understanding their functional roles. In this study, the 62 HCPs containing 114 hydroxyproline (O, Hyp) residues were identified, and it was found that hydroxylation of proline residues in the HCPs could either constitute attachment sites for glycans or have other biological function in rice. The glycomodules of AO, OA, OG, VO, LO, and OE were abundant in the 62 HCPs. Further analysis showed that the 22 of 62 HCPs contained both signal peptides and transmembrane domains, and the 19 HCPs only contained transmembrane domains, while 21 HCPs contained neither. This study indicated the feasibility of mass spectrometry-based proteomics combined with bioinformatics approaches for the large-scale characterization of Hyp sites from complex protein digest mixtures. Furthermore, the expression of AGPs in rice was detected by using beta-GlcY reagent and JIM13 antibody. The results displayed that the AGPs were widely distributed in different tissues and organs of rice, especially expressed highly in lateral root, pollen and embryo. In conclusion, our study revealed that the HCPs and Hyp residues in rice were ubiquitous and that these Hyps could be candidates for linking to glycans, which laid the foundation for further studying the functions of HCPs and hydroxylation of proline residues in rice.
PXD015739	32850772	Proteomic Analysis Reveals a Mitochondrial Remodeling of betaTC3 Cells in Response to Nanotopography. 	Characterization of mitochondrial proteome in human langherans cells		Recently, using cluster-assembled zirconia substrates with tailored roughness produced by supersonic cluster beam deposition, we demonstrated that beta cells can sense nanoscale features of the substrate and can translate these stimuli into a mechanotransductive pathway capable of preserveing beta-cell differentiation and function in vitro in long-term cultures of human islets. Using the same proteomic approach, we now focused on the mitochondrial fraction of betaTC3 cells grown on the same zirconia substrates and characterized the morphological and proteomic modifications induced by the nanostructure. The results suggest that, in betaTC3 cells, mitochondria are perturbed by the nanotopography and activate a program involving metabolism modification and modulation of their interplay with other organelles. Data were confirmed in INS1E, a different beta-cell model. The change induced by the nanostructure can be pro-survival and prime mitochondria for a metabolic switch to match the new cell needs.
PXD015975	32850805	Host-Defense Peptides Caerin 1.1 and 1.9 Stimulate TNF-Alpha-Dependent Apoptotic Signals in Human Cervical Cancer HeLa Cells. 	Host-defence peptides caerin 1.1 and 1.9 stimulate TNF-alpha-dependent apoptosis in human cervical cancer HeLa cells	HeLa cell, TMT labelling, TNFalpha signalling pathway, apoptosis, caerin peptide, confocal microscopy, western blot	Host defense caerin 1.1 and 1.9 peptides, isolated from the glandular secretion of Australian tree frogs, the genus Litoria, have been previously shown to have multiple biological activities, including the inhibition of human papillomavirus (HPV) 16 early protein E7 transformed murine as well as human cancerous cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. However, the mechanism underlying their anti-proliferative activities against HPV18+ cervical cancer HeLa cells remains unknown. This study comparatively investigated the anti-proliferation on HeLa cells by caerin 1.1, 1.9, and their mixture, followed by confocal microscopy examination to assess the cellular intake of the peptides. Tandem mass tag labeling proteomics was employed to reveal the proteins that were significantly regulated by the peptide treatment in cells and cell growth environment, to elucidate the signaling pathways that were modulated. Western blot was performed to confirm the modulation of the pathways. Both caerin 1.1 and 1.9 highly inhibited HeLa cell proliferation with a significant additive effect compared to untreated and control peptide. They entered the cells with different magnitudes. Intensive protein-protein interaction was detected among significantly upregulated proteins. Translation, folding and localization of proteins and RNA processing, apoptosis process was significantly enriched post the treatments. The apoptotic signaling was suggested as a result of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) pathway activation, indicated by the dose-dependent elevated levels of caspase 3 and caspase 9. The epidermal growth factor receptor and androgen receptor pathways appeared inhibited by the peptides. Moreover, the activation of T-cell receptor derived from the quantitation results further implies the likelihood of recruiting more T cells to the cell growth environment post the treatment and more sensitive to T cell mediated killing of HeLa cells. Our results indicate that caerin 1.1 and 1.9 mediate apoptotic signals of HeLa cells and may subsequently enhances adaptive T cell immune responses.
PXD019473	32850835	BAG5 Promotes Alpha-Synuclein Oligomer Formation and Functionally Interacts With the Autophagy Adaptor Protein p62. 	BAG5 functionally interacts with the autophagy adaptor protein p62	BAG5, alpha-synuclein, bcl-2 associated athanogene, chaperones, p62, proteostasis, sequestosome-1	Molecular chaperones are critical to maintaining intracellular proteostasis and have been shown to have a protective role against alpha-synuclein-mediated toxicity. Co-chaperone proteins regulate the activity of molecular chaperones and connect the chaperone network to protein degradation and cell death pathways. Bcl-2 associated athanogene 5 (BAG5) is a co-chaperone that modulates proteostasis by inhibiting the activity of Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) and several E3 ubiquitin ligases, resulting in enhanced neurodegeneration in models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here we identify a novel interaction between BAG5 and p62/sequestosome-1 (SQSTM1), suggesting that BAG5 may bridge the chaperone network to autophagy-mediated protein degradation. We found that BAG5 enhanced the formation of pathogenic alpha-synuclein oligomers and regulated the levels and subcellular distribution of p62. These results extend the role of BAG5 in alpha-synuclein processing and intracellular proteostasis.
PXD020906	32851475	Novel carfilzomib-based combinations as potential therapeutic strategies for liposarcomas. 	Novel carfilzomib-based combinations as potential therapeutic strategies for liposarcomas	Carfilzomib, Liposarcoma, Proteasome, SILAC, quantitative mass spectrometry	Proteasome inhibitors, such as bortezomib and carfilzomib, have shown efficacy in anti-cancer therapy in hematological diseases but not in solid cancers. Here, we found that liposarcomas (LPS) are susceptible to proteasome inhibition, and identified drugs that synergize with carfilzomib, such as selinexor, an inhibitor of XPO1-mediated nuclear export. Through quantitative nuclear protein profiling and phospho-kinase arrays, we identified potential mode of actions of this combination, including interference with ribosome biogenesis and inhibition of pro-survival kinase PRAS40. Furthermore, by assessing global protein levels changes, FADS2, a key enzyme regulating fatty acids synthesis, was found down-regulated after proteasome inhibition. Interestingly, SC26196, an inhibitor of FADS2, synergized with carfilzomib. Finally, to identify further combinational options, we performed high-throughput drug screening and uncovered novel drug interactions with carfilzomib. For instance, cyclosporin A, a known immunosuppressive agent, enhanced carfilzomib's efficacy in vitro and in vivo. Altogether, these results demonstrate that carfilzomib and its combinations could be repurposed for LPS clinical management.
PXD019988	32851973	A cross-kingdom conserved ER-phagy receptor maintains endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis during stress. 	A cross-kingdom conserved ER-phagy receptor maintains endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis during stress	ER-phagy, ER-stress, IP/MS, TMT-11plex, Tunicamycin, whole seedlings	Eukaryotes have evolved various quality control mechanisms to promote proteostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Selective removal of certain ER domains via autophagy (termed as ER-phagy) has emerged as a major quality control mechanism. However, the degree to which ER-phagy is employed by other branches of ER-quality control remains largely elusive. Here, we identify a cytosolic protein, C53, that is specifically recruited to autophagosomes during ER-stress, in both plant and mammalian cells. C53 interacts with ATG8 via a distinct binding epitope, featuring a shuffled ATG8 interacting motif (sAIM). C53 senses proteotoxic stress in the ER lumen by forming a tripartite receptor complex with the ER-associated ufmylation ligase UFL1 and its membrane adaptor DDRGK1. The C53/UFL1/DDRGK1 receptor complex is activated by stalled ribosomes and induces the degradation of internal or passenger proteins in the ER. Consistently, the C53 receptor complex and ufmylation mutants are highly susceptible to ER stress. Thus, C53 forms an ancient quality control pathway that bridges selective autophagy with ribosome-associated quality control in the ER.
PXD019723	32853409	LRRK2 and Rab10 coordinate macropinocytosis to mediate immunological responses in phagocytes. 	Pull down of Rab10 interactors in Raw264.7 cells	APMS, LCMS	Genetic variation in LRRK2 associates with the susceptibility to Parkinson's disease, Crohn's disease, and mycobacteria infection. High expression of LRRK2 and its substrate Rab10 occurs in phagocytic cells in the immune system. In mouse and human primary macrophages, dendritic cells, and microglia-like cells, we find that Rab10 specifically regulates a specialized form of endocytosis known as macropinocytosis, without affecting phagocytosis or clathrin-mediated endocytosis. LRRK2 phosphorylates cytoplasmic PI(3,4,5)P3-positive GTP-Rab10, before EEA1 and Rab5 recruitment to early macropinosomes occurs. Macropinosome cargo in macrophages includes CCR5, CD11b, and MHCII, and LRRK2-phosphorylation of Rab10 potently blocks EHBP1L1-mediated recycling tubules and cargo turnover. EHBP1L1 overexpression competitively inhibits LRRK2-phosphorylation of Rab10, mimicking the effects of LRRK2 kinase inhibition in promoting cargo recycling. Both Rab10 knockdown and LRRK2 kinase inhibition potently suppress the maturation of macropinosome-derived CCR5-loaded signaling endosomes that are critical for CCL5-induced immunological responses that include Akt activation and chemotaxis. These data support a novel signaling axis in the endolysosomal system whereby LRRK2-mediated Rab10 phosphorylation stalls vesicle fast recycling to promote PI3K-Akt immunological responses.
PXD020379	32853754	Tissue- and isoform-specific protein complex analysis with natively processed bait proteins. 	Tissue- and isoform-specific protein complex analysis with natively processed bait proteins	Flag tag, tissue-specific complex	Protein-protein interaction analysis is an important tool to elucidate the function of proteins and protein complexes as well as their dynamic behavior. To date, the analysis of tissue- or even cell- or compartment-specific protein interactions is still relying on the availability of specific antibodies suited for immunoprecipitation. Here, we aimed at establishing a method that allows identification of protein interactions and complexes from intact tissues independent of specific, high affinity antibodies used for protein pull-down and isolation. Tagged bait proteins were expressed in human HEK293T cells and residual interactors removed by SDS. The resulting tag-fusion protein was then used as bait to pull proteins from tissue samples. Tissue-specific interactions were reproducibly identified from porcine retina as well as from retinal pigment epithelium using the ciliary protein lebercilin as bait. Further, murine heart-specific interactors of two gene products of the 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-dependent protein kinase type 1 (cGK1) were investigated. Here, specific interactions were associated with the cGK1alpha and beta gene products, that differ only in their unique amino-terminal region comprising about 100 aa. As such, the new protocol provides a fast and reliable method for tissue-specific protein complex analysis which is independent of the availability or suitability of antibodies for immunoprecipitation. SIGNIFICANCE: Protein-protein interaction in the functional relevant tissue is still difficult due to the dependence on specific antibodies or bait production in bacteria or insect cells. Here, the tagged protein of interest is produced in a human cell line and bound proteins are gently removed using SDS. Because applying the suitable SDS concentration is a critical step, different SDS solutions were tested to demonstrate their influence on interactions and the clean-up process. The established protocol enabled a tissue-specific analysis of the ciliary proteins lebercilin and TMEM107 using pig eyes. In addition, two gene products of the 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-dependent protein kinase type 1 showed distinct protein interactions in mouse heart tissue. With the easy, fast and cheap protocol presented here, deep insights in tissue-specific and functional relevant protein complex formation is possible.
PXD012059	32854643	Molecular abnormalities in autopsied brain tissue from the inferior horn of the lateral ventricles of nonagenarians and Alzheimer disease patients. 	Ventriculomics analyses of autopsy AD tissue	LCMS, lateral ventricules, protein	BACKGROUND: The ventricular system plays a vital role in blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) exchange and interstitial fluid-CSF drainage pathways. CSF is formed in the specialized secretory tissue called the choroid plexus, which consists of epithelial cells, fenestrated capillaries and the highly vascularized stroma. Very little is currently known about the role played by the ventricles and the choroid plexus tissue in aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). METHODS: In this study, we used our state-of-the-art proteomic platform, a liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approach coupled with Tandem Mass Tag isobaric labeling to conduct a detailed unbiased proteomic analyses of autopsied tissue isolated from the walls of the inferior horn of the lateral ventricles in AD (77.2 +/- 0.6 yrs), age-matched controls (77.0 +/- 0.5 yrs), and nonagenarian cases (93.2 +/- 1.1 yrs). RESULTS: Ingenuity pathway analyses identified phagosome maturation, impaired tight-junction signaling, and glucose/mannose metabolism as top significantly regulated pathways in controls vs nonagenarians. In matched-control vs AD cases we identified alterations in mitochondrial bioenergetics, oxidative stress, remodeling of epithelia adherens junction, macrophage recruitment and phagocytosis, and cytoskeletal dynamics. Nonagenarian vs AD cases demonstrated augmentation of oxidative stress, changes in gluconeogenesis-glycolysis pathways, and cellular effects of choroidal smooth muscle cell vasodilation. Amyloid plaque score uniquely correlated with remodeling of epithelial adherens junctions, Fc gamma-receptor mediated phagocytosis, and alterations in RhoA signaling. Braak staging was uniquely correlated with altered iron homeostasis, superoxide radical degradation and phagosome maturation. CONCLUSIONS: These changes provide novel insights to explain the compromise to the physiological properties and function of the ventricles/choroid plexus system in nonagenarian aging and AD pathogenesis. The pathways identified could provide new targets for therapeutic strategies to mitigate the divergent path towards AD.
PXD018824	32857759	Immiscible inclusion bodies formed by polyglutamine and poly(glycine-alanine) are enriched with distinct proteomes but converge in proteins that are risk factors for disease and involved in protein degradation. 	Inclusion bodies formed by polyglutamine and poly(glycine-alanine) are enriched with distinct proteomes but converge in proteins that are risk factors for disease and involved in protein degradation	C9PRF72, Huntington, PolyGA, aggregates	Poly(glycine-alanine) (polyGA) is one of the polydipeptides expressed in Frontotemporal Dementia and/or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis 1 caused by C9ORF72 mutations and accumulates as inclusion bodies in the brain of patients. Superficially these inclusions are similar to those formed by polyglutamine (polyQ)-expanded Huntingtin exon 1 (Httex1) in Huntington's disease. Both have been reported to form an amyloid-like structure suggesting they might aggregate via similar mechanisms and therefore recruit the same repertoire of endogenous proteins. When co-expressed in the same cell, polyGA101 and Httex1(Q97) inclusions adopted immiscible phases suggesting different endogenous proteins would be enriched. Proteomic analyses identified 822 proteins in the inclusions. Only 7 were specific to polyGA and 4 specific to Httex1(Q97). Quantitation demonstrated distinct enrichment patterns for the proteins not specific to each inclusion type (up to ~8-fold normalized to total mass). The proteasome, microtubules, TriC chaperones, and translational machinery were enriched in polyGA aggregates, whereas Dnaj chaperones, nuclear envelope and RNA splicing proteins were enriched in Httex1(Q97) aggregates. Both structures revealed a collection of folding and degradation machinery including proteins in the Httex1(Q97) aggregates that are risk factors for other neurodegenerative diseases involving protein aggregation when mutated, which suggests a convergence point in the pathomechanisms of these diseases.
PXD011887	32857852	RNA-binding and prion domains: the Yin and Yang of phase separation. 	Interactome of WT and mutant PUB1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Prion-like domain, RBP, RNA granules	Proteins and RNAs assemble in membrane-less organelles that organize intracellular spaces and regulate biochemical reactions. The ability of proteins and RNAs to form condensates is encoded in their sequences, yet it is unknown which domains drive the phase separation (PS) process and what are their specific roles. Here, we systematically investigated the human and yeast proteomes to find regions promoting condensation. Using advanced computational methods to predict the PS propensity of proteins, we designed a set of experiments to investigate the contributions of Prion-Like Domains (PrLDs) and RNA-binding domains (RBDs). We found that one PrLD is sufficient to drive PS, whereas multiple RBDs are needed to modulate the dynamics of the assemblies. In the case of stress granule protein Pub1 we show that the PrLD promotes sequestration of protein partners and the RBD confers liquid-like behaviour to the condensate. Our work sheds light on the fine interplay between RBDs and PrLD to regulate formation of membrane-less organelles, opening up the avenue for their manipulation.
PXD018376	32859246	Lysine-222 succinylation reduces lysosomal degradation of lactate dehydrogenase a and is increased in gastric cancer. 	Proteomic Quantification of Lysine Succinylation in Human Gastric Cancer	Lysine succinylation, gastric cancer	BACKGROUND: Lysine succinylation is an emerging posttranslational modification that has garnered increased attention recently, but its role in gastric cancer (GC) remains underexplored. METHODS: Proteomic quantification of lysine succinylation was performed in human GC tissues and adjacent normal tissues by mass spectrometry. The mRNA and protein levels of lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) in GC and adjacent normal tissues were analyzed by qRT-PCR and western blot, respectively. The expression of K222-succinylated LDHA was measured in GC tissue microarray by the K222 succinylation-specific antibody. The interaction between LDHA and sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1) was measured by co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) and proximity ligation assay (PLA). The binding of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A) to LDHA was determined by co-IP. The effect of K222-succinylated LDHA on tumor growth and metastasis was evaluated by in vitro and in vivo experiments. RESULTS: Altogether, 503 lysine succinylation sites in 303 proteins were identified. Lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), the key enzyme in Warburg effect, was found highly succinylated at K222 in GC. Intriguingly, this modification did not affect LDHA ubiquitination, but reduced the binding of ubiquitinated LDHA to SQSTM1, thereby decreasing its lysosomal degradation. We demonstrated that CPT1A functions as a lysine succinyltransferase that interacts with and succinylates LDHA. Moreover, high K222-succinylation of LDHA was associated with poor prognosis in patients with GC. Finally, overexpression of a succinylation-mimic mutant of LDHA promoted cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. CONCLUSIONS: Our data revealed a novel lysosomal pathway of LDHA degradation, which is mediated by the binding of K63-ubiquitinated LDHA to SQSTM1. Strikingly, CPT1A succinylates LDHA on K222, which thereby reduces the binding and inhibits the degradation of LDHA, as well as promotes GC invasion and proliferation. This study thus uncovers a new role of lysine succinylation and the mechanism underlying LDHA upregulation in GC.
PXD008246	32859889	LIMK2 promotes the metastatic progression of triple-negative breast cancer by activating SRPK1. 	Identification of novel LIMK2 phosphorylation substrates	LIMK2, breast cancer, invasion, phosphorylation	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a highly metastatic breast cancer subtype and due to the lack of hormone receptors and HER2 expression, TNBC has limited therapeutic options with chemotherapy being the primary choice for systemic therapy. LIM Domain Kinase 2 (LIMK2) is a serine/threonine kinase that plays an important role in the regulation of actin filament dynamics. Here, we show that LIM domain kinase 2 (LIMK2) is overexpressed in TNBC, and short-hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated LIMK2 knockdown or its pharmacological inhibition blocks metastatic attributes of TNBC cells. To determine the mechanism by which LIMK2 promotes TNBC metastatic progression, we performed stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) based unbiased large-scale phosphoproteomics analysis. This analysis identified 258 proteins whose phosphorylation was significantly reduced due to LIMK2 inhibition. Among these proteins, we identified SRSF protein kinase 1 (SRPK1), which encodes for a serine/arginine protein kinase specific for the SR (serine/arginine-rich domain) family of splicing factors. We show that LIMK2 inhibition blocked SRPK1 phosphorylation and consequentially its activity. Furthermore, similar to LIMK2, genetic inhibition of SRPK1 by shRNAs or its pharmacological inhibition blocked the metastatic attributes of TNBC cells. Moreover, the pharmacological inhibition of LIMK2 blocked metastatic progression in mice without affecting primary tumor growth. In sum, these results identified LIMK2 as a facilitator of distal TNBC metastasis and a potential target for preventing TNBC metastatic progression.
PXD020399	32859896	Genetically controlled membrane synthesis in liposomes. 	Targeted proteomics measurements for Genetically controlled membrane synthesis in liposomes	PURE, cell free, gene expression, lipid biosynthesis, synthetic cell	Lipid membranes, nucleic acids, proteins, and metabolism are essential for modern cellular life. Synthetic systems emulating the fundamental properties of living cells must therefore be built upon these functional elements. In this work, phospholipid-producing enzymes encoded in a synthetic minigenome are cell-free expressed within liposome compartments. The de novo synthesized metabolic pathway converts precursors into a variety of lipids, including the constituents of the parental liposome. Balanced production of phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylglycerol is realized, owing to transcriptional regulation of the activity of specific genes combined with a metabolic feedback mechanism. Fluorescence-based methods are developed to image the synthesis and membrane incorporation of phosphatidylserine at the single liposome level. Our results provide experimental evidence for DNA-programmed membrane synthesis in a minimal cell model. Strategies are discussed to alleviate current limitations toward effective liposome growth and self-reproduction.
PXD011163	32859902	Dynamic remodelling of the human host cell proteome and phosphoproteome upon enterovirus infection. 	Proteome and phosphoproteome dynamics of CVB3 infected cells	CVB3, HeLa, mTOR, phosphoproteome, virus	The group of enteroviruses contains many important pathogens for humans, including poliovirus, coxsackievirus, rhinovirus, as well as newly emerging global health threats such as EV-A71 and EV-D68. Here, we describe an unbiased, system-wide and time-resolved analysis of the proteome and phosphoproteome of human cells infected with coxsackievirus B3. Of the ~3,200 proteins quantified throughout the time course, a large amount (~25%) shows a significant change, with the majority being downregulated. We find ~85% of the detected phosphosites to be significantly regulated, implying that most changes occur at the post-translational level. Kinase-motif analysis reveals temporal activation patterns of certain protein kinases, with several CDKs/MAPKs immediately active upon the infection, and basophilic kinases, ATM, and ATR engaging later. Through bioinformatics analysis and dedicated experiments, we identify mTORC1 signalling as a major regulation network during enterovirus infection. We demonstrate that inhibition of mTORC1 activates TFEB, which increases expression of lysosomal and autophagosomal genes, and that TFEB activation facilitates the release of virions in extracellular vesicles via secretory autophagy. Our study provides a rich framework for a system-level understanding of enterovirus-induced perturbations at the protein and signalling pathway levels, forming a base for the development of pharmacological inhibitors to treat enterovirus infections.
PXD018403	32859966	Loss of beta-cell identity and diabetic phenotype in mice caused by disruption of CNOT3-dependent mRNA deadenylation. 	Functional analysis of CNOT3 in pancreatic beta cells	islets	Pancreatic beta-cells are responsible for production and secretion of insulin in response to increasing blood glucose levels. Defects in beta-cell function lead to hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus. Here, we show that CNOT3, a CCR4-NOT deadenylase complex subunit, is dysregulated in islets in diabetic db/db mice, and that it is essential for murine beta cell maturation and identity. Mice with beta cell-specific Cnot3 deletion (Cnot3betaKO) exhibit impaired glucose tolerance, decreased beta cell mass, and they gradually develop diabetes. Cnot3betaKO islets display decreased expression of key regulators of beta cell maturation and function. Moreover, they show an increase of progenitor cell markers, beta cell-disallowed genes, and genes relevant to altered beta cell function. Cnot3betaKO islets exhibit altered deadenylation and increased mRNA stability, partly accounting for the increased expression of those genes. Together, these data reveal that CNOT3-mediated mRNA deadenylation and decay constitute previously unsuspected post-transcriptional mechanisms essential for beta cell identity.
PXD020124	32860158	PKCgamma-Mediated Phosphorylation of CRMP2 Regulates Dendritic Outgrowth in Cerebellar Purkinje Cells. 	PKCgamma-mediated phosphorylation of CRMP2 regulates dendritic outgrowth in cerebellar Purkinje cells	LC-MS	The signalling protein PKCgamma is a major regulator of Purkinje cell development and synaptic function. We have shown previously that increased PKCgamma activity impairs dendritic development of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Mutations in the protein kinase Cgamma gene (PRKCG) cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14). In a transgenic mouse model of SCA14 expressing the human S361G mutation, Purkinje cell dendritic development is impaired in cerebellar slice cultures similar to pharmacological activation of PKC. The mechanisms of PKCgamma-driven inhibition of dendritic growth are still unclear. Using immunoprecipitation-coupled mass spectrometry analysis, we have identified collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2) as a protein interacting with constitutive active PKCgamma(S361G) and confirmed the interaction with the Duolink(TM) proximity ligation assay. We show that in cerebellar slice cultures from PKCgamma(S361G)-mice, phosphorylation of CRMP2 at the known PKC target site Thr555 is increased in Purkinje cells confirming phosphorylation of CRMP2 by PKCgamma. miRNA-mediated CRMP2 knockdown decreased Purkinje cell dendritic outgrowth in dissociated cerebellar cultures as did the transfection of CRMP2 mutants with a modified Thr555 site. In contrast, dendritic development was normal after wild-type CRMP2 overexpression. In a novel knock-in mouse expressing only the phospho-defective T555A-mutant CRMP2, Purkinje cell dendritic development was reduced in dissociated cultures. This reduction could be rescued by transfecting wild-type CRMP2 but only partially by the phospho-mimetic T555D-mutant. Our findings establish CRMP2 as an important target of PKCgamma phosphorylation in Purkinje cells mediating its control of dendritic development. Dynamic regulation of CRMP2 phosphorylation via PKCgamma is required for its correct function.
PXD015744	32860207	Co-expression analysis of pancreatic cancer proteome reveals biology and prognostic biomarkers. 	Co-expression analysis of label-free proteomics data reveals prognostic biomarkers in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Label-free, co-expression, fresh-frozen tissue, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, prognosis	PURPOSE: Despite extensive biological and clinical studies, including comprehensive genomic and transcriptomic profiling efforts, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains a devastating disease, with a poor survival and limited therapeutic options. The goal of this study was to assess co-expressed PDAC proteins and their associations with biological pathways and clinical parameters. METHODS: Correlation network analysis is emerging as a powerful approach to infer tumor biology from omics data and to prioritize candidate genes as biomarkers or drug targets. In this study, we applied a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to the proteome of 20 surgically resected PDAC specimens (PXD015744) and confirmed its clinical value in 82 independent primary cases. RESULTS: Using WGCNA, we obtained twelve co-expressed clusters with a distinct biology. Notably, we found that one module enriched for metabolic processes and epithelial-mesenchymal-transition (EMT) was significantly associated with overall survival (p = 0.01) and disease-free survival (p = 0.03). The prognostic value of three proteins (SPTBN1, KHSRP and PYGL) belonging to this module was confirmed using immunohistochemistry in a cohort of 82 independent resected patients. Risk score evaluation of the prognostic signature confirmed its association with overall survival in multivariate analyses. Finally, immunofluorescence analysis confirmed co-expression of SPTBN1 and KHSRP in Hs766t PDAC cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our WGCNA analysis revealed a PDAC module enriched for metabolic and EMT-associated processes. In addition, we found that three of the proteins involved were associated with PDAC survival.
PXD019222	32860578	Proteome landscape and spatial map of mouse primordial germ cells. 	Proteome landscape of mouse primordial germ cells	Primordial germ cells, meiosis, sex differentiation, spatial map	Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are precursors of both male and female gametes as fundamental materials for organism development. The transcriptome, methylome, and chromatin accessibility profiles of PGCs in both mice and humans have been recently reported. However, little is known about the characteristics of PGCs at the protein levels, which directly exert cellular functions. Here, we construct landscapes of both proteome and 3D spatial distribution of mouse PGCs at E11.5, E13.5 and E16.5 days, the three critical developmental windows for PGCs' sex differentiation, female meiosis initiation and male mitotic arrest. In each developmental stage of PGCs, nearly 2,000-3,000 proteins are identified, among which specific functional pathways such as oxidative phosphorylation, DNA damage repair, and meiotic cell cycle are involved for different events during PGCs development. Interestingly, by 3D modeling we find that PGCs spatially cluster into around 1,300 nests in genital ridge at E11.5 and the nest number is not increased by the exponential proliferation of PGCs. Comparative analysis of our proteomic data with published transcriptomic data does not show a close correlation, meaning that the practically executive factors are beyond the transcriptome. Thus, our work offers a valuable resource for the systematic investigations of PGC development at protein level and spatial map.
PXD009569	32862475	IL-16 processing in sentinel node regulatory T cells is a factor in bladder cancer immunity. 	Immunoproteomics of Lymph Node T-cells in Bladder Cancer	Cancer, Lymph Nodes, T-cells	In the effort of developing new immunotherapies, the sentinel node (SN) has proven a promising source from which to harness an effective antitumour T cell response. However, tumour immune escape, a process in which regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a central role, remains a major limiting factor. Therefore, there is a clear need to increase the knowledge of Treg function and signalling in sentinel nodes. Here, we set out to explore whether the proteome in SN-resident T cells is altered by the tumour and to identify key proteins in SN T cell signalling, focusing on Tregs. Five patients with muscle-invasive urothelial bladder cancer were prospectively included. Mass spectrometry was performed on two patients, with validation and functional studies being performed on three additional patients and four healthy donors. At cystectomy, SN, non-SN lymph nodes and peripheral blood samples were collected from the patients and T cell subsets isolated through flow cytometry before downstream experiments. Proteomic analysis indicated that growth and immune signalling pathways are upregulated in SN-resident Tregs. Furthermore, centrality analysis identified the cytokine IL-16 to be central in the SN-Treg signalling network. We show that tumour-released factors, through activating caspase-3, increase Treg IL-16 processing into bioactive forms, reinforcing Treg suppressive capacity. In conclusion, we provide evidence that Tregs exposed to secreted factors from bladder tumours show increased immune and growth signalling and altered IL-16 processing which translates to enhanced Treg suppressive function, indicating altered IL-16 signalling as a novel tumour immune escape mechanism.
PXD019331	32862708	Galectin-7 Impairs Placentation and Causes Preeclampsia Features in Mice. 	H. sapiens First trimester placental villous explant 0conditioned media; galectin-7/BSA treatment; 2% O2	2% O2, Label free Quantification, Placenta, conditioned media, galectin-7/BSA treatment, villous	Preeclampsia is a serious pregnancy-induced disorder unique to humans. The etiology of preeclampsia is poorly understood; however, poor placental formation is thought causal. Galectin-7 is produced by trophoblast and is elevated in first-trimester serum of women who subsequently develop preeclampsia. We hypothesized that elevated placental galectin-7 may be causative of preeclampsia. Here, we demonstrated increased galectin-7 production in chorionic villous samples from women who subsequently develop preterm preeclampsia compared with uncomplicated pregnancies. In vitro, galectin-7 impaired human first-trimester trophoblast outgrowth, increased placental production of the antiangiogenic sFlt-1 splice variant, sFlt-1-e15a, and reduced placental production and secretion of ADAM12 (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase12) and angiotensinogen. In vivo, galectin-7 administration (E8-E12) to pregnant mice caused elevated systolic blood pressure, albuminuria, impaired placentation (reduced labyrinth vascular branching, impaired decidual spiral artery remodeling, and a proinflammatory placental state demonstrated by elevated IL1beta, IL6 and reduced IL10), and dysregulated expression of renin-angiotensin system components in the placenta, decidua, and kidney, including angiotensinogen, prorenin, and the angiotensin II type 1 receptor. Collectively, this study demonstrates that elevated galectin-7 during placental formation contributes to abnormal placentation and suggests that it leads to the development of preeclampsia via altering placental production of sFlt-1 and renin-angiotensin system components. Targeting galectin-7 may be a new treatment option for preeclampsia.
PXD017786	32863211	Low-protein/high-carbohydrate diet induces AMPK-dependent canonical and non-canonical thermogenesis in subcutaneous adipose tissue. 	Low-protein/high carbohydrate diet	adipose tissue, diet	Low-protein/high-carbohydrate (LPHC) diet has been suggested to promote metabolic health and longevity in adult humans and animal models. However, the complex molecular underpinnings of how LPHC diet leads to metabolic benefits remain elusive. Through a multi-layered approach, here we observed that LPHC diet promotes an energy-dissipating response consisting in the parallel recruitment of canonical and non-canonical (muscular) thermogenic systems in subcutaneous white adipose tissue (sWAT). In particular, we measured Ucp1 induction in association with up-regulation of actomyosin components and several Serca (Serca1, Serca2a, Serca2b) ATPases. In beige adipocytes, we observed that AMPK activation is responsible for transducing the amino acid lowering in an enhanced fat catabolism, which sustains both Ucp1-and Serca-dependent energy dissipation. Limiting AMPK activation counteracts the expression of brown fat and muscular genes, including Ucp1 and Serca, as well as mitochondrial oxidative genes. We observed that mitochondrial reactive oxygen species are the upstream molecules controlling AMPK-mediated metabolic rewiring in amino acid-restricted beige adipocytes. Our findings delineate a novel metabolic phenotype of responses to amino acid shortage, which recapitulates some of the benefits of cool temperature in sWAT. In conclusion, this highlights LPHC diet as a valuable and practicable strategy to prevent metabolic diseases through the enhancement of mitochondrial oxidative metabolism and the recruitment of different energy dissipating routes in beige adipocytes.
PXD019136	32864161	A bioenergetic shift is required for spermatogonial differentiation. 	A bioenergetic shift is required for spermatogonial differentiation	OXPHOS, glycolysis, spermatogonial differentiation	A bioenergetic balance between glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration is particularly important for stem cell fate specification. It however remains to be determined whether undifferentiated spermatogonia switch their preference for bioenergy production during differentiation. In this study, we found that ATP generation in spermatogonia was gradually increased upon retinoic acid (RA)-induced differentiation. To accommodate this elevated energy demand, RA signaling concomitantly switched ATP production in spermatogonia from glycolysis to mitochondrial respiration, accompanied by increased levels of reactive oxygen species. Disrupting mitochondrial respiration significantly blocked spermatogonial differentiation. Inhibition of glucose conversion to glucose-6-phosphate or pentose phosphate pathway also repressed the formation of c-Kit(+) differentiating germ cells, suggesting that metabolites produced from glycolysis are required for spermatogonial differentiation. We further demonstrated that the expression levels of several metabolic regulators and enzymes were significantly altered upon RA-induced differentiation, with both RNA-seq and quantitative proteomic analyses. Taken together, our data unveil a critically regulated bioenergetic balance between glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration that is required for spermatogonial proliferation and differentiation.
PXD016878	32864787	Resolving the Interactome of the Human Macrophage Immunometabolism Regulator (MACIR) with Enhanced Membrane Protein Preparation and Affinity Proteomics. 	IP C5ORF30 macrophage immunometabolism regulator gene	IP C5ORF30 MACIR Human Rheumatoid Arthritis	Expression of the macrophage immunometabolism regulator gene (MACIR) is associated with severity of autoimmune disease pathology and with the regulation of macrophage biology through unknown mechanisms. The encoded 206 amino acid protein lacks homology to any characterized protein sequence and is a disordered protein according to structure prediction algorithms. To identify interactions of MACIR with proteins from all subcellular compartments, a membrane solubilization buffer is employed, that together with a high affinity EF hand based pull down method, increases the resolution of quantitative mass spectrometry analysis with significant enrichment of interactions from membrane bound nuclear and mitochondrial compartments compared to samples prepared with radioimmunoprecipitation assay buffer. A total of 63 significant interacting proteins are identified and interaction with the nuclear transport receptor TNPO1 and the trafficking proteins UNC119 homolog A and B are validated by immunoprecipitation. Mutational analysis in two candidate nuclear localization signal motifs in the MACIR amino acid sequence shows the interaction with TNPO1 is likely via a non-classical proline/tyrosine-nuclear localization signal motif (aa98-117). It is shown that employing a highly specific and high affinity pull down method that performs efficiently in this glycerol and detergent rich buffer is a powerful approach for the analysis of uncharacterized protein interactomes.
PXD015645	32864800	Global Lysine Crotonylation Profiling of Mouse Liver. 	Global lysine crotonylation profiling in the livers of mice	Crotonylation, Dataset, Liver	Lysine crotonylation (Kcr) is a recently discovered post-translational modification that potentially regulates multiple biological processes. With an objective to expand the available crotonylation datasets, LC-MS/MS is performed using mouse liver samples under normal physiological conditions to obtain in vivo crotonylome. A label-free strategy is used and 10 034 Class I (localization probabilities > 0.75) crotonylated sites are identified in 2245 proteins. The KcrE, KcrD, and EKcr motifs are significantly enriched in the crotonylated peptides. The identified crotonylated proteins are mostly enzymes and primarily located in the cytoplasm and nucleus. Functional enrichment analysis based on Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes shows that the crotonylated proteins are closely related to the purine-containing compound metabolic process, ribose phosphate metabolic process, carbon metabolism pathway, ribosome pathway, and a series of metabolism-associated biological processes. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this research provides the first report on the mouse liver crotonylome. Furthermore, it offers additional evidence that crotonylation exists in non-histone proteins, and is likely involved in various biological processes. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited in the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifiers PXD019145.
PXD019764	32865326	Lowering Sample Requirements to Study Tyrosine Kinase Signaling Using Phosphoproteomics with the TMT Calibrator Approach. 	Lowering Sample Requirements to Study Tyrosine Kinase Signaling using Phosphoproteomics with the TMT Calibrator Approach	Label Free Quantification, Lung Cancer, Phosphotyrosine, Signaling	Analysis of tyrosine kinase signaling is critical for the development of targeted cancer therapy. Currently, immunoprecipitation of phosphotyrosine (pY) peptides prior to liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) is used to profile tyrosine kinase substrates. A typical protocol requests 10 mg of total protein from =~10(8) cells or 50-100 mg of tissue. Large sample requirements can be cost prohibitive or not feasible for certain experiments. Sample multiplexing using chemical labeling reduces the protein amount required for each sample, and newer approaches use a material-rich reference channel as a calibrator to trigger detection and quantification for smaller samples. Here, it is demonstrated that the tandem mass tag (TMT) calibrator approach reduces the sample input for pY profiling tenfold (to =~1 mg total protein per sample from 10(7) cells grown in one plate), while maintaining the depth of pY proteome sampling and the biological content of the experiment. Data are available through PRIDE (PXD019764 for label-free and PXD018952 for TMT). This strategy opens more opportunities for pY profiling of large sample cohorts and samples with limited protein quantity such as immune cells, xenograft models, and human tumors.
PXD018709	32865868	Identification of Antiestrogen-Bound Estrogen Receptor alpha Interactomes in Hormone-Responsive Human Breast Cancer Cell Nuclei. 	Nuclear Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha) interactome following estrogen and antiestrogen treatment.	Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha), Interaction proteomics, estrogen and antiestrogen signaling	Estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) is a ligand-inducible transcription factor which mediates estrogen actions in hormone-responsive tumors and is targeted by effective anticancer therapies based on the ERalpha antagonist ligands, selective estrogen receptor modulators (such as Tamoxifen/TAM) or disruptors (such as Fulvestrant/ICI). Despite its importance for cancer therapy, including acquired resistance to endocrine therapy, the molecular basis of ERalpha response to different ligands is not fully known to date. Interaction proteomics shows great potential to identify and characterize molecular mechanisms of disease based on physical and functional protein-protein interaction networks. Tandem affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry is applied here for mapping in hormone-responsive breast cancer cells nuclei, the ERalpha interactomes, induced by each of the two classes of antiestrogens. The results provide new insights on the molecular bases for antiestrogen-mediated control of ERalpha function and reveal new potential ways to overcome endocrine therapy resistance in cancer.
PXD018255	32865869	The Sperm Proteome of the Oyster Crassostrea hongkongensis. 	The Sperm Proteome of the Oyster Crassostrea hongkongensis	Bivalvia, oyster, sperm proteome	Sperm proteins play vital roles in fertilization, but little is known about their identities in free-spawning marine invertebrates. Here, 286 sperm proteins are reported from the Hong Kong oyster Crassostrea hongkongensis using label-free and semi-quantitative proteomics. Proteins extracted from three sperm samples are separated by SDS-PAGE, analyzed by LC-MS/MS, and identified using Mascot. Functional classification of the sperm proteome reveals energy metabolism (33%), signaling and binding (23%), and protein synthesis and degradation (12%) as the top functional categories. Comparison of orthologous sperm proteins between C. hongkongensis, Crassostrea gigas, Mytilus edulis, and M. galloprovincialis suggests that energy metabolism (48%) is the most conserved functional group. Sequence alignment of the C. hongkongensis bindin, an acrosomal protein that binds the sperm and the egg, with those of three other Crassostrea species, reveals several conserved motifs. The study has enriched the data of invertebrate sperm proteins and may contribute to studies of mechanisms of fertilization in free-spawning invertebrates. The proteomic data are available in ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD018255.
PXD013343	32865986	Simple Targeted Assays for Metabolic Pathways and Signaling: A Powerful Tool for Targeted Proteomics. 	Simple targeted assays for metabolic pathways and signaling: a powerful tool for targeted proteomics	Databases, Proteomic analysis	We introduce STAMPS, a pathway-centric web service for the development of targeted proteomics assays. STAMPS guides the user by providing several intuitive interfaces for a rapid and simplified method design. Applying our curated framework to signaling and metabolic pathways, we reduced the average assay development time by a factor of ~150 and revealed that the insulin signaling is actively controlled by protein abundance changes in insulin-sensitive and -resistance states. Although at the current state STAMPS primarily contains mouse data, it was designed for easy extension with additional organisms.
PXD020161	32866204	Shigella hijacks the exocyst to cluster macropinosomes for efficient vacuolar escape. 	Shigella hijacks the exocyst to cluster macropinosomes for efficient vacuolar escape	Shigella, macropinosomes	Shigella flexneri invades host cells by entering within a bacteria-containing vacuole (BCV). In order to establish its niche in the host cytosol, the bacterium ruptures its BCV. Contacts between S. flexneri BCV and infection-associated macropinosomes (IAMs) formed in situ have been reported to enhance BCV disintegration. The mechanism underlying S. flexneri vacuolar escape remains however obscure. To decipher the molecular mechanism priming the communication between the IAMs and S. flexneri BCV, we performed mass spectrometry-based analysis of the magnetically purified IAMs from S. flexneri-infected cells. While proteins involved in host recycling and exocytic pathways were significantly enriched at the IAMs, we demonstrate more precisely that the S. flexneri type III effector protein IpgD mediates the recruitment of the exocyst to the IAMs through the Rab8/Rab11 pathway. This recruitment results in IAM clustering around S. flexneri BCV. More importantly, we reveal that IAM clustering subsequently facilitates an IAM-mediated unwrapping of the ruptured vacuole membranes from S. flexneri, enabling the naked bacterium to be ready for intercellular spread via actin-based motility. Taken together, our work untangles the molecular cascade of S. flexneri-driven host trafficking subversion at IAMs to develop its cytosolic lifestyle, a crucial step en route for infection progression at cellular and tissue level.
PXD021005	32867335	A Synthetic Cytokinin Improves Photosynthesis in Rice under Drought Stress by Modulating the Abundance of Proteins Related to Stomatal Conductance, Chlorophyll Contents, and Rubisco Activity. 	Rice (Pathumthani1) flag leaf LC-MSMS under cytokinin and drought treatment	Cytokinin, Drought, LCMSMS, Proteins, Rice	Drought susceptible rice cultivar PTT1 (Pathumthani1) was treated with drought (-72 kPa) and CPPU (N-2-(chloro-4-pyridyl)-N-phenyl urea) @ 5 mg/L at tillering and grain-filling stages. Plants were tested for the effect of synthetic cytokinin on the parameters influencing the process of photosynthesis. Exogenous spray of CPPU improved the stomatal conductance of rice leaves, which was severely reduced by drought. The abundance intensities of proteins, associated with the stomatal conductance (ZEP, NCED4, PYL9, PYL10, ABI5, SnRK4, Phot1, and Phot2), were also in agreement with the positive impact of CPPU on the stomatal conductance under drought stress. Among the photosynthetic pigments, Chl b contents were significantly reduced by drought stress, whereas CPPU treated plants retained the normal contents of Chl b under drought stress. Subsequently, we examined the abundance intensities of chlorophyll synthase and HCR proteins, implicated in the biosynthesis of chlorophyll pigments and the conversion of Chl b to Chl a, respectively. The results indicated a drought-mediated suppression of chlorophyll synthase. However, CPPU treated plants retained normal levels of chlorophyll synthase under drought stress. In addition, drought stress induced HCR proteins, which might be the cause for reduced Chl b contents in drought stressed plants. Further, CPPU treatment helped the plants sustain photosynthesis at a normal rate under drought stress, which was comparable with well-watered plants. The results were further confirmed by examining the abundance intensities of two key proteins, RAF1 and Rubisco activase, implicated in the assembly and activation of Rubisco, respectively. CPPU treatment reversed the drought mediated suppression of these proteins at both of the growth stages of rice under drought stress. Based on the results, it can be suggested that synthetic cytokinins help the plants sustain photosynthesis at a normal rate under drought stress by positively influencing the determinants of photosynthesis at a molecular level.
PXD018675	32867497	Highly Multiplex Targeted Proteomics Enabled by Real-Time Chromatographic Alignment. 	Highly Multiplex Targeted Proteomics Enabled by Real-Time Chromatographic Alignment	alignment, parallel reaction monitoring, scheduling, technology development	Targeted mass spectrometry methods produce high-quality quantitative data in terms of limits of detection and dynamic range, at the cost of a substantial compromise in throughput compared to methods such as data independent and data dependent acquisition. The logistical and experimental issues inherent to maintaining assays of even several hundred targets are significant. Prominent among these issues is the drift in analyte retention time as liquid chromatography (LC) columns wear, forcing targeted scheduling windows to be much larger than LC peak widths. If these problems could be solved, proteomics assays would be capable of targeting thousands of peptides in an hour-long experiment, enabling large cohort studies to be performed without sacrificing sensitivity and specificity. We describe a solution in the form of a new method for real-time chromatographic alignment and demonstrate its application to a 56 min LC-gradient HeLa digest assay with 1489 targets. The method is based on the periodic acquisition of untargeted survey scans in a reference experiment and alignment to those scans during subsequent experiments. We describe how the method enables narrower scheduled retention time windows to be used. The narrower scheduling windows enables more targets to be included in the assay or proportionally more time to be allocated to each target, improving the sensitivity. Finally, we point out how the procedure could be improved and how much additional target multiplexing could be gained in the future.
PXD016538	32868372	A Mouse Brain-based Multi-omics Integrative Approach Reveals Potential Blood Biomarkers for Ischemic Stroke. 	Identification of potential ischemic stroke biomarkers through a brain-based multiomics integrative approach in mice	integromics, ischemic brain, stroke, transcriptomics	Stroke remains a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Despite continuous advances, the identification of key molecular signatures in the hyper-acute phase of ischemic stroke is still a primary interest for translational research on stroke diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. Data integration from high-throughput -omics techniques has become crucial to unraveling key interactions among different molecular elements in complex biological contexts, such as ischemic stroke. Thus, we used advanced data integration methods for a multi-level joint analysis of transcriptomics and proteomics data sets obtained from mouse brains at 2 h after cerebral ischemia. By modeling net-like correlation structures, we identified an integrated network of genes and proteins that are differentially expressed at a very early stage after stroke. We validated 10 of these deregulated elements in acute stroke, and changes in their expression pattern over time after cerebral ischemia were described. Of these, CLDN20, GADD45G, RGS2, BAG5, and CTNND2 were next evaluated as blood biomarkers of cerebral ischemia in mice and human blood samples, which were obtained from stroke patients and patients presenting stroke-mimicking conditions. Our findings indicate that CTNND2 levels in blood might potentially be useful for distinguishing ischemic strokes from stroke-mimicking conditions in the hyper-acute phase of the disease. Furthermore, circulating GADD45G content within the first 6 h after stroke could also play a key role in predicting poor outcomes in stroke patients. For the first time, we have used an integrative biostatistical approach to elucidate key molecules in the initial stages of stroke pathophysiology and highlight new notable molecules that might be further considered as blood biomarkers of ischemic stroke.
PXD020428	32868396	Glutathionylation Decreases Methyltransferase Activity of PRMT5 and Inhibits Cell Proliferation. 	Glutathionylation decreases methyltransferase activity of PRMT5 and inhibits cell proliferation	binding affinity, glutathionylation, methyltransferase activity, protein arginine N-methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5), reactive oxygen species (ROS)	Glutathionylation is an important posttranslational modification that protects proteins from further oxidative damage as well as influencing protein structure and activity. In the present study, we demonstrate that the cysteine-42 residue in protein arginine N-methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) is glutathionylated in aged mice or in cells that have been exposed to oxidative stress. Deglutathionylation of this protein is catalyzed by glutaredoxin-1 (Grx1). Using mutagenesis and subsequent biochemical analyses, we show that glutathionylation decreased the binding affinity of PRMT5 with methylosome protein-50 (MEP50) and reduced the methyltransferase activity of PRMT5. Furthermore, overexpression of PRMT5-C42A mutant caused a significant increase in histone methylation in HEK293T and A549 cells and promoted cell growth, whereas overexpression of the PRMT5-C42D mutant, a mimic of glutathionylated PRMT5, inhibited cell proliferation. Taken together, our results demonstrate a new mechanism of regulation of PRMT5 methyltransferases activity and suggest that PRMT5 glutathionylation is partly responsible for reactive oxygen species-mediated cell growth inhibition.
PXD011357	32868839	Akkermansia muciniphila uses human milk oligosaccharides to thrive in the early life conditions in vitro. 	Mucolytic activity of Akkermansia muciniphila enables Human Milk Oligosaccharides degradation.	Akkermansia muciniphila, Fucosyllactose, Human Milk Oligosaccharides, Metaproteomics, Sialyllactose, early life, microbiota	Akkermansia muciniphila is a well-studied anaerobic bacterium specialized in mucus degradation and associated with human health. Because of the structural resemblance of mucus glycans and free human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), we studied the ability of A. muciniphila to utilize human milk oligosaccharides. We found that A. muciniphila was able to grow on human milk and degrade HMOs. Analyses of the proteome of A. muciniphila indicated that key-glycan degrading enzymes were expressed when the bacterium was grown on human milk. Our results display the functionality of the key-glycan degrading enzymes (alpha-L-fucosidases, beta-galactosidases, exo-alpha-sialidases and beta-acetylhexosaminidases) to degrade the HMO-structures 2'-FL, LNT, lactose, and LNT2. The hydrolysation of the host-derived glycan structures allows A. muciniphila to promote syntrophy with other beneficial bacteria, contributing in that way to a microbial ecological network in the gut. Thus, the capacity of A. muciniphila to utilize human milk will enable its survival in the early life intestine and colonization of the mucosal layer in early life, warranting later life mucosal and metabolic health.
PXD021210	32869641	Integrative Metabolic and Proteomic Profiling of the Brainstem in Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats. 	Quantitative TMT proteomics of brainstem in spontaneously hypertensive rats	Brainstem, TMT, quantitative proteome, spontaneously hypertensive rats/SHR rats	The brainstem, the core of the central nervous system, plays a vital role in controlling arterial blood pressure and its elevation of hypertension subtypes, especially essential hypertension. Integrative metabolic and proteomic profiling was performed on the brainstem samples of 11 week old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and age-matched normotensive Wistar rats, using hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography quadrupole/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (HILIC-Q/TOFMS) (PeptideAtlas: PASS01621) and nano-liquid chromatography-high-resolution-MS (nano-LC-high-resolution) combined with quantitative tandem mass tags (ProteomeXchange: PXD021210). The results showed a potentially significant measure of metabolic disorders in the brainstem of SHRs, including purine and pyrimidine metabolism and carnitine and acylcarnitine deficiency. By integrating the differential metabolites (VIP > 1 and p < 0.1) with the differentially expressed proteins (>1.2-fold and p < 0.05), the results revealed aberrant insulin signaling in the brainstem of SHRs, including reduced carnitine and acetylcarnitine; increased arginine; and increased flotillin-1 (FLOT1), hemoglobin subunit alpha-1/2, and hemoglobin subunit beta-2 proteins verified by the parallel reaction monitoring analysis (PeptideAtlas: PASS01622). The aberrant insulin signaling pathway in the brainstem of SHRs might help explain the correlation between essential hypertension and insulin resistance. These findings on the brainstem of SHRs could provide new insights into the dysregulation of the central nervous system in hypertension, especially as it relates to metabolite and protein levels.
PXD016656	32871001	Embryo-Like Features in Developing Bacillus subtilis Biofilms. 	Embryo-like features in developing Bacillus subtilis biofilms	Bacillus subtilis, biofilm, phylostratigraphy, transcriptomics	Correspondence between evolution and development has been discussed for more than two centuries. Recent work reveals that phylogeny-ontogeny correlations are indeed present in developmental transcriptomes of eukaryotic clades with complex multicellularity. Nevertheless, it has been largely ignored that the pervasive presence of phylogeny-ontogeny correlations is a hallmark of development in eukaryotes. This perspective opens a possibility to look for similar parallelisms in biological settings where developmental logic and multicellular complexity are more obscure. For instance, it has been increasingly recognized that multicellular behavior underlies biofilm formation in bacteria. However, it remains unclear whether bacterial biofilm growth shares some basic principles with development in complex eukaryotes. Here we show that the ontogeny of growing Bacillus subtilis biofilms recapitulates phylogeny at the expression level. Using time-resolved transcriptome and proteome profiles, we found that biofilm ontogeny correlates with the evolutionary measures, in a way that evolutionary younger and more diverged genes were increasingly expressed toward later timepoints of biofilm growth. Molecular and morphological signatures also revealed that biofilm growth is highly regulated and organized into discrete ontogenetic stages, analogous to those of eukaryotic embryos. Together, this suggests that biofilm formation in Bacillus is a bona fide developmental process comparable to organismal development in animals, plants, and fungi. Given that most cells on Earth reside in the form of biofilms and that biofilms represent the oldest known fossils, we anticipate that the widely adopted vision of the first life as a single-cell and free-living organism needs rethinking.
PXD019501	32872784	Exploring the Diversity of Cysteine-Rich Natural Product Peptides via MS/MS Fingerprint Ions. 	Exploring the diversity of cysteine-rich natural product peptides via MS/MS fingerprint ions	Cyclotides, Fingerprint Ions, Lagenaria siceraria, Viola communis	Natural product extracts present inherently complex matrices in which the identification of novel bioactive peptide species is challenged by low-abundance masses and significant structural and sequence diversity. Additionally, discovery efforts often result in the re-identification of known compounds, where modifications derived in vivo or during sample handling may obscure true sequence identity. Herein, we identify mass spectral (MS(2)) "fingerprint" ions characteristic of cyclotides, a diverse and biologically active family of botanical cysteine-rich peptides, based on regions of high sequence homology. We couple mass shift analysis with MS(2) spectral fingerprint ions cross referenced with CyBase-a cyclotide database-to discern unique mass species in Viola communis extracts from mass species that are likely already characterized and those with common modifications. The approach is extended to a related class of cysteine-rich peptides, the trypsin inhibitors, using the characterized botanical species Lagenaria siceraria. Coupling the observation of highly abundant MS(2) ions with mass shift analysis, we identify a new set of small, highly disulfide-bound cysteine-rich L. siceraria peptides.
PXD017801	32873641	Molecular insights into the genome dynamics and interactions between core and acquired genomes of Vibrio cholerae. 	Exploiting Dynamics of Genomic Islands to Edit the Genome of Vibrio cholerae and Identify Novel Interactions Between Core and Acquired Genome	DIA, SWATH-MS, Vibrio cholerae	Bacterial species are hosts to horizontally acquired mobile genetic elements (MGEs), which encode virulence, toxin, antimicrobial resistance, and other metabolic functions. The bipartite genome of Vibrio cholerae harbors sporadic and conserved MGEs that contribute in the disease development and survival of the pathogens. For a comprehensive understanding of dynamics of MGEs in the bacterial genome, we engineered the genome of V. cholerae and examined in vitro and in vivo stability of genomic islands (GIs), integrative conjugative elements (ICEs), and prophages. Recombinant vectors carrying the integration module of these GIs, ICE and CTXPhi, helped us to understand the efficiency of integrations of MGEs in the V. cholerae chromosome. We have deleted more than 250 acquired genes from 6 different loci in the V. cholerae chromosome and showed contribution of CTX prophage in the essentiality of SOS response master regulator LexA, which is otherwise not essential for viability in other bacteria, including Escherichia coli In addition, we observed that the core genome-encoded RecA helps CTXPhi to bypass V. cholerae immunity and allow it to replicate in the host bacterium in the presence of similar prophage in the chromosome. Finally, our proteomics analysis reveals the importance of MGEs in modulating the levels of cellular proteome. This study engineered the genome of V. cholerae to remove all of the GIs, ICEs, and prophages and revealed important interactions between core and acquired genomes.
PXD020732	32873710	Lysine acetylation of F-actin decreases tropomyosin-based inhibition of actomyosin activity. 	Lysine acetylation of F-actin decreases tropomyosin-based inhibition of actomyosin activity	actin, in vitro motility, lysine acetylation, myosin, thin filament, tropomyosin	Recent proteomics studies of vertebrate striated muscle have identified lysine acetylation at several sites on actin. Acetylation is a reversible post-translational modification that neutralizes lysine's positive charge. Positively charged residues on actin, particularly Lys(326) and Lys(328), are predicted to form critical electrostatic interactions with tropomyosin (Tpm) that promote its binding to filamentous (F)-actin and bias Tpm to an azimuthal location where it impedes myosin attachment. The troponin (Tn) complex also influences Tpm's position along F-actin as a function of Ca(2+) to regulate exposure of myosin-binding sites and, thus, myosin cross-bridge recruitment and force production. Interestingly, Lys(326) and Lys(328) are among the documented acetylated residues. Using an acetic anhydride-based labeling approach, we showed that excessive, nonspecific actin acetylation did not disrupt characteristic F-actin-Tpm binding. However, it significantly reduced Tpm-mediated inhibition of myosin attachment, as reflected by increased F-actin-Tpm motility that persisted in the presence of Tn and submaximal Ca(2+) Furthermore, decreasing the extent of chemical acetylation, to presumptively target highly reactive Lys(326) and Lys(328), also resulted in less inhibited F-actin-Tpm, implying that modifying only these residues influences Tpm's location and, potentially, thin filament regulation. To unequivocally determine the residue-specific consequences of acetylation on Tn-Tpm-based regulation of actomyosin activity, we assessed the effects of K326Q and K328Q acetyl (Ac)-mimetic actin on Ca(2+)-dependent, in vitro motility parameters of reconstituted thin filaments (RTFs). Incorporation of K328Q actin significantly enhanced Ca(2+) sensitivity of RTF activation relative to control. Together, our findings suggest that actin acetylation, especially Lys(328), modulates muscle contraction via disrupting inhibitory Tpm positioning.
PXD009976	32876061	Structure of a nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase (NPP) from Euphorbia characias latex characterized by small-angle X-ray scattering: clues for the general organization of plant NPPs. 	Nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase from Euphorbia characias latex	Euphorbia characias, MSMS sequencing, Nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase	Little information is available concerning the structural features of nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterases (NPPs) of plant origin and the crystal structures of these proteins have not yet been reported. The aim of this study was to obtain insight into these aspects by carrying out a comparative analysis of the sequences of two different fragments of an NPP from the latex of the Mediterranean shrub Euphorbia characias (ELNPP) and by studying the low-resolution structure of the purified protein in solution by means of small-angle X-ray scattering. This is the first structure of a plant NPP in solution that has been reported to date. It is shown that the ELNPP sequence is highly conserved in many other plant species. Of note, the catalytic domains of these plant NPPs have the same highly conserved PDE-domain organization as mammalian NPPs. Moreover, ELNPP is a dimer in solution and this oligomerization state is likely to be common to other plant enzymes.
PXD018357	32877642	Growth Factor Receptor Signaling Inhibition Prevents SARS-CoV-2 Replication. 	Inhibition of growth factor signaling prevents SARS-CoV-2 replication	COVID-19, Covid-19, Infection, Phospho, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, TMT	SARS-CoV-2 infections are rapidly spreading around the globe. The rapid development of therapies is of major importance. However, our lack of understanding of the molecular processes and host cell signaling events underlying SARS-CoV-2 infection hinders therapy development. We use a SARS-CoV-2 infection system in permissible human cells to study signaling changes by phosphoproteomics. We identify viral protein phosphorylation and define phosphorylation-driven host cell signaling changes upon infection. Growth factor receptor (GFR) signaling and downstream pathways are activated. Drug-protein network analyses revealed GFR signaling as key pathways targetable by approved drugs. The inhibition of GFR downstream signaling by five compounds prevents SARS-CoV-2 replication in cells, assessed by cytopathic effect, viral dsRNA production, and viral RNA release into the supernatant. This study describes host cell signaling events upon SARS-CoV-2 infection and reveals GFR signaling as a central pathway essential for SARS-CoV-2 replication. It provides novel strategies for COVID-19 treatment.
PXD014361	32878939	Increased supraorganization of respiratory complexes is a dynamic multistep remodelling in response to proteostasis stress. 	QUATERNARY AND QUINARY ORGANIZATION OF RESPIRATORY COMPLEX SUBUNITS TO ADAPT PROTEOSTASIS-STRESS	Respiratory complex, Supercomplex, complexome profiling, proteasome inhibition, proteostasis stress	Proteasome-mediated degradation of misfolded proteins prevents aggregation inside and outside mitochondria. But how do cells safeguard the mitochondrial proteome and mitochondrial functions despite increased aggregation during proteasome inactivation? Here, using a novel two-dimensional complexome profiling strategy, we report increased supraorganization of respiratory complexes (RCs) in proteasome-inhibited cells that occurs simultaneously with increased pelletable aggregation of RC subunits inside mitochondria. Complex II (CII) and complex V (CV) subunits are increasingly incorporated into oligomers. Complex I (CI), complex III (CIII) and complex IV (CIV) subunits are engaged in supercomplex formation. We unravel unique quinary states of supercomplexes during early proteostatic stress that exhibit plasticity and inequivalence of constituent RCs. The core stoichiometry of CI and CIII is preserved, whereas the composition of CIV varies. These partially disintegrated supercomplexes remain functionally competent via conformational optimization. Subsequently, increased stepwise integration of RC subunits into holocomplexes and supercomplexes re-establishes steady-state stoichiometry. Overall, the mechanism of increased supraorganization of RCs mimics the cooperative unfolding and folding pathways for protein folding, but is restricted to RCs and is not observed for any other mitochondrial protein complexes.This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD017223	32878984	Mutant thermal proteome profiling for characterization of missense protein variants and their associated phenotypes within the proteome. 	Global proteomics proteasome mutants	TMT, TPP, proteasome	Temperature-sensitive (TS) missense mutants have been foundational for characterization of essential gene function. However, an unbiased approach for analysis of biochemical and biophysical changes in TS missense mutants within the context of their functional proteomes is lacking. We applied MS-based thermal proteome profiling (TPP) to investigate the proteome-wide effects of missense mutations in an application that we refer to as mutant thermal proteome profiling (mTPP). This study characterized global impacts of temperature sensitivity-inducing missense mutations in two different subunits of the 26S proteasome. The majority of alterations identified by RNA-Seq and global proteomics were similar between the mutants, which could suggest that a similar functional disruption is occurring in both missense variants. Results from mTPP, however, provide unique insights into the mechanisms that contribute to the TS phenotype in each mutant, revealing distinct changes that were not obtained using only steady-state transcriptome and proteome analyses. Computationally, multisite lambda-dynamics simulations add clear support for mTPP experimental findings. This work shows that mTPP is a precise approach to measure changes in missense mutant-containing proteomes without the requirement for large amounts of starting material, specific antibodies against proteins of interest, and/or genetic manipulation of the biological system. Although experiments were performed under permissive conditions, mTPP provided insights into the underlying protein stability changes that cause dramatic cellular phenotypes observed at nonpermissive temperatures. Overall, mTPP provides unique mechanistic insights into missense mutation dysfunction and connection of genotype to phenotype in a rapid, nonbiased fashion.
PXD017519	32879376	Palaeoproteomics gives new insight into early southern African pastoralism. 	Palaeoproteomics gives new insight into southern african early pastoralism	Leopard Cave, Namibia, ancient proteins, caprines, domestication, radiocarbon dating, wild antelopes	The advent of domestication is a major step that transformed the subsistence strategies of past human societies. In Africa, domestic caprines (sheep and goat) were introduced in the north-eastern part of the continent from the Near East more than 9000 years ago. However, their diffusion southwards was slow. They are thought to have made their first appearance in the southern part of the continent ca. 2000 years ago, at a few Later Stone Age sites, including Leopard Cave (Erongo region, Namibia), which provided the oldest directly dated remains assigned to sheep or goat on the basis of morphology of bones and teeth. However, similarities in morphology, not only between these two domesticated caprine species, but also between them and the small wild antelopes, raised questions about the morphological species attribution of these remains. Additionally, the high fragmentation of the site's osteological remains makes it difficult to achieve species-level taxonomic identification by comparative anatomy. In this paper, we report molecular species identification of the Leopard Cave remains using palaeoproteomics, a method that uses protein markers in bone and tooth collagen to achieve taxonomic identification of archaeological remains. We also report new direct radiocarbon dates. Wild antelope remains from museum collections were used to enrich the available protein record and propose de novo type I collagen sequences. Our results demonstrate that the remains morphologically described as domesticates actually belong to a wild antelope species and that domestic caprines first appeared at Leopard Cave 1500 years later than previously thought. This study illustrates that the use of palaeoproteomics coupled with direct radiocarbon dates is particularly suited to complement classic zooarchaeological studies, in this case concerning the arrival of the first herding practices in arid environments.
PXD020876	32882865	Deep Learning Neural Network Prediction Method Improves Proteome Profiling of Vascular Sap of Grapevines during Pierce's Disease Development. 	Deep learning neural network prediction method improves proteome profiling of vascular sap of grapevines during Pierces disease development	Pierces Disease, Prosit, apoplast, grapevine, predicted spectral library, quantitative proteomics, secretome, xylem sap	Plant secretome studies highlight the importance of vascular plant defense proteins against pathogens. Studies on Pierce's disease of grapevines caused by the xylem-limited bacterium Xylella fastidiosa (Xf) have detected proteins and pathways associated with its pathobiology. Despite the biological importance of the secreted proteins in the extracellular space to plant survival and development, proteome studies are scarce due to methodological challenges. Prosit, a deep learning neural network prediction method is a powerful tool for improving proteome profiling by data-independent acquisition (DIA). We explored the potential of Prosit's in silico spectral library predictions to improve DIA proteomic analysis of vascular leaf sap from grapevines with Pierce's disease. The combination of DIA and Prosit-predicted libraries increased the total number of identified grapevine proteins from 145 to 360 and Xf proteins from 18 to 90 compared to gas-phase fractionation (GPF) libraries. The new proteins increased the range of molecular weights, assisted in the identification of more exclusive peptides per protein, and increased identification of low-abundance proteins. These improvements allowed identification of new functional pathways associated with cellular responses to oxidative stress, to be investigated further.
PXD008649	32883428	Proteome characterization of Paracoccidioides lutzii conidia by using nanoUPLC-MS(E). 	Proteome characterization of Paracoccidioides lutzii conidia by using label free proteomics	Conidia, Paracoccidioidomycosis, virulence factors	Fungi of the genus Paracoccidioides are the etiological agents of Paracoccidioidomycosis (PCM), the most prevalent mycosis in Latin America. Paracoccidioidomycosis infection is acquired by inhalation of Paracoccidioides conidia, which have first contact with the lungs and can subsequently spread to other organs/tissues. Until now, there have been no proteomic studies focusing on this infectious particle of Paracoccidioides. In order to identify the Paracoccidioides lutzii conidia proteome, conidia were produced and purified. Proteins were characterized by use of the nanoUPLC-MS(E) approach. The strategy allowed us to identify a total of 242 proteins in P. lutzii conidia. In the conidia proteome, proteins were classified in functional categories such as protein synthesis, energy production, metabolism, cellular defense/virulence processes, as well as other processes that can be important for conidia survival. Through this analysis, a pool of ribosomal proteins was identified, which may be important for the initial processes of dimorphic transition. In addition, molecules related to energetic and metabolic processes were identified, suggesting a possible basal metabolism during this form of resistance of the fungus. In addition, adhesins and virulence factors were identified in the P. lutzii conidia proteome. Our results demonstrate the potential role that these molecules can play during early cell-host interaction processes, as well as the way in which these molecules are involved in environmental survival during this form of propagation.
PXD020359	32883836	Reconstitution of autophagosome nucleation defines Atg9 vesicles as seeds for membrane formation. 	Isolation and mass spectrometry analysis of Atg9 vesicles from Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Atg9, autophagy, vesicles	Autophagosomes form de novo in a manner that is incompletely understood. Particularly enigmatic are autophagy-related protein 9 (Atg9)-containing vesicles that are required for autophagy machinery assembly but do not supply the bulk of the autophagosomal membrane. In this study, we reconstituted autophagosome nucleation using recombinant components from yeast. We found that Atg9 proteoliposomes first recruited the phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate kinase complex, followed by Atg21, the Atg2-Atg18 lipid transfer complex, and the E3-like Atg12-Atg5-Atg16 complex, which promoted Atg8 lipidation. Furthermore, we found that Atg2 could transfer lipids for Atg8 lipidation. In selective autophagy, these reactions could potentially be coupled to the cargo via the Atg19-Atg11-Atg9 interactions. We thus propose that Atg9 vesicles form seeds that establish membrane contact sites to initiate lipid transfer from compartments such as the endoplasmic reticulum.
PXD020714	32883982	Comparative quantitative LC-MS/MS analysis of 13 amylase/trypsin inhibitors in ancient and modern Triticum species. 	Comparative quantitative LC-MS/MS analysis of 13 amylase/trypsin inhibitors in ancient and modern Triticum species	Amylase/trypsin inhibitors, einkorn, emmer, non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS), spelt, stable isotope dilution assay, wheat	Amylase/trypsin inhibitors (ATIs) are major wheat allergens and they are also implicated in causing non-celiac gluten sensitivity and worsening other inflammatory conditions. With only few studies on ATI contents in different Triticum species available so far, we developed a targeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method based on stable isotope dilution assays to quantitate the 13 most important ATIs in a well-defined sample set of eight cultivars of common wheat and durum wheat (modern species), as well as spelt, emmer and einkorn (ancient species) grown at three locations in Germany, respectively. Only few ATIs with low contents were detected in einkorn. In contrast, spelt had the highest total ATI contents. Emmer and common wheat had similar total ATI contents, with durum wheat having lower contents than common wheat. Due to the lack of correlation, it was not possible to estimate ATI contents based on crude protein contents. The wheat species had a higher influence on ATI contents than the growing location and the heritability of this trait was high. Despite comparatively low intra-species variability, some cultivars were identified that may be promising candidates for breeding for naturally low ATI contents.
PXD017963	32884030	Deciphering the secretome of leukocyte-platelet rich fibrin: towards a better understanding of its wound healing properties. 	Deciphering the protein secretome of leukocyte-platelet rich fibrin	Leukocyte-platelet rich fibrin (L-PRF), SWATH, secretome, wound healing	Leukocyte-platelet rich fibrin (L-PRF) is extensively used in the dentistry field and other clinical scenarios due to its regeneration properties. The goal of the present study was to depict the L-PRF secretome and how it changes over time. We obtained L-PRF membranes and cultured them in DMEM. The secretome was collected at days 3, 7 and 21. The secretome at day 3 was analysed by LC-MS/MS and differences over time were analysed by Sequential Window Acquisition of all Theoretical Mass Spectra (SWATH). Overall, 705 proteins were identified in the secretome of L-PRF membranes after 3 days of culture, including growth factors (EGF, PDGFA) and proteins related to platelet and neutrophil degranulation. A total of 202 differentially secreted proteins were quantified by SWATH when comparing secretomes at days 3, 7 and 21. Most of them were enriched at day 3 such as MMP9, TSP1 and CO3. On the contrary, fibrinogen and CATS were found down-regulated at day 3. Growth factor and western blotting analysis corroborated the proteomic results. This is the most detailed proteome analysis of the L-PRF secretome to date. Proteins and growth factors identified, and their kinetics, provide novel information to further understand the wound healing properties of L-PRF.
PXD015223	32885592	Comparative proteomic analysis of osteogenic differentiated human adipose tissue and bone marrow-derived stromal cells. 	Comparative intraindividual proteomic analysis of osteogenic differentiated adipose tissue-derived and bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells reveals integrin expression profile as distinctive feature	DIA-based proteomics, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), bone defect, integrin, osteogenic differentiated human stem cells	Mesenchymal stromal cells are promising candidates for regenerative applications upon treatment of bone defects. Bone marrow-derived stromal cells (BMSCs) are limited by yield and donor morbidity but show superior osteogenic capacity compared to adipose-derived stromal cells (ASCs), which are highly abundant and easy to harvest. The underlying reasons for this difference on a proteomic level have not been studied yet. Human ASCs and BMSCs were characterized by FACS analysis and tri-lineage differentiation, followed by an intraindividual comparative proteomic analysis upon osteogenic differentiation. Results of the proteomic analysis were followed by functional pathway analysis. 29 patients were included with a total of 58 specimen analysed. In these, out of 5148 identified proteins 2095 could be quantified in >80% of samples of both cell types, 427 in >80% of ASCs only and 102 in >80% of BMSCs only. 281 proteins were differentially regulated with a fold change of >1.5 of which 204 were higher abundant in BMSCs and 77 in ASCs. Integrin cell surface interactions were the most overrepresented pathway with 5 integrins being among the proteins with highest fold change. Integrin 11a, a known key protein for osteogenesis, could be identified as strongly up-regulated in BMSC confirmed by Western blotting. The integrin expression profile is one of the key distinctive features of osteogenic differentiated BMSCs and ASCs. Thus, they represent a promising target for modifications of ASCs aiming to improve their osteogenic capacity and approximate them to that of BMSCs.
PXD018167	32886756	Novel serine/threonine-O-glycosylation with N-acetylneuraminic acid and 3-deoxy-D-manno-octulosonic acid by bacterial flagellin glycosyltransferases. 	Identification of O-glycosylation sites in Clostridium botulinum and Geobacillus kaustophilus flagellins	Clostridium botulinum, Geobacillus kaustophilus, Gram positive, KDO, LTQ Orbitrap Velos Pro ion-trap mass spectrometer, Maf, Neu5Ac, O-glycosylation, flagellin, nonulosonic acid, sialic acid	Some bacterial flagellins are O-glycosylated on surface-exposed serine/threonine residues with nonulosonic acids such as pseudaminic acid, legionaminic acid and their derivatives by flagellin nonulosonic acid glycosyltransferases, also called motility-associated factors (Maf). We report here two new glycosidic linkages previously unknown in any organism, serine/threonine-O-linked N-acetylneuraminic acid (Ser/Thr-O-Neu5Ac) and serine/threonine-O-linked 3-deoxy-D-manno-octulosonic acid or keto-deoxyoctulosonate (Ser/Thr-O-KDO), both catalyzed by Geobacillus kaustophilus Maf and Clostridium botulinum Maf. We identified these novel glycosidic linkages in recombinant G. kaustophilus and C. botulinum flagellins that were coexpressed with their cognate recombinant Maf protein in Escherichia coli strains producing the appropriate nucleotide sugar glycosyl donor. Our finding that both G. kaustophilus Maf (putative flagellin sialyltransferase) and C. botulinum Maf (putative flagellin legionaminic acid transferase) catalyzed Neu5Ac and KDO transfer on to flagellin indicates that Maf glycosyltransferases display donor substrate promiscuity. Maf glycosyltransferases have the potential to radically expand the scope of neoglycopeptide synthesis and posttranslational protein engineering.
PXD016069	32887355	Proteomic Characterization of the Olfactory Molecular Imbalance in Dementia with Lewy Bodies. 	Olfactory proteomics in Dementia with Lewy bodies	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), brain, olfactory bulb	Olfactory dysfunction is one of the prodromal symptoms in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). However, the molecular pathogenesis associated with decreased smell function remains largely undeciphered. We generated quantitative proteome maps to detect molecular alterations in olfactory bulbs (OB) derived from DLB subjects compared to neurologically intact controls. A total of 3214 olfactory proteins were quantified, and 99 proteins showed significant alterations in DLB cases. Protein interaction networks disrupted in DLB indicated an imbalance in translation and the synaptic vesicle cycle. These alterations were accompanied by alterations in AKT/MAPK/SEK1/p38 MAPK signaling pathways that showed a distinct expression profile across the OB-olfactory tract (OT) axis. Taken together, our data partially reflect the missing links in the biochemical understanding of olfactory dysfunction in DLB.
PXD017906	32887625	Mass spectrometry-based analysis of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded distal cholangiocarcinoma identifies stromal thrombospondin-2 as a potential prognostic marker. 	Proteomic analysis of distal cholangiocarcinoma	Bile duct cancer, PRM, cholangiocarcinoma	BACKGROUND: Distal cholangiocarcinoma is an aggressive malignancy with a dismal prognosis. Diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for distal cholangiocarcinoma are lacking. The aim of the present study was to identify differentially expressed proteins between distal cholangiocarcinoma and normal bile duct samples. METHODS: A workflow utilizing discovery mass spectrometry and verification by parallel reaction monitoring was used to analyze surgically resected formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples from distal cholangiocarcinoma patients and normal bile duct samples. Bioinformatic analysis was used for functional annotation and pathway analysis. Immunohistochemistry was performed to validate the expression of thrombospondin-2 and investigate its association with survival. RESULTS: In the discovery study, a total of 3057 proteins were identified. Eighty-seven proteins were found to be differentially expressed (q < 0.05 and fold change >= 2 or <= 0.5); 31 proteins were upregulated and 56 were downregulated in the distal cholangiocarcinoma samples compared to controls. Bioinformatic analysis revealed an abundance of differentially expressed proteins associated with the tumor reactive stroma. Parallel reaction monitoring verified 28 proteins as upregulated and 18 as downregulated in distal cholangiocarcinoma samples compared to controls. Immunohistochemical validation revealed thrombospondin-2 to be upregulated in distal cholangiocarcinoma epithelial and stromal compartments. In paired lymph node metastases samples, thrombospondin-2 expression was significantly lower; however, stromal thrombospondin-2 expression was still frequent (72%). Stromal thrombospondin-2 was an independent predictor of poor disease-free survival (HR 3.95, 95% CI 1.09-14.3; P = 0.037). CONCLUSION: Several proteins without prior association with distal cholangiocarcinoma biology were identified and verified as differentially expressed between distal cholangiocarcinoma and normal bile duct samples. These proteins can be further evaluated to elucidate their biomarker potential and role in distal cholangiocarcinoma carcinogenesis. Stromal thrombospondin-2 is a potential prognostic marker in distal cholangiocarcinoma.
PXD020097	32887649	Homozygous expression of the myofibrillar myopathy-associated p.W2710X filamin C variant reveals major pathomechanisms of sarcomeric lesion formation. 	Homozygous expression of the myofibrillar myopathy-associated p.W2710X filamin C variant reveals major pathomechanisms of sarcomeric lesion formation	FilaminC, Lasermicrodissection, Myofibrillar Myopathies, Neuromuscular disorders	Filamin C (FLNc) is mainly expressed in striated muscle cells where it localizes to Z-discs, myotendinous junctions and intercalated discs. Recent studies have revealed numerous mutations in the FLNC gene causing familial and sporadic myopathies and cardiomyopathies with marked clinical variability. The most frequent myopathic mutation, p.W2710X, which is associated with myofibrillar myopathy, deletes the carboxy-terminal 16 amino acids from FLNc and abolishes the dimerization property of Ig-like domain 24. We previously characterized "knock-in" mice heterozygous for this mutation (p.W2711X), and have now investigated homozygous mice using protein and mRNA expression analyses, mass spectrometry, and extensive immunolocalization and ultrastructural studies. Although the latter mice display a relatively mild myopathy under normal conditions, our analyses identified major mechanisms causing the pathophysiology of this disease: in comparison to wildtype animals (i) the expression level of FLNc protein is drastically reduced; (ii) mutant FLNc is relocalized from Z-discs to particularly mechanically strained parts of muscle cells, i.e. myotendinous junctions and myofibrillar lesions; (iii) the number of lesions is greatly increased and these lesions lack Bcl2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3) protein; (iv) the expression of heat shock protein beta-7 (HSPB7) is almost completely abolished. These findings indicate grave disturbances of BAG3-dependent and -independent autophagy pathways that are required for efficient lesion repair. In addition, our studies reveal general mechanisms of lesion formation and demonstrate that defective FLNc dimerization via its carboxy-terminal domain does not disturb assembly and basic function of myofibrils. An alternative, more amino-terminally located dimerization site might compensate for that loss. Since filamins function as stress sensors, our data further substantiate that FLNc is important for mechanosensing in the context of Z-disc stabilization and maintenance.
PXD015648	32890403	Genome maintenance functions of a putative Trypanosoma brucei translesion DNA polymerase include telomere association and a role in antigenic variation. 	Genome maintenance functions of Trypanosoma brucei DNA Polymerase N include telomere association and a role in antigenic variation	VSG, trypanosomes	Maintenance of genome integrity is critical to guarantee transfer of an intact genome from parent to offspring during cell division. DNA polymerases (Pols) provide roles in both replication of the genome and the repair of a wide range of lesions. Amongst replicative DNA Pols, translesion DNA Pols play a particular role: replication to bypass DNA damage. All cells express a range of translesion Pols, but little work has examined their function in parasites, including whether the enzymes might contribute to host-parasite interactions. Here, we describe a dual function of one putative translesion Pol in African trypanosomes, which we now name TbPolIE. Previously, we demonstrated that TbPolIE is associated with telomeric sequences and here we show that RNAi-mediated depletion of TbPolIE transcripts results in slowed growth, altered DNA content, changes in cell morphology, and increased sensitivity to DNA damaging agents. We also show that TbPolIE displays pronounced localization at the nuclear periphery, and that its depletion leads to chromosome segregation defects and increased levels of endogenous DNA damage. Finally, we demonstrate that TbPolIE depletion leads to deregulation of telomeric variant surface glycoprotein genes, linking the function of this putative translesion DNA polymerase to host immune evasion by antigenic variation.
PXD020241	32890629	Noncanonical EphA2 Signaling Is a Driver of Tumor-Endothelial Cell Interactions and Metastatic Dissemination in BRAF Inhibitor-Resistant Melanoma. 	Non-canonical EphA2 signaling is a driver of tumor-endothelial cell interactions and metastatic dissemination in BRAF inhibitor resistant melanoma: Phosphoproteomics	BRAF Inhibitor, Drug Resistance, Melanoma, Phosphoproteomics. Ephrin A2	Acquired BRAF/MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase inhibitor resistance in melanoma results in a new transcriptional state associated with an increased risk of metastasis. In this study, we identified noncanonical ephrin receptor (Eph) EphA2 signaling as a driver of the resistance-associated metastatic state. We used mass spectrometry-based proteomic and phenotypic assays to demonstrate that the expression of active noncanonical EphA2-S897E in melanoma cells led to a mesenchymal-to-amoeboid transition driven by Cdc42 activation. The induction of mesenchymal-to-amoeboid transition promoted melanoma cell invasion, survival under shear stress, adhesion to endothelial cells under continuous-flow conditions, increased permeability of endothelial cell monolayers, and stimulated melanoma transendothelial cell migration. In vivo, melanoma cells expressing EphA2-S897E or active Cdc42 showed superior lung retention after tail-vain injection. Analysis of BRAF inhibitor-sensitive and -resistant melanoma cells demonstrated resistance to be associated with a mesenchymal-to-amoeboid transition switch, upregulation of Cdc42 activity, increased invasion, and transendothelial migration. The drug-resistant metastatic state was dependent on histone deacetylase 8 activity. Silencing of histone deacetylase 8 led to the inhibition of EphA2 and protein kinase B phosphorylation, reduced invasion, and impaired melanoma cell-endothelial cell interactions. In summary, we have demonstrated that the metastatic state associated with acquired BRAF inhibitor resistance is dependent on noncanonical EphA2 signaling, leading to increased melanoma-endothelial cell interactions and enhanced tumor dissemination.
PXD020434	32891187	Allosteric Priming of E. coli CheY by the Flagellar Motor Protein FliM. 	Allosteric priming of E. coli CheY by the flagellar motor protein FliM	Atomistic simulation, CheY, Flagellar, FliM, XFMS	Phosphorylation of Escherichia coli CheY protein transduces chemoreceptor stimulation to a highly cooperative flagellar motor response. CheY binds to the N-terminal peptide of the FliM motor protein (FliMN). Constitutively active D13K-Y106W CheY has been an important tool for motor physiology. The crystal structures of CheY and CheY . FliMN with and without D13K-Y106W have shown FliMN-bound CheY contains features of both active and inactive states. We used molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to characterize the CheY conformational landscape accessed by FliMN and D13K-Y106W. Mutual information measures identified the central features of the long-range CheY allosteric network between D57 phosphorylation site and the FliMN interface, namely the closure of the alpha4-beta4 hinge and inward rotation of Y- or W106 with W58. We used hydroxy-radical foot printing with mass spectroscopy (XFMS) to track the solvent accessibility of these and other side chains. The solution XFMS oxidation rate correlated with the solvent-accessible area of the crystal structures. The protection of allosteric relay side chains reported by XFMS confirmed the intermediate conformation of the native CheY . FliMN complex, the inactive state of free D13K-Y106W CheY, and the MD-based network architecture. We extended the MD analysis to determine temporal coupling and energetics during activation. Coupled aromatic residue rotation was a graded rather than a binary switch, with Y- or W106 side-chain burial correlated with increased FliMN affinity. Activation entrained CheY fold stabilization to FliMN affinity. The CheY network could be partitioned into four dynamically coordinated sectors. Residue substitutions mapped to sectors around D57 or the FliMN interface according to phenotype. FliMN increased sector size and interactions. These sectors fused between the substituted K13-W106 residues to organize a tightly packed core and novel surfaces that may bind additional sites to explain the cooperative motor response. The community maps provide a more complete description of CheY priming than proposed thus far.
PXD019240	32891189	Organoids Model Transcriptional Hallmarks of Oncogenic KRAS Activation in Lung Epithelial Progenitor Cells. 	Proteomics/phosphoproteomics of human iPSC derived lung alveolar epithelial type 2 cells with/without dox-induced activation of oncogenic KRAS G12D	Q Exactive HF-X	Mutant KRAS is a common driver in epithelial cancers. Nevertheless, molecular changes occurring early after activation of oncogenic KRAS in epithelial cells remain poorly understood. We compared transcriptional changes at single-cell resolution after KRAS activation in four sample sets. In addition to patient samples and genetically engineered mouse models, we developed organoid systems from primary mouse and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived lung epithelial cells to model early-stage lung adenocarcinoma. In all four settings, alveolar epithelial progenitor (AT2) cells expressing oncogenic KRAS had reduced expression of mature lineage identity genes. These findings demonstrate the utility of our in vitro organoid approaches for uncovering the early consequences of oncogenic KRAS expression. This resource provides an extensive collection of datasets and describes organoid tools to study the transcriptional and proteomic changes that distinguish normal epithelial progenitor cells from early-stage lung cancer, facilitating the search for targets for KRAS-driven tumors.
PXD025813	32891891	Identification and analysis of small proteins and short open reading frame encoded peptides in Hep3B cell. 	Identification and analysis of small proteins and short open reading frame encoded peptides in Hep3B cell	Acetonitrile precipitation, Hep3B cell line, Peptidomic, SEP enrichment, Short open reading frames, sORF-encoded peptides.	The small proteins and short open reading frames encoded peptides (SEPs) are of fundamental importance because of their essential roles in biological processes. However, the annotation or identification of them is challenging, in part owing to the limitation of the traditional genome annotation pipeline and their inherent characteristics of low abundance and low molecular weight. To discover and characterize SEPs in Hep3B cell line, we developed an optimized peptidomic assay by combining different peptide extraction and separation methods. The organic solvent precipitation method in peptidomic showed promotion in the enrichment of low molecular proteins or peptides, and the data clearly showed a beneficial effect from the reduction of sample complexity, resulting in high-quality MS/MS spectra. Furthermore, different strategies exhibited good complementarity in improving the total amount of small proteins and their sequence coverage. In total, 1192 proteins within less than 100 amino acids were identified, including 271 newly discovered SEPs that been annotated in the OpenProt database and 147 SEPs of them encoded from ncRNA or lincRNA. Results in this work provide robust evidence to date that the human proteome is more complicated than previously appreciated, and this will be a benefit to discoveries of proteins without function annotation. SIGNIFICANCE: In this work, methods were optimized to identify SEPs in Hep3B. The organic solvent precipitation presents promotion in enrichment of low molecular proteins or peptides, and the data clearly showed a beneficial effect from the reduction of sample complexity, resulting in high quality MS/MS spectra. Different strategies exhibited good complementarity in improving total amount of small proteins and their sequence coverage. In total, 1192 proteins within less than 100 amino acids were identified, including 271 newly discovered SEPs that been annotated in the OpenProt database and 147 SEPs of them encoded from ncRNA or lincRNA. Furthermore, 22 SEPs generated from the uORF may has potential effect in translation control, and 149 newly identified SEPs have known functional domains or cross-species conservation. Results in this work present robust evidence for the coding potential of the ignored region of human genomes and may provide additional insights into tumor biology.
PXD019880	32892627	Isobaric Matching between Runs and Novel PSM-Level Normalization in MaxQuant Strongly Improve Reporter Ion-Based Quantification. 	Isobaric matching between runs and novel PSM-level normalization in MaxQuant strongly improve reporter ion-based quantification - mouse tissue dataset	isobaric labeling, match between runs, multiplexed quantification, normalization, tandem mass tag	Isobaric labeling has the promise of combining high sample multiplexing with precise quantification. However, normalization issues and the missing value problem of complete n-plexes hamper quantification across more than one n-plex. Here, we introduce two novel algorithms implemented in MaxQuant that substantially improve the data analysis with multiple n-plexes. First, isobaric matching between runs makes use of the three-dimensional MS1 features to transfer identifications from identified to unidentified MS/MS spectra between liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry runs in order to utilize reporter ion intensities in unidentified spectra for quantification. On typical datasets, we observe a significant gain in MS/MS spectra that can be used for quantification. Second, we introduce a novel PSM-level normalization, applicable to data with and without the common reference channel. It is a weighted median-based method, in which the weights reflect the number of ions that were used for fragmentation. On a typical dataset, we observe complete removal of batch effects and dominance of the biological sample grouping after normalization. Furthermore, we provide many novel processing and normalization options in Perseus, the companion software for the downstream analysis of quantitative proteomics results. All novel tools and algorithms are available with the regular MaxQuant and Perseus releases, which are downloadable at http://maxquant.org.
PXD017351	32894293	Histone chaperone FACT represses retrotransposon MERVL and MERVL-derived cryptic promoters. 	Ssrp1 co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry	ESC, Ssrp1, co-immunoprecipitation	Endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) were usually silenced by various histone modifications on histone H3 variants and respective histone chaperones in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). However, it is still unknown whether chaperones of other histones could repress ERVs. Here, we show that H2A/H2B histone chaperone FACT plays a critical role in silencing ERVs and ERV-derived cryptic promoters in ESCs. Loss of FACT component Ssrp1 activated MERVL whereas the re-introduction of Ssrp1 rescued the phenotype. Additionally, Ssrp1 interacted with MERVL and suppressed cryptic transcription of MERVL-fused genes. Remarkably, Ssrp1 interacted with and recruited H2B deubiquitinase Usp7 to Ssrp1 target genes. Suppression of Usp7 caused similar phenotypes as loss of Ssrp1. Furthermore, Usp7 acted by deubiquitinating H2Bub and thereby repressed the expression of MERVL-fused genes. Taken together, our study uncovers a unique mechanism by which FACT complex silences ERVs and ERV-derived cryptic promoters in ESCs.
PXD016043	32894330	Extrinsic immune cell-derived, but not intrinsic oligodendroglial factors contribute to oligodendroglial differentiation block in multiple sclerosis. 	Extrinsic inflammatory, but not intrinsic oligodendroglial factors contribute to oligodendroglial differentiation block in multiple sclerosis	IFNgamma, Induced pluripotent stem cells, oligodendrocytes, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, remyelination	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most frequent demyelinating disease in young adults and despite significant advances in immunotherapy, disease progression still cannot be prevented. Promotion of remyelination, an endogenous repair mechanism resulting in the formation of new myelin sheaths around demyelinated axons, represents a promising new treatment approach. However, remyelination frequently fails in MS lesions, which can in part be attributed to impaired differentiation of oligodendroglial progenitor cells into mature, myelinating oligodendrocytes. The reasons for impaired oligodendroglial differentiation and defective remyelination in MS are currently unknown. To determine whether intrinsic oligodendroglial factors contribute to impaired remyelination in relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS), we compared induced pluripotent stem cell-derived oligodendrocytes (hiOL) from RRMS patients and controls, among them two monozygous twin pairs discordant for MS. We found that hiOL from RRMS patients and controls were virtually indistinguishable with respect to remyelination-associated functions and proteomic composition. However, while analyzing the effect of extrinsic factors we discovered that supernatants of activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) significantly inhibit oligodendroglial differentiation. In particular, we identified CD4(+) T cells as mediators of impaired oligodendroglial differentiation; at least partly due to interferon-gamma secretion. Additionally, we observed that blocked oligodendroglial differentiation induced by PBMC supernatants could not be restored by application of oligodendroglial differentiation promoting drugs, whereas treatment of PBMCs with the immunomodulatory drug teriflunomide prior to supernatant collection partly rescued oligodendroglial differentiation. In summary, these data indicate that the oligodendroglial differentiation block is not due to intrinsic oligodendroglial factors but rather caused by the inflammatory environment in RRMS lesions which underlines the need for drug screening approaches taking the inflammatory environment into account. Combined, these findings may contribute to the development of new remyelination promoting strategies.
PXD020550	32895473	Context dependent effects of ascorbic acid treatment in TET2 mutant myeloid neoplasia. 	Context Dependent Effects of Ascorbic Acid Treatment in TET2 Mutant Myeloid Neoplasia	Ascorbic Acid, HAT, HDAC, Leukemia, Lysine acetylation, MDS, Prevention, Sirtuins, TET2, Therapy	Loss-of-function TET2 mutations (TET2(MT)) are common in myeloid neoplasia. TET2, a DNA dioxygenase, requires 2-oxoglutarate and Fe(II) to oxidize 5-methylcytosine. TET2(MT) thus result in hypermethylation and transcriptional repression. Ascorbic acid (AA) increases dioxygenase activity by facilitating Fe(III)/Fe(II) redox reaction and may alleviate some biological consequences of TET2(MT) by restoring dioxygenase activity. Here, we report the utility of AA in the prevention of TET2(MT) myeloid neoplasia (MN), clarify the mechanistic underpinning of the TET2-AA interactions, and demonstrate that the ability of AA to restore TET2 activity in cells depends on N- and C-terminal lysine acetylation and nature of TET2(MT). Consequently, pharmacologic modulation of acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases may regulate TET dioxygenase-dependent AA effects. Thus, our study highlights the contribution of factors that may enhance or attenuate AA effects on TET2 and provides a rationale for novel therapeutic approaches including combinations of AA with class I/II HDAC inhibitor or sirtuin activators in TET2(MT) leukemia.
PXD018758	32896103	Leveraging Immonium Ions for Targeting Acyl-Lysine Modifications in Proteomic Datasets. 	Leveraging immonium ions for identifying and targeting acyl-lysine modifications in proteomic datasets	3-hydroxypimelylation, BSA, Lysine acetylation, Lysine acylation, Stepped Collision Energy, immonium ion	Acyl modifications vary greatly in terms of elemental composition and site of protein modification. Developing methods to identify acyl modifications more confidently can help to assess the scope of these modifications in large proteomic datasets. The utility of acyl-lysine immonium ions is analyzed for identifying the modifications in proteomic datasets. It is demonstrated that the cyclized immonium ion is a strong indicator of acyl-lysine presence when its rank or relative abundance compared to other ions within a spectrum is considered. Utilizing a stepped collision energy method in a shotgun experiment highlights the immonium ion. By implementing an analysis that accounted for features within each MS(2) spectrum, the method clearly identifies peptides with short chain acyl-lysine modifications from complex lysates. Immonium ions can also be used to validate novel acyl modifications; in this study, the first examples of 3-hydroxylpimelyl-lysine modifications are reported and they are validated using immonium ions. Overall these results solidify the use of the immonium ion as a marker for acyl-lysine modifications in complex proteomic datasets.
PXD017596	32896524	Cranial irradiation impairs juvenile social memory and modulates hippocampal physiology. 	Cranial Irradiation Impairs Juvenile Social Behavior and Modulates Hippocampal Physiology	Irradiation, dendritic spines, hippocampus	Cranial and craniospinal irradiation are the oldest central nervous system prophylaxis treatments considered for pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, survivors of childhood ALL that received cranial radiotherapy are at increased risk for deficits in neurocognitive skills. The continuous and dynamic response of normal tissue after irradiation has been identified as one of the causative factors for cognitive changes after cranial radiation therapy. The aim of our study was to investigate the radiation effects on social behavior and neuronal morphology in the hippocampus of adult mice. Twenty-oneday-old male C57BL/6 mice were irradiated with the small-animal radiation research platform (SARRP). Animals were given a single 10-Gy dose of radiation of X-ray cranial radiation. One month following irradiation, animals underwent behavioral testing in the Three-Chamber Sociability paradigm. Radiation affected social discrimination during the third stage eliciting an inability to discriminate between the familiar and stranger mouse, while sham successfully spent more time exploring the novel stranger. Proteomic analysis revealed dysregulation of metabolic and signaling pathways associated with neurocognitive dysfunction such as mitochondrial dysfunction, Rac 1 signaling, and synaptogenesis signaling. We observed significant decreases in mushroom spine density in the Cornu Ammonis 2 of the hippocampus, which is associated with sociability processing.
PXD016561	32898175	Fasciola hepatica Extracellular Vesicles isolated from excretory-secretory products using a gravity flow method modulate dendritic cell phenotype and activity. 	Characterization of Fasciola heptica extracellular vesicles recovered by gravity flow	Fasciola hepatica, excreted-secreted proteins, extracellular vesicles, gravity flow	Parasite-released extracellular vesicles (EVs) deliver signals to the host immune system that are critical to maintaining the long-term relationship between parasite and host. In the present study, total EVs (FhEVs) released in vitro by adults of the helminth parasite Fasciola hepatica were isolated using a recently described gravity flow method that protects their structural integrity. The FhEVs molecular cargo was defined using proteomic analysis and their surface topology characterised by glycan microarrays. The proteomic analysis identified 618 proteins, 121 of which contained putative N-linked glycosylation sites while 132 proteins contained putative O-linked glycosylation sites. Glycan arrays revealed surface-exposed glycans with a high affinity for mannose-binding lectins indicating the predominance of oligo mannose-rich glycoproteins, as well as other glycans with a high affinity for complex-type N-glycans. When added to bone-marrow derived dendritic cells isolated FhEV induced a novel phenotype that was categorised by the secretion of low levels of TNF, enhanced expression of cell surface markers (CD80, CD86, CD40, OX40L, and SIGNR1) and elevation of intracellular markers (SOCS1 and SOCS3). When FhEV-stimulated BMDCs were introduced into OT-II mice by adoptive transfer, IL-2 secretion from skin draining lymph nodes and spleen cells was inhibited in response to both specific and non-specific antigen stimulation. Immunisation of mice with a suspension of FhEV did not elicit significant immune responses; however, in the presence of alum, FhEVs induced a mixed Th1/Th2 immune response with high antigen specific antibody titres. Thus, we have demonstrated that FhEVs induce a unique phentotype in DC capable of suppressing IL-2 secretion from T-cells. Our studies add to the growing immuno-proteomic database that will be an important source for the discovery of future parasite vaccines and immunotherapeutic biologicals.
PXD017659	32898505	A systematic, label-free method for identifying RNA-associated proteins in vivo provides insights into vertebrate ciliary beating machinery. 	A systematic, label-free method for identifying RNA-associated proteins in vivo provides insights into vertebrate ciliary beating - RNA DIF-FRAC Xenopus laevis Animal Cap explants Replicate 1	RNA DIF-FRAC, Xenopus laevis, animal cap explant, differential fractionation, ribonucleoprotein complex	Cell-type specific RNA-associated proteins are essential for development and homeostasis in animals. Despite a massive recent effort to systematically identify RNA-associated proteins, we currently have few comprehensive rosters of cell-type specific RNA-associated proteins in vertebrate tissues. Here, we demonstrate the feasibility of determining the RNA-associated proteome of a defined vertebrate embryonic tissue using DIF-FRAC, a systematic and universal (i.e., label-free) method. Application of DIF-FRAC to cultured tissue explants of Xenopus mucociliary epithelium identified dozens of known RNA-associated proteins as expected, but also several novel RNA-associated proteins, including proteins related to assembly of the mitotic spindle and regulation of ciliary beating. In particular, we show that the inner dynein arm tether Cfap44 is an RNA-associated protein that localizes not only to axonemes, but also to liquid-like organelles in the cytoplasm called DynAPs. This result led us to discover that DynAPs are generally enriched for RNA. Together, these data provide a useful resource for a deeper understanding of mucociliary epithelia and demonstrate that DIF-FRAC will be broadly applicable for systematic identification of RNA-associated proteins from embryonic tissues.
PXD020817	32898583	Structural Analysis of the Regulatory GAF Domains of cGMP Phosphodiesterase Elucidates the Allosteric Communication Pathway. 	Structural analysis of the regulatory GAF domains of cGMP phosphodiesterase elucidates the allosteric communication pathway	PDE6, allosteric regulation, chemical cross-linking, integrative structural modeling, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, structural biology, x-ray crystallography	Regulation of photoreceptor phosphodiesterase (PDE6) activity is responsible for the speed, sensitivity, and recovery of the photoresponse during visual signaling in vertebrate photoreceptor cells. It is hypothesized that physiological differences in the light responsiveness of rods and cones may result in part from differences in the structure and regulation of the distinct isoforms of rod and cone PDE6. Although rod and cone PDE6 catalytic subunits share a similar domain organization consisting of tandem GAF domains (GAFa and GAFb) and a catalytic domain, cone PDE6 is a homodimer whereas rod PDE6 consists of two homologous catalytic subunits. Here we provide the x-ray crystal structure of cone GAFab regulatory domain solved at 3.3 Aa resolution, in conjunction with chemical cross-linking and mass spectrometric analysis of conformational changes to GAFab induced upon binding of cGMP and the PDE6 inhibitory gamma-subunit (Pgamma). Ligand-induced changes in cross-linked residues implicate multiple conformational changes in the GAFa and GAFb domains in forming an allosteric communication network. Molecular dynamics simulations of cone GAFab revealed differences in conformational dynamics of the two subunits forming the homodimer and allosteric perturbations on cGMP binding. Cross-linking of Pgamma to GAFab in conjunction with solution NMR spectroscopy of isotopically labeled Pgamma identified the central polycationic region of Pgamma interacting with the GAFb domain. These results provide a mechanistic basis for developing allosteric activators of PDE6 with therapeutic implications for halting the progression of several retinal degenerative diseases.
PXD017754	32898700	Technical report: Targeted proteomic analysis reveals enrichment of atypical ubiquitin chains in contractile murine tissues. 	Proteomic Analysis of Ubiquitin Chain Types in Murine Cells and Tissues	Absolute quantification, Murine tissues, Parallel reaction monitoring, Ubiquitin chain-linkage composition	Ubiquitylation is an elaborate post-translational modification involved in all biological processes. Its pleotropic effect is driven by the ability to form complex polyubiquitin chain architectures that can influence biological functions. In this study, we optimised sample preparation and chromatographic separation of Ubiquitin peptides for Absolute Quantification by Parallel Reaction Monitoring (Ub-AQUA-PRM). Using this refined Ub-AQUA-PRM assay, we were able to quantify all ubiquitin chain types in 10-min LC-MS/MS runs. We used this method to determine the ubiquitin chain-linkage composition in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages and different mouse tissues. We could show tissue-specific differences in ubiquitin levels in murine tissues, with polyubiquitin chain types contributing a small proportion to the total pool of ubiquitin. Interestingly, we observed enrichment of atypical (K33) ubiquitin chains in heart and muscle. Our approach enabled high-throughput screening of ubiquitin chain-linkage composition in different murine tissues and highlighted a possible role for atypical ubiquitylation in contractile tissues. SIGNIFICANCE: Large knowledge gaps exist in our understanding of ubiquitin chain-linkage composition in mammalian tissues. Defining this in vivo ubiquitin chain-linkage landscape could reveal the functional importance of different ubiquitin chain types in tissues. In this study, we refined the previously described Ub-AQUA-PRM assay to enable quantification of all ubiquitin chain types in a high-throughput manner. Using this assay, we provided new data on the ubiquitin chain-linkage composition in primary murine macrophages and tissues, and revealed an enrichment of atypical ubiquitin chains in contractile tissues. Our approach should thus enable rapid, high-throughput screening of ubiquitin chain-linkage composition in different sample types, as demonstrated in murine primary cells and tissues.
PXD021081	32899194	Short-Term Mild Temperature-Stress-Induced Alterations in the C. elegans Phosphoproteome. 	Short-term mild temperature-stress-induced alterations in C. elegans phosphoproteome	C. elegans, Phosphoproteomics, lifespan, mild stresses, mild temperature	Exposure to mild early-life stresses can slow down aging, and protein phosphorylation might be an essential regulator in this process. However, the mechanisms of phosphorylation-based signaling networks during mild early-life stress remain elusive. Herein, we systematically analyzed the phosphoproteomes of Caenorhabditis elegans, which were treated with three mild temperatures (15 degreesC, 20 degreesC, and 25 degreesC) in two different short-term groups (10 min and 60 min). By utilizing an iTRAQ-based quantitative phosphoproteomic approach, 18,187 phosphosites from 3330 phosphoproteins were detected in this study. Volcano plots illustrated that the phosphorylation abundance of 374 proteins and 347 proteins, were significantly changed at 15 degreesC and 25 degreesC, respectively. Gene ontology, KEGG pathway and protein-protein interaction network analyses revealed that these phosphoproteins were primarily associated with metabolism, translation, development, and lifespan determination. A motif analysis of kinase substrates suggested that MAPK, CK, and CAMK were most likely involved in the adaption processes. Moreover, 16 and 14 aging-regulated proteins were found to undergo phosphorylation modifications under the mild stresses of 15 degreesC and 25 degreesC, respectively, indicating that these proteins might be important for maintaining long-term health. Further lifespan experiments confirmed that the candidate phosphoproteins, e.g., EGL-27 and XNP-1 modulated longevity at 15 degreesC, 20 degreesC, and 25 degreesC, and they showed increased tolerance to thermal and oxidative stresses. In conclusion, our findings offered data that supports understanding of the phosphorylation mechanisms involved in mild early-life stresses in C. elegans. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021081.
PXD008018	32899982	High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry-Based Approaches for the Detection and Quantification of Peptidase Activity in Plasma. 	Peptidomic Analysis of Hemorrhagic Shock Pig Plasma	hemorrhagic shock, peptidome, pig, plasma	Proteomic technologies have identified 234 peptidases in plasma but little quantitative information about the proteolytic activity has been uncovered. In this study, the substrate profile of plasma proteases was evaluated using two nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS methods. Multiplex substrate profiling by mass spectrometry (MSP-MS) quantifies plasma protease activity in vitro using a global and unbiased library of synthetic peptide reporter substrates, and shotgun peptidomics quantifies protein degradation products that have been generated in vivo by proteases. The two approaches gave complementary results since they both highlight key peptidase activities in plasma including amino- and carboxypeptidases with different substrate specificity profiles. These assays provide a significant advantage over traditional approaches, such as fluorogenic peptide reporter substrates, because they can detect active plasma proteases in a global and unbiased manner, in comparison to detecting select proteases using specific reporter substrates. We discovered that plasma proteins are cleaved by endoproteases and these peptide products are subsequently degraded by amino- and carboxypeptidases. The exopeptidases are more active and stable in plasma and therefore were found to be the most active proteases in the in vitro assay. The protocols presented here set the groundwork for studies to evaluate changes in plasma proteolytic activity in shock.
PXD017580	32900843	Extracellular Matrix Injury of Kidney Allografts in Antibody-Mediated Rejection: A Proteomics Study. 	Proteomics Reveals Extracellular Matrix Injury in the Glomeruli and Tubulointerstitium of Kidney Allografts with Early Antibody-Mediated Rejection	Antibody-mediated rejection, Basement membrane, Biopsy, Cathepsins., Glomerular microvascular endothelial cells, Glomeruli, HLA class-I, Kidney, Laser-capture microdissection, Proximal tubular epithel, Systems Biology, Tubulointerstitium	BACKGROUND: Antibody-mediated rejection (AMR) accounts for >50% of kidney allograft loss. Donor-specific antibodies (DSA) against HLA and non-HLA antigens in the glomeruli and the tubulointerstitium cause AMR while inflammatory cytokines such as TNFalpha trigger graft injury. The mechanisms governing cell-specific injury in AMR remain unclear. METHODS: Unbiased proteomic analysis of laser-captured and microdissected glomeruli and tubulointerstitium was performed on 30 for-cause kidney biopsy specimens with early AMR, acute cellular rejection (ACR), or acute tubular necrosis (ATN). RESULTS: A total of 107 of 2026 glomerular and 112 of 2399 tubulointerstitial proteins was significantly differentially expressed in AMR versus ACR; 112 of 2026 glomerular and 181 of 2399 tubulointerstitial proteins were significantly dysregulated in AMR versus ATN (P<0.05). Basement membrane and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins were significantly decreased in both AMR compartments. Glomerular and tubulointerstitial laminin subunit gamma-1 (LAMC1) expression decreased in AMR, as did glomerular nephrin (NPHS1) and receptor-type tyrosine-phosphatase O (PTPRO). The proteomic analysis revealed upregulated galectin-1, which is an immunomodulatory protein linked to the ECM, in AMR glomeruli. Anti-HLA class I antibodies significantly increased cathepsin-V (CTSV) expression and galectin-1 expression and secretion in human glomerular endothelial cells. CTSV had been predicted to cleave ECM proteins in the AMR glomeruli. Glutathione S-transferase omega-1, an ECM-modifying enzyme, was significantly increased in the AMR tubulointerstitium and in TNFalpha-treated proximal tubular epithelial cells. CONCLUSIONS: Basement membranes are often remodeled in chronic AMR. Proteomic analysis performed on laser-captured and microdissected glomeruli and tubulointerstitium identified early ECM remodeling, which may represent a new therapeutic opportunity.
PXD018242	32901005	Chromatin modifier MTA1 regulates mitotic transition and tumorigenesis by orchestrating mitotic mRNA processing. 	Human colon cancer HCT116 cell LC/MSMS	HCT116, LC/MSMS, colon cancer	Dysregulated alternative splicing (AS) driving carcinogenetic mitosis remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that cancer metastasis-associated antigen 1 (MTA1), a well-known oncogenic chromatin modifier, broadly interacts and co-expresses with RBPs across cancers, contributing to cancerous mitosis-related AS. Using developed fCLIP-seq technology, we show that MTA1 binds abundant transcripts, preferentially at splicing-responsible motifs, influencing the abundance and AS pattern of target transcripts. MTA1 regulates the mRNA level and guides the AS of a series of mitosis regulators. MTA1 deletion abrogated the dynamic AS switches of variants for ATRX and MYBL2 at mitotic stage, which are relevant to mitosis-related tumorigenesis. MTA1 dysfunction causes defective mitotic arrest, leads to aberrant chromosome segregation, and results in chromosomal instability (CIN), eventually contributing to tumorigenesis. Currently, little is known about the RNA splicing during mitosis; here, we uncover that MTA1 binds transcripts and orchestrates dynamic splicing of mitosis regulators in tumorigenesis.
PXD016486	32901059	Silence as a way of niche adaptation: mecC-MRSA with variations in the accessory gene regulator (agr) functionality express kaleidoscopic phenotypes. 	Silence as a way of niche adaptation: mecC-MRSA with variations in the accessory gene regulator (agr) functionality express kaleidoscopic phenotypes	S. aureus, bacteria, mecC-MRSA	Functionality of the accessory gene regulator (agr) quorum sensing system is an important factor promoting either acute or chronic infections by the notorious opportunistic human and veterinary pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Spontaneous alterations of the agr system are known to frequently occur in human healthcare-associated S. aureus lineages. However, data on agr integrity and function are sparse regarding other major clonal lineages. Here we report on the agr system functionality and activity level in mecC-carrying methicillin resistant S. aureus (MRSA) of various animal origins (n = 33) obtained in Europe as well as in closely related human isolates (n = 12). Whole genome analysis assigned all isolates to four clonal complexes (CC) with distinct agr types (CC599 agr I, CC49 agr II, CC130 agr III and CC1943 agr IV). Agr functionality was assessed by a combination of phenotypic assays and proteome analysis. In each CC, isolates with varying agr activity levels were detected, including the presence of completely non-functional variants. Genomic comparison of the agr I-IV encoding regions associated these phenotypic differences with variations in the agrA and agrC genes. The genomic changes were detected independently in divergent lineages, suggesting that agr variation might foster viability and adaptation of emerging MRSA lineages to distinct ecological niches.
PXD015802	32901956	Molecular basis for the bifunctional Uba4-Urm1 sulfur-relay system in tRNA thiolation and ubiquitin-like conjugation. 	Molecular characterization of the eukaryotic Uba4/Urm1 system	Uba4, Urm1, urmylation	The chemical modification of tRNA bases by sulfur is crucial to tune translation and to optimize protein synthesis. In eukaryotes, the ubiquitin-related modifier 1 (Urm1) pathway is responsible for the synthesis of 2-thiolated wobble uridine (U34 ). During the key step of the modification cascade, the E1-like activating enzyme ubiquitin-like protein activator 4 (Uba4) first adenylates and thiocarboxylates the C-terminus of its substrate Urm1. Subsequently, activated thiocarboxylated Urm1 (Urm1-COSH) can serve as a sulfur donor for specific tRNA thiolases or participate in ubiquitin-like conjugation reactions. Structural and mechanistic details of Uba4 and Urm1 have remained elusive but are key to understand the evolutionary branch point between ubiquitin-like proteins (UBL) and sulfur-relay systems. Here, we report the crystal structures of full-length Uba4 and its heterodimeric complex with its substrate Urm1. We show how the two domains of Uba4 orchestrate recognition, binding, and thiocarboxylation of the C-terminus of Urm1. Finally, we uncover how the catalytic domains of Uba4 communicate efficiently during the reaction cycle and identify a mechanism that enables Uba4 to protect itself against self-conjugation with its own product, namely activated Urm1-COSH.
PXD020560	32902006	An Organometallic Gold(I) Bis-N-Heterocyclic Carbene Complex with Multimodal Activity in Ovarian Cancer Cells. 	An organometallic gold(I) bis-N-heterocyclic carbene complex with a multimodal mode of action in ovarian cancer cells	gold complexes  N-heterocyclic carbenes  G-quadruplexes  telomeres  proteomics  cancer	The organometallic Au(I) bis-N-heterocyclic carbene complex [Au(9-methylcaffeine-8-ylidene)2 ](+) (AuTMX2 ) was previously shown to selectively and potently stabilise telomeric DNA G-quadruplex (G4) structures. This study sheds light on the molecular reactivity and mode of action of AuTMX2 in the cellular context using mass spectrometry-based methods, including shotgun proteomics in A2780 ovarian cancer cells. In contrast to other metal-based anticancer agents, this organogold compound is less prone to form coordinative bonds with biological nucleophiles and is expected to exert its drug effects mainly by non-covalent interactions. Global protein expression changes of treated cancer cells revealed a multimodal mode of action of AuTMX2 by alterations in the nucleolus, telomeres, actin stress-fibres and stress-responses, which were further supported by pharmacological assays, fluorescence microscopy and cellular accumulation experiments. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020560.
PXD021263	32902282	Peracylation Coupled with Tandem Mass Spectrometry for Structural Sequencing of Sulfated Glycosaminoglycan Mixtures without Depolymerization. 	Derivatized heparin hexaccharides LC-MS/MS	Glycan, Heparin hexaccharides, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	The structures of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), especially the patterns of modification, are crucial to modulate interactions with various protein targets. It is very challenging to determine the fine structures using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) due in large part to the gas-phase sulfate losses upon collisional activation. Previously, our group reported a method for fine structure analysis that required permethylation of the GAG oligosaccharide. However, uncontrolled depolymerization during the permethylation process due to esterification of uronic acid lowers the reliability of the method to resolve structures of GAGs, especially for larger oligosaccharides. Here, we describe a simplified derivatization method using propionylation and desulfation. The oligosaccharides have all hydroxyl and amine groups protected with propionyl groups and then have sulfate groups removed to generate unprotected hydroxyl and amine groups at all sites that were previously sulfated. This derivatized oligosaccharide generates informative fragments during collision-induced dissociation that resolve the original sulfation patterns. This method is demonstrated to enable accurate determination of sulfation patterns of even the highly sulfated pentasaccharide fondaparinux by MS(2) and MS(3). Using a mixture of dp6 from porcine heparin, we demonstrate that this method allows for structural characterization of complex mixtures, including clear chromatographic separation and sequencing of structural isomers, all at high yields without evidence of depolymerization. This represents a marked improvement in the reliability to structurally characterize GAG oligosaccharides over permethylation-based derivatization schemes.
PXD020008	32902378	CB1-receptor-mediated inhibitory LTD triggers presynaptic remodeling via protein synthesis and ubiquitination. 	CB1 receptor-mediated inhibitory LTD triggers presynaptic remodeling via protein synthesis and ubiquitination	212-2, CB1, Neurons, WIN 55, cannabinoids	Long-lasting forms of postsynaptic plasticity commonly involve protein synthesis-dependent structural changes of dendritic spines. However, the relationship between protein synthesis and presynaptic structural plasticity remains unclear. Here, we investigated structural changes in cannabinoid-receptor 1 (CB1)-mediated long-term depression of inhibitory transmission (iLTD), a form of presynaptic plasticity that involves a protein-synthesis-dependent long-lasting reduction in GABA release. We found that CB1-iLTD in acute rat hippocampal slices was associated with protein synthesis-dependent presynaptic structural changes. Using proteomics, we determined that CB1 activation in hippocampal neurons resulted in increased ribosomal proteins and initiation factors, but decreased levels of proteins involved in regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, such as ARPC2 and WASF1/WAVE1, and presynaptic release. Moreover, while CB1-iLTD increased ubiquitin/proteasome activity, ubiquitination but not proteasomal degradation was critical for structural and functional presynaptic CB1-iLTD. Thus, CB1-iLTD relies on both protein synthesis and ubiquitination to elicit structural changes that underlie long-term reduction of GABA release.
PXD025404	32904601	Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Newly Emerging Coronavirus HCoV-19 Spike Protein and Human ACE2 Reveals Camouflaging Glycans and Unique Post-Translational Modifications. 	MS characterization of SARS-CoV-2 NCP PTM profile	NCP, PTM, SARS-CoV-2, glycosylation	The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has led to worldwide efforts to understand the biological traits of the newly identified human coronavirus (HCoV-19) virus. In this mass spectrometry (MS)-based study, we reveal that out of 21 possible glycosites in the HCoV-19 spike protein (S protein), 20 are completely occupied by N-glycans, predominantly of the oligomannose type. All seven glycosylation sites in human angiotensin I converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) were found to be completely occupied, mainly by complex N-glycans. However, glycosylation did not directly contribute to the binding affinity between HCoV-19 S protein and hACE2. Additional post-translational modification (PTM) was identified, including multiple methylated sites in both proteins and multiple sites with hydroxylproline in hACE2. Refined structural models of HCoV-19 S protein and hACE2 were built by adding N-glycan and PTMs to recently published cryogenic electron microscopy structures. The PTM and glycan maps of HCoV-19 S protein and hACE2 provide additional structural details for studying the mechanisms underlying host attachment and the immune response of HCoV-19, as well as knowledge for developing desperately needed remedies and vaccines.
PXD018160	32907583	Plasma proteins facilitates placental transfer of polystyrene particles. 	Plasma Protein Corona on Polystyrene Nanoparticles Facilitates their Transfer across the Human Placenta	biocorona, dual ex vivo placental perfusion, human placenta, nanoparticle, plasma proteins, polystyrene, transfer	BACKGROUND: Nanoparticles, which are exposed to biological fluids are rapidly interacting with proteins and other biomolecules forming a corona. In addition to dimension, charge and material the distinct protein corona influences the interplay of nanoparticles with tissue barriers. In this study we were focused on the impact of in situ formed human plasma protein corona on the transfer of 80 nm polystyrene nanoparticles (PS-particles) across the human placenta. To study materno-to fetal PS transfer we used the human ex vivo placental perfusion approach, which represents an intact and physiological tissue barrier. To analyze the protein corona of PS particles we performed shotgun proteomics of isolated nanoparticles before and after tissue exposure. RESULTS: Human plasma incubated with PS-particles of 80 nm and subsequent formed protein corona enhanced the transfer across the human placenta compared to PS-corona formed by bovine serum albumin and dextran which served as a control. Quantitative and qualitative changes of plasma proteins determined the changes in PS transfer across the barrier. Based on the analysis of the PS-proteome two candidate proteins, namely human albumin and immunoglobulin G were tested if these proteins may account for the enhanced PS-transfer across the placenta. Interestingly, the protein corona formed by human albumin significantly induced the transfer of PS-particles across the tissue compared to the formed IgG-corona. CONCLUSION: In total we demonstrate the PS corona dynamically and significantly evolves upon crossing the human placenta. Thus, the initial composition of PS particles in the maternal circulation is not predictive for their transfer characteristics and performance once beyond the barrier of the placenta. The precise mechanism of these effects remains to be elucidated but highlights the importance of using well designed biological models when testing nanoparticles for biomedical applications.
PXD013081	32908165	The type VII secretion system protects Staphylococcus aureus against antimicrobial host fatty acids. 	The type VII secretion system protects Staphylococcus aureus against host-specific fatty acids	Staphylococcus aureus, Type VII secretion system, long-chain unsaturated free fatty acids	The Staphylococcus aureus type VII secretion system (T7SS) exports several proteins that are pivotal for bacterial virulence. The mechanisms underlying T7SS-mediated staphylococcal survival during infection nevertheless remain unclear. Here we report that S. aureus lacking T7SS components are more susceptible to host-derived antimicrobial fatty acids. Unsaturated fatty acids such as linoleic acid (LA) elicited an increased inhibition of S. aureus mutants lacking T7SS effectors EsxC, EsxA and EsxB, or the membrane-bound ATPase EssC, compared to the wild-type (WT). T7SS mutants generated in different S. aureus strain backgrounds also displayed an increased sensitivity to LA. Analysis of bacterial membrane lipid profiles revealed that the esxC mutant was less able to incorporate LA into its membrane phospholipids. Although the ability to bind labelled LA did not differ between the WT and mutant strains, LA induced more cell membrane damage in the T7SS mutants compared to the WT. Furthermore, proteomic analyses of WT and mutant cell fractions revealed that, in addition to compromising membranes, T7SS defects induce oxidative stress and hamper their response to LA challenge. Thus, our findings indicate that T7SS contribute to maintaining S. aureus membrane integrity and homeostasis when bacteria encounter antimicrobial fatty acids.
PXD018547	32908168	Greenbug (Schizaphis graminum) herbivory significantly impacts protein and phosphorylation abundance in switchgrass (Panicum virgatum). 	Greenbug (Schizaphis graminum) Herbivory Effect on Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) Proteome	Greenbug, Switchgrass, label-free, shotgun	Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is an important crop for biofuel production but it also serves as host for greenbugs (Schizaphis graminum Rondani; GB). Although transcriptomic studies have been done to infer the molecular mechanisms of plant defense against GB, little is known about the effect of GB infestation on the switchgrass protein expression and phosphorylation regulation. The global response of the switchgrass cultivar Summer proteome and phosphoproteome was monitored by label-free proteomics shotgun in GB-infested and uninfested control plants at 10 days post infestation. Peptides matching a total of 3,594 proteins were identified and 429 were differentially expressed proteins in GB-infested plants relative to uninfested control plants. Among these, 291 and 138 were up and downregulated by GB infestation, respectively. Phosphoproteome analysis identified 310 differentially phosphorylated proteins (DP) from 350 phosphopeptides with a total of 399 phosphorylated sites. These phosphopeptides had more serine phosphorylated residues (79%), compared to threonine phosphorylated sites (21%). Overall, KEGG pathway analysis revealed that GB feeding led to the enriched accumulation of proteins important for biosynthesis of plant defense secondary metabolites and repressed the accumulation of proteins involved in photosynthesis. Interestingly, defense modulators such as terpene synthase, papain-like cysteine protease, serine carboxypeptidase, and lipoxygenase2 were upregulated at the proteome level, corroborating previously published transcriptomic data.
PXD020969	32909738	Nuclear Receptor Chemical Reporter Enables Domain-Specific Analysis of Ligands in Mammalian Cells. 	Nuclear receptor chemical reporter enables domain-specific analysis of ligands in mammalian cells		The characterization of specific metabolite-protein interactions is important in chemical biology and drug discovery. For example, nuclear receptors (NRs) are a family of ligand-activated transcription factors that regulate diverse physiological processes in animals and are key targets for therapeutic development. However, the identification and characterization of physiological ligands for many NRs remains challenging, because of limitations in domain-specific analysis of ligand binding in cells. To address these limitations, we developed a domain-specific covalent chemical reporter for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) and demonstrated its utility to screen and characterize the potency of candidate NR ligands in live cells. These studies demonstrate targeted and domain-specific chemical reporters provide excellent tools to evaluate endogenous and exogenous (diet, microbiota, therapeutics) ligands of PPARs in mammalian cells, as well as additional protein targets for further investigation.
PXD014769	32910134	Intermittent Hypoxia Promotes Functional Neuroprotection from Retinal Ischemia in Untreated First-Generation Offspring: Proteomic Mechanistic Insights. 	Probing the Molecular Phenotype of the Transgenerational Ischemia-Resilient Retina	retina mouse ischemia hypoxia tmt quantitative proteomics	Purpose: Stress can lead to short- or long-term changes in phenotype. Accumulating evidence also supports the transmission of maladaptive phenotypes, induced by adverse stressors, through the germline to manifest in subsequent generations, providing a novel mechanistic basis for the heritability of disease. In the present study in mice, we tested the hypothesis that repeated presentations of a nonharmful conditioning stress, demonstrated previously to protect against retinal ischemia, will also provide ischemic protection in the retinae of their untreated, first-generation (F1) adult offspring. Methods: Swiss-Webster ND4 outbred mice were mated following a 16-week period of brief, every-other-day conditioning exposures to mild systemic hypoxia (repetitive hypoxic conditioning, RHC). Retinae of their 5-month-old F1 progeny were subjected to unilateral ischemia. Scotopic electroretinography quantified postischemic outcomes. The injury-resilient retinal proteome was revealed by quantitative mass spectrometry, and bioinformatic analyses identified the biochemical pathways and networks in which these differentially expressed proteins operate. Results: Significant resilience to injury in both sexes was documented in F1 mice derived from RHC-treated parents, relative to matched F1 adult progeny derived from normoxic control parents. Ischemia-induced increases and decreases in the expression of many visual transduction proteins that are integral to photoreceptor function were abrogated by parental RHC, providing a molecular basis for the observed functional protection. Conclusions: Our proteomic analyses provided mechanistic insights into the molecular manifestation of the inherited, injury-resilient phenotype. To our knowledge, this is the first study in a mammalian model documenting the reprogramming of heritability to promote disease resilience in the next generation.
PXD015081	32910773	The host exosome pathway underpins biogenesis of the human cytomegalovirus virion. 	The host exosome biogenesis pathway is essential for human cytomegalovirus virion assembly and egress	CMV, Human cytomegalovirus, VAMP3, egress, exosome, extracellular vesicle, herpesvirus, viral infection, virion assembly	Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infects over half the world's population, is a leading cause of congenital birth defects, and poses serious risks for immuno-compromised individuals. To expand the molecular knowledge governing virion maturation, we analysed HCMV virions using proteomics, and identified a significant proportion of host exosome constituents. To validate this acquisition, we characterized exosomes released from uninfected cells, and demonstrated that over 99% of the protein cargo was subsequently incorporated into HCMV virions during infection. This suggested a common membrane origin, and utilization of host exosome machinery for virion assembly and egress. Thus, we selected a panel of exosome proteins for knock down, and confirmed that loss of 7/9 caused significantly less HCMV production. Saliently, we report that VAMP3 is essential for viral trafficking and release of infectious progeny, in various HCMV strains and cell types. Therefore, we establish that the host exosome pathway is intrinsic for HCMV maturation, and reveal new host regulators involved in viral trafficking, virion envelopment, and release. Our findings underpin future investigation of host exosome proteins as important modulators of HCMV replication with antiviral potential.
PXD019107	32910906	IgE Effector Mechanisms, in Concert with Mast Cells, Contribute to Acquired Host Defense against Staphylococcusaureus. 	IgE Effector Mechanisms, in Concert with Mast Cells, Contribute to Acquired Host Defense against Staphylococcus aureus	IgE antibodies, bacterial infection, host defense, human allergies, mast cells	Allergies are considered to represent mal-directed type 2 immune responses against mostly innocuous exogenous compounds. Immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies are a characteristic feature of allergies and mediate hypersensitivity against allergens through activation of effector cells, particularly mast cells (MCs). Although the physiological functions of this dangerous branch of immunity have remained enigmatic, recent evidence shows that allergic immune reactions can help to protect against the toxicity of venoms. Because bacteria are a potent alternative source of toxins, we assessed the possible role of allergy-like type 2 immunity in antibacterial host defense. We discovered that the adaptive immune response against Staphylococcus aureus (SA) skin infection substantially improved systemic host defense against secondary SA infections in mice. Moreover, this acquired protection depended on IgE effector mechanisms and MCs. Importantly, our results reveal a previously unknown physiological function of allergic immune responses, IgE antibodies, and MCs in host defense against a pathogenic bacterium.
PXD020777	32912969	Temporal Quantitative Proteomics of mGluR-induced Protein Translation and Phosphorylation in Neurons. 	Temporal quantitative proteomics of mGluR-induced protein translation and phosphorylation in neurons	AMPA receptor, bioorthogonal amino acid tagging, mGluR-LTD, metabolic labeling, phosphoproteomics, protein translation, synaptic plasticity, tandem mass tags	At neuronal synapses, activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1/5) triggers a form of long-term depression (mGluR-LTD) that relies on new protein synthesis and the internalization of AMPA-type glutamate receptors. Dysregulation of these processes has been implicated in the development of mental disorders such as autism spectrum disorders and therefore merit a better understanding on a molecular level. Here, to study mGluR-induced signaling pathways, we integrated quantitative phosphoproteomics with the analyses of newly synthesized proteins via bio-orthogonal amino acids (azidohomoalanine) in a pulsed labeling strategy in cultured hippocampal neurons stimulated with DHPG, a specific agonist for group I mGluRs. We identified several kinases with important roles in DHPG-induced mGluR activation, which we confirmed using small molecule kinase inhibitors. Furthermore, changes in the AMPA receptor endocytosis pathway in both protein synthesis and protein phosphorylation were identified, whereby Intersectin-1 was validated as a novel player in this pathway. This study revealed several new insights into the molecular pathways downstream of group I mGluR activation in hippocampal neurons, and provides a rich resource for further analyses.
PXD018902	32913123	O-Fucosylation of ADAMTSL2 is required for secretion and is impacted by geleophysic dysplasia-causing mutations. 	O-Fucosylation of ADAMTSL2 Thrombospondin Type 1 Repeats is Required for Secretion and is Impacted by Geleophysic Dysplasia-Causing Mutations	ADAMTSL2 O-fucosylation, Geleophysic Dysplasia, TSR glycosylation, Thrombospondin Type 1 Repeats	ADAMTSL2 mutations cause an autosomal recessive connective tissue disorder, geleophysic dysplasia 1 (GPHYSD1), which is characterized by short stature, small hands and feet, and cardiac defects. ADAMTSL2 is a matricellular protein previously shown to interact with latent transforming growth factor-beta binding protein 1 and influence assembly of fibrillin 1 microfibrils. ADAMTSL2 contains seven thrombospondin type-1 repeats (TSRs), six of which contain the consensus sequence for O-fucosylation by protein O-fucosyltransferase 2 (POFUT2). O-fucose-modified TSRs are subsequently elongated to a glucose beta1-3-fucose (GlcFuc) disaccharide by beta1,3-glucosyltransferase (B3GLCT). B3GLCT mutations cause Peters Plus Syndrome (PTRPLS), which is characterized by skeletal defects similar to GPHYSD1. Several ADAMTSL2 TSRs also have consensus sequences for C-mannosylation. Six reported GPHYSD1 mutations occur within the TSRs and two lie near O-fucosylation sites. To investigate the effects of TSR glycosylation on ADAMTSL2 function, we used MS to identify glycan modifications at predicted consensus sequences on mouse ADAMTSL2. We found that most TSRs were modified with the GlcFuc disaccharide at high stoichiometry at O-fucosylation sites and variable mannose stoichiometry at C-mannosylation sites. Loss of ADAMTSL2 secretion in POFUT2(-/-) but not in B3GLCT(-/-) cells suggested that impaired ADAMTSL2 secretion is not responsible for skeletal defects in PTRPLS patients. In contrast, secretion was significantly reduced for ADAMTSL2 carrying GPHYSD1 mutations (S641L in TSR3 and G817R in TSR6), and S641L eliminated O-fucosylation of TSR3. These results provide evidence that abnormalities in GPHYSD1 patients with this mutation are caused by loss of O-fucosylation on TSR3 and impaired ADAMTSL2 secretion.
PXD020133	32913128	CaMKK2 is inactivated by cAMP-PKA signaling and 14-3-3 adaptor proteins. 	CaMKK2 Inactivation by cAMP-PKA Signaling and 14-3-3 Adaptor Proteins	14-3-3 adaptor proteins, Calcium-calmodulin (Ca2+-CaM) dependent protein kinase kinase-2 (CaMKK2), cyclic AMP (cAMP), protein kinase A (PKA)	The calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase-2 (CaMKK2) is a key regulator of cellular and whole-body energy metabolism. It is known to be activated by increases in intracellular Ca(2+), but the mechanisms by which it is inactivated are less clear. CaMKK2 inhibition protects against prostate cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and metabolic derangements induced by a high-fat diet; therefore, elucidating the intracellular mechanisms that inactivate CaMKK2 has important therapeutic implications. Here we show that stimulation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) signaling in cells inactivates CaMKK2 by phosphorylation of three conserved serine residues. PKA-dependent phosphorylation of Ser(495) directly impairs calcium-calmodulin activation, whereas phosphorylation of Ser(100) and Ser(511) mediate recruitment of 14-3-3 adaptor proteins that hold CaMKK2 in the inactivated state by preventing dephosphorylation of phospho-Ser(495) We also report the crystal structure of 14-3-3zeta bound to a synthetic diphosphorylated peptide that reveals how the canonical (Ser(511)) and noncanonical (Ser(100)) 14-3-3 consensus sites on CaMKK2 cooperate to bind 14-3-3 proteins. Our findings provide detailed molecular insights into how cAMP-PKA signaling inactivates CaMKK2 and reveals a pathway to inhibit CaMKK2 with potential for treating human diseases.
PXD018728	32913274	Connectivity mapping of glomerular proteins identifies dimethylaminoparthenolide as a new inhibitor of diabetic kidney disease. 	Connectivity mapping of glomerular proteins identifies dimethylaminoparthenolide as a new inhibitor of diabetic kidney disease	Diabetic kidney disease, nephropathy, quantitative proteomics	While blocking the renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) has been the main therapeutic strategy to control diabetic kidney disease (DKD) for many years, 25-30% of diabetic patients still develop the disease. In the present work we adopted a systems biology strategy to analyze glomerular protein signatures to identify drugs with potential therapeutic properties in DKD acting through a RAAS-independent mechanism. Glomeruli were isolated from wild type and type 1 diabetic (Ins2Akita) mice treated or not with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) ramipril. Ramipril efficiently reduced the urinary albumin/creatine ratio (ACR) of Ins2Akita mice without modifying DKD-associated renal-injuries. Large scale quantitative proteomics was used to identify the DKD-associated glomerular proteins (DKD-GPs) that were ramipril-insensitive (RI-DKD-GPs). The raw data are publicly available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018728. We then applied an in silico drug repurposing approach using a pattern-matching algorithm (Connectivity Mapping) to compare the RI-DKD-GPs's signature with a collection of thousands of transcriptional signatures of bioactive compounds. The sesquiterpene lactone parthenolide was identified as one of the top compounds predicted to reverse the RI-DKD-GPs's signature. Oral treatment of 2 months old Ins2Akita mice with dimethylaminoparthenolide (DMAPT, a water-soluble analogue of parthenolide) for two months at 10 mg/kg/d by gavage significantly reduced urinary ACR. However, in contrast to ramipril, DMAPT also significantly reduced glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis. Using a system biology approach, we identified DMAPT, as a compound with a potential add-on value to standard-of-care ACEi-treatment in DKD.
PXD012024	32915195	Targeting of BCR-ABL1 and IRE1alpha induces synthetic lethality in Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 	Dual targeting of BCR-ABL1 and IRE1alpha is a promising therapeutic strategy in Ph+ ALL	BCR-ABL1, Cell Death, IRE1alpha, MAP Kinase, Ph+ ALL, treatment	BCR-ABL1-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cell survival is dependent on the inositol-requiring enzyme 1 alpha (IRE1alpha) branch of the unfolded protein response. In the current study, we have focused on exploring the efficacy of a simultaneous pharmacological inhibition of BCR-ABL1 and IRE1alpha in Philadelphia-positive (Ph+) ALL using tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) nilotinib and the IRE1alpha inhibitor MKC-8866. The combination of 0.5 microM nilotinib and 30 microM MKC-8866 in Ph+ ALL cell lines led to a synergistic effect on cell viability. To mimic this dual inhibition on a genetic level, pre-B-cells from conditional Xbp1+/fl mice were transduced with a BCR-ABL1 construct and with either tamoxifen-inducible cre or empty vector. Cells showed a significant sensitization to the effect of TKIs after the induction of the heterozygous deletion. Finally, we performed a phosphoproteomic analysis on Ph+ ALL cell lines treated with the combination of nilotinib and MKC-8866 to identify potential targets involved in their synergistic effect. An enhanced activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase alpha (p38alpha MAPK) was identified. In line with this findings, p38 MAPK and, another important endoplasmic reticulum-stress-related kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) were found to mediate the potentiated cytotoxic effect induced by the combination of MKC-8866 and nilotinib since the targeting of p38 MAPK with its specific inhibitor BIRB-796 or JNK with JNK-in-8 hindered the synergistic effect observed upon treatment with nilotinib and MKC-8866. In conclusion, the identified combined action of nilotinib and MKC-8866 might represent a successful therapeutic strategy in high-risk Ph+ ALL.
PXD020467	32916986	Proteomic Approach for Searching for Universal, Tissue-Specific, and Line-Specific Markers of Extracellular Vesicles in Lung and Colorectal Adenocarcinoma Cell Lines. 	Proteomic approach for searching of universal, tissue-specific and line-specific markers of extracellular vesicles in lung and colorectal adenocarcinoma cell lines:extracellular vesicles only	biomarkers, colon cancer, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, lung cancer, mass-spectrometry	Tumor-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes, contain proteins that mirror the molecular landscape of producer cells. Being potentially detectible in biological fluids, EVs are of great interest for the screening of cancer biomarkers. To reveal universal, tissue-specific, and line-specific markers, we performed label-free mass spectrometric profiling of EVs originating from the human colon cancer cell lines Caco-2, HT29, and HCT-116, as well as from the lung cancer cell lines NCI-H23 and A549. A total of 651 proteins was identified in the EV samples using at least two peptides. These proteins were highly enriched in exosome markers. We found 11 universal, eight tissue-specific, and 29 line-specific markers, the levels of which were increased in EVs compared to the whole lysates. The EV proteins were involved in the EGFR, Rap1, integrin, and microRNA signaling associated with metastasis and cancer progression. An EV protein-based assay could be developed as a liquid biopsy tool.
PXD020075	32917881	Nucleoporin TPR is an integral component of the TREX-2 mRNA export pathway. 	Distinct Basket Nucleoporins roles in Nuclear Pore Function and Gene Expression	auxin-inducible degron, nuclear pore complex	Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) are important for cellular functions beyond nucleocytoplasmic trafficking, including genome organization and gene expression. This multi-faceted nature and the slow turnover of NPC components complicates investigations of how individual nucleoporins act in these diverse processes. To address this question, we apply an Auxin-Induced Degron (AID) system to distinguish roles of basket nucleoporins NUP153, NUP50 and TPR. Acute depletion of TPR causes rapid and pronounced changes in transcriptomic profiles. These changes are dissimilar to shifts observed after loss of NUP153 or NUP50, but closely related to changes caused by depletion of mRNA export receptor NXF1 or the GANP subunit of the TRanscription-EXport-2 (TREX-2) mRNA export complex. Moreover, TPR depletion disrupts association of TREX-2 subunits (GANP, PCID2, ENY2) to NPCs and results in abnormal RNA transcription and export. Our findings demonstrate a unique and pivotal role of TPR in gene expression through TREX-2- and/or NXF1-dependent mRNA turnover.
PXD020422	32918898	MEAF6 is essential for cell proliferation and plays a role in the assembly of KAT7 complexes. 	MEAF6 is essential for proliferation and plays a role in the assembly of KAT7 complexes	KAT7, MEAF6, Mouse ES cells	Myst family genes encode lysine acetyltransferases that mainly mediate histone acetylation to control transcription, DNA replication and DNA damage response. They form tetrameric complexes with PHD-finger proteins (Brpfs or Jades) and small non-catalytic subunits Ing4/5 and Meaf6. Although all the components of the complex are well-conserved from yeast to mammals, the function of Meaf6 and its homologs has not been elucidated in any species. Here we revealed the role of Meaf6 utilizing inducible Meaf6 KO ES cells. By elimination of Meaf6, proliferation ceased although histone acetylations were largely unaffected. In the absence of Meaf6, one of the Myst family members Myst2/Kat7 increased the ability to interact with PHD-finger proteins. This study is the first indication of the function of Meaf6, which shows it is not essential for HAT activity but modulates the assembly of the Kat7 complex.
PXD018679	32920643	Solute carrier family 12 member 2 as a proteomic and histological biomarker of dysplasia and neoplasia in ulcerative colitis. 	Solute carrier family 12 member 2 as a proteomic and histological biomarker of dysplasia and neoplasia in ulcerative colitis	colorectal neoplasia, dysplasia associated to inflammation, label-free proteomics	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Ulcerative colitis (UC) patients have a greater risk of developing colorectal cancer through inflammation-dysplasia-carcinoma sequence of transformation. The histopathological diagnosis of dysplasia is therefore of critical clinical relevance, but dysplasia may be difficult to distinguish from inflammatory changes. METHODS: A proteomic pilot study on 5 UC colorectal dysplastic patients highlighted proteins differentially distributed between paired dysplastic, inflammatory and normal tissues. The best candidate marker was selected and immunohistochemistry confirmation was performed on AOM/DSS mouse model lesions, 37 UC dysplasia, 14 UC cancers, 23 longstanding UC, 35 sporadic conventional adenomas, 57 sporadic serrated lesions and 82 sporadic colorectal cancers. RESULTS: Differential proteomics found 11 proteins significantly more abundant in dysplasia compared to inflammation, including Solute carrier family 12 member 2 (SLC12A2) which was confidently identified with 8 specific peptides and was below the limit of quantitation in both inflammatory and normal colon. SLC12A2 immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the discrimination of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions from inflammatory lesions in mice, UC and in sporadic contexts. A specific SLC12A2 staining pattern termed "loss of gradient" reached 89% sensitivity, 95% specificity and 92% accuracy for UC-dysplasia diagnosis together with an inter-observer agreement of 95.24% (multirater kappafree of 0.90; IC95%: 0.78 - 1.00). Such discrimination could not be obtained by Ki67 staining. This specific pattern was also associated with sporadic colorectal adenomas and cancers. CONCLUSIONS: We found a specific SLC12A2 immunohistochemical staining pattern in precancerous and cancerous colonic UC-lesions which could be helpful for diagnosing dysplasia and cancer in UC and non-UC patients.
PXD014314	32920902	Proteomic-based identification of oocyte maturation-related proteins in mouse germinal vesicle oocytes. 	Proteomic-based identification of oocyte maturation-related proteins in mouse GV oocytes	GV oocytes	Oocyte proteins play an important role in oocyte maturation, fertilization and embryonic development. However, the protein composition of mouse germinal vesicle (GV) oocytes is still unclear. Using one-dimensional Sodium Dodecyl Sulphate Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis (1D SDS-PAGE) and Reverse-phase liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (RP-LC-MS/MS), we constructed a protein profile of mouse GV oocytes. First, our proteomics profile identified 1,405 different proteins from 11,000 mouse GV oocytes lacking zona pellucida. Second, with detailed bioinformatics analysis, a group of proteins that play an essential role in oocyte maturation was screened. In addition, the expression and localization of suppressor of G2 allele of skp1(SUGT1, also called SGT1), heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (Hnrpk), Seruin, Cullin1(Clu1) and nuclear distribution protein C (Nudc) in mouse ovaries and early embryos were also captured and investigated in this study. Moreover, the protein profile was submitted to the Proteomics Identifications Database (PRIDE) and is available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD014314. Our research provides valuable resources for the study of oocyte proteins and oocyte maturation and helps to clarify the mechanisms of oocyte maturation.
PXD015158	32923585	Integrator restrains paraspeckles assembly by promoting isoform switching of the lncRNA NEAT1. 	Integrator restraints paraspeckles assembly by promoting the 3'-end processing of the polyadenylated lncRNA NEAT1_1	Integrator, NEAT1, Paraspeckles, alternative 3'-end RNA processing, cancer	RNA 3' end processing provides a source of transcriptome diversification which affects various (patho)-physiological processes. A prime example is the transcript isoform switch that leads to the read-through expression of the long non-coding RNA NEAT1_2, at the expense of the shorter polyadenylated transcript NEAT1_1. NEAT1_2 is required for assembly of paraspeckles (PS), nuclear bodies that protect cancer cells from oncogene-induced replication stress and chemotherapy. Searching for proteins that modulate this event, we identified factors involved in the 3' end processing of polyadenylated RNA and components of the Integrator complex. Perturbation experiments established that, by promoting the cleavage of NEAT1_2, Integrator forces NEAT1_2 to NEAT1_1 isoform switching and, thereby, restrains PS assembly. Consistently, low levels of Integrator subunits correlated with poorer prognosis of cancer patients exposed to chemotherapeutics. Our study establishes that Integrator regulates PS biogenesis and a link between Integrator, cancer biology, and chemosensitivity, which may be exploited therapeutically.
PXD019690	32923630	Neuronal metabolic rewiring promotes resilience to neurodegeneration caused by mitochondrial dysfunction. 	Neuronal metabolic rewiring promotesresilience to neurodegeneration caused by mitochondrial dysfunction	Anaplerosis, Purkinje  neurons, TMT, labe-free, mitofusin 2	Neurodegeneration in mitochondrial disorders is considered irreversible because of limited metabolic plasticity in neurons, yet the cell-autonomous implications of mitochondrial dysfunction for neuronal metabolism in vivo are poorly understood. Here, we profiled the cell-specific proteome of Purkinje neurons undergoing progressive OXPHOS deficiency caused by disrupted mitochondrial fusion dynamics. We found that mitochondrial dysfunction triggers a profound rewiring of the proteomic landscape, culminating in the sequential activation of precise metabolic programs preceding cell death. Unexpectedly, we identified a marked induction of pyruvate carboxylase (PCx) and other anaplerotic enzymes involved in replenishing tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates. Suppression of PCx aggravated oxidative stress and neurodegeneration, showing that anaplerosis is protective in OXPHOS-deficient neurons. Restoration of mitochondrial fusion in end-stage degenerating neurons fully reversed these metabolic hallmarks, thereby preventing cell death. Our findings identify a previously unappreciated pathway conferring resilience to mitochondrial dysfunction and show that neurodegeneration can be reversed even at advanced disease stages.
PXD020233	32924279	A malectin-like receptor kinase regulates cell death and pattern-triggered immunity in soybean. 	IIdentification of GmLMM1-interacting protein in Arabidopsis	GmLMM1, IP-MS, Protoplast, Soybean	Plant cells can sense conserved molecular patterns through pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) and initiate pattern-triggered immunity (PTI). Details of the PTI signaling network are starting to be uncovered in Arabidopsis, but are still poorly understood in other species, including soybean (Glycine max). In this study, we perform a forward genetic screen for autoimmunity-related lesion mimic mutants (lmms) in soybean and identify two allelic mutants, which carry mutations in Glyma.13G054400, encoding a malectin-like receptor kinase (RK). The mutants exhibit enhanced resistance to both bacterial and oomycete pathogens, as well as elevated ROS production upon treatment with the bacterial pattern flg22. Overexpression of GmLMM1 gene in Nicotiana benthamiana severely suppresses flg22-triggered ROS production and oomycete pattern XEG1-induced cell death. We further show that GmLMM1 interacts with the flg22 receptor FLS2 and its co-receptor BAK1 to negatively regulate flg22-induced complex formation between them. Our study identifies an important component in PTI regulation and reveals that GmLMM1 acts as a molecular switch to control an appropriate immune activation, which may also be adapted to other PRR-mediated immune signaling in soybean.
PXD020901	32924495	Peptide-Spectrum Match Validation with Internal Standards (P-VIS): Internally-Controlled Validation of Mass Spectrometry-Based Peptide Identifications. 	P-VIS: internally-controlled validation of mass spectrometry-based peptide identifications	hybrid insulin peptides, immunopeptidomics, immunotherapy, peptide splicing, peptide-spectrum match, peptidomics, post-translational modification, validation	Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry is an increasingly powerful tool for studying proteins in the context of disease. As technological advances in instrumentation and data analysis have enabled deeper profiling of proteomes and peptidomes, the need for a rigorous, standardized approach to validate individual peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs) has emerged. To address this need, we developed a novel and broadly applicable workflow: PSM validation with internal standards (P-VIS). In this approach, the fragmentation spectrum and chromatographic retention time of a peptide within a biological sample are compared with those of a synthetic version of the putative peptide sequence match. Similarity measurements obtained for a panel of internal standard peptides are then used to calculate a prediction interval for valid matches. If the observed degree of similarity between the biological and the synthetic peptide falls within this prediction interval, then the match is considered valid. P-VIS enables systematic and objective assessment of the validity of individual PSMs, providing a measurable degree of confidence when identifying peptides by mass spectrometry.
PXD019459	32926143	Quantitative nascent proteome profiling by dual-pulse labelling with O-propargyl-puromycin and stable isotope-labelled amino acids. 	Quantitative nascent proteome profiling by pulse labeling of O-propargyl-puromycin and stable isotope labeled amino acids	OPP, nascent polypeptide chain, pSILAC, ribosome, translation	Monitoring translational regulation in response to environmental signals is crucial for understanding cellular proteostasis. However, only limited approaches are currently available for quantifying acute changes in protein synthesis induced by stimuli. Recently, a clickable puromycin analogue, O-propargyl-puromycin (OPP), was developed and applied to label the C-termini of nascent polypeptide chains (NPCs). Following affinity purification via a click reaction, OPP allows for a proteomic analysis of NPCs. Despite its advantage, the affinity purification of NPCs using magnetic beads or resins inherently suffers from significant non-specific protein binding, which hinders accurate quantification of the nascent proteins. To address this issue, we employed dual-pulse labelling of NPCs with both OPP and stable isotope-labelled amino acids to distinguish bona fide NPCs from non-specific proteins, thereby enabling the accurate quantitative profiling of NPCs. We applied this method to dissecting translation responses upon transcriptional inhibition and quantified ~3,000 nascent proteins. We found that the translation of a subset of ribosomal proteins (e.g. RPSA, RPLP0) as well as signalling proteins (e.g. BCAR3, EFNA1, DUSP1) was significantly repressed by transcription inhibition. Together, the present method provides an accurate and broadly applicable nascent proteome profiling for many biological applications at the level of translation.
PXD019962	32927110	Proteomic analysis of liver in diet-induced Hyperlipidemic mice under Fructus Rosa roxburghii action. 	Proteomic Analysis of Liver in Diet-induced Hyperlipidemic Mice under Fructus Rosa roxburghii action	Fructus Rosae Roxburghii, TMT proteomic analysis, atherosclerosis, hyperlipidemia	Fructus Rosae Roxburghii (FRR) has been considered as edible and medicinal fruit possessing antiatherosclerotic effect, but the mechanism is still unclear. HLP is material basis for AS formation. Under FRR action, TC, TG, LDL, HDL and ASI in serum were regulated to control level. Differentially expressed proteins in liver were analyzed by using TMT labeling and LC-MS/MS for better understanding the effect and molecular mechanism of FRR on diet-induced hyperlipidemic mice. In total, 4460 proteins were quantified, of which 469 proteins showed dramatic changes between each group. According to molecular functions, 25 differentially co-expressed proteins were divided into five categories: substance metabolism, energy transformation and signal transduction, transcription and translation, immune defense. 15 key proteins involved lipids metabolism, which were identified as Cyp7a1, Cyp3a11, Tm7sf2, COAT2, CSAD, RBP3, Lpin1, Dhrs4, Aldh1b1, GK, Acot 4, TSC22D1, PGFS, EHs, GSTM1. This suggested that FRR could maintain metabolic homeostasis by regulating the metabolism of fatty acids, biosynthesis of BAs and steroids, and production of LPOs. 20 oxidative lipids further confirmed their importance regulating lipids metabolism. It's first time potential antiatherosclerotic mechanism of FRR regulating blood lipids was explored from protein level, which is of great significance to explore new drug targets for AS. SIGNIFICANCE: Under the action of FRR juice, the blood lipids in mice were regulated to control level. By TMT proteomic analysis, the effect and molecular mechanism of FRR on diet-induced hyperlipidemic mice were further explored. 25 differentially co-expressed proteins obtained in three diet groups might cooperatively regulate the lipids metabolism and hepatic function of mice, thus maintaining the metabolism homeostasis. By lipidomics analysis, 20 oxidative lipids further confirmed the importance of omega-3 and omega-6 PUFAs in regulating the lipids metabolism. These findings provide an improved understanding for the regulation of FRR on the blood lipids and explores potential metabolic targets for AS prevention.
PXD020639	32928959	The Ig-like domain of Punctin/MADD-4 is the primary determinant for interaction with the ectodomain of neuroligin NLG-1. 	The Ig-like domain of Punctin/MADD-4 is the primary determinant for interaction with the ectodomain of neuroligin NLG-1	ADAMTS-like, GABA receptor, Punctin/MADD-4, muscle, neuroligin, neuromuscular junction, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, postsynaptic membrane, protein-protein interaction, synapse	Punctin/MADD-4, a member of the ADAMTSL extracellular matrix protein family, was identified as an anterograde synaptic organizer in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. At GABAergic neuromuscular junctions, the short isoform MADD-4B binds the ectodomain of neuroligin NLG-1, itself a postsynaptic organizer of inhibitory synapses. To identify the molecular bases of their partnership, we generated recombinant forms of the two proteins and carried out a comprehensive biochemical and biophysical study of their interaction, complemented by an in vivo localization study. We show that spontaneous proteolysis of MADD-4B first generates a shorter N-MADD-4B form, which comprises four thrombospondin (TSP) domains and one Ig-like domain and binds NLG-1. A second processing event eliminates the C-terminal Ig-like domain along with the ability of N-MADD-4B to bind NLG-1. These data identify the Ig-like domain as the primary determinant for N-MADD-4B interaction with NLG-1 in vitro We further demonstrate in vivo that this Ig-like domain is essential, albeit not sufficient per se, for efficient recruitment of GABAA receptors at GABAergic synapses in C. elegans The interaction of N-MADD-4B with NLG-1 is also disrupted by heparin, used as a surrogate for the extracellular matrix component, heparan sulfate. High-affinity binding of heparin/heparan sulfate to the Ig-like domain may proceed from surface charge complementarity, as suggested by homology three-dimensional modeling. These data point to N-MADD-4B processing and cell-surface proteoglycan binding as two possible mechanisms to regulate the interaction between MADD-4B and NLG-1 at GABAergic synapses.
PXD018174	32929035	Regulation of titin-based cardiac stiffness by unfolded domain oxidation (UnDOx). 	Regulation of titin-based cardiac stiffness by unfolded domain oxidation (UnDOx)	Titin, heart muscle, redox proteomics, skeletal muscle, thiol oxidation	The relationship between oxidative stress and cardiac stiffness is thought to involve modifications to the giant muscle protein titin, which in turn can determine the progression of heart disease. In vitro studies have shown that S-glutathionylation and disulfide bonding of titin fragments could alter the elastic properties of titin; however, whether and where titin becomes oxidized in vivo is less certain. Here we demonstrate, using multiple models of oxidative stress in conjunction with mechanical loading, that immunoglobulin domains preferentially from the distal titin spring region become oxidized in vivo through the mechanism of unfolded domain oxidation (UnDOx). Via oxidation type-specific modification of titin, UnDOx modulates human cardiomyocyte passive force bidirectionally. UnDOx also enhances titin phosphorylation and, importantly, promotes nonconstitutive folding and aggregation of unfolded domains. We propose a mechanism whereby UnDOx enables the controlled homotypic interactions within the distal titin spring to stabilize this segment and regulate myocardial passive stiffness.
PXD017007	32929206	Proteome specialization of anaerobic fungi during ruminal degradation of recalcitrant plant fiber. 	Proteome specialization of anaerobic fungi during ruminal degradation of recalcitrant plant fiber	Anerobic Rumen Fungi, Metaproteome, Rumen Microbiome	The rumen harbors a complex microbial mixture of archaea, bacteria, protozoa, and fungi that efficiently breakdown plant biomass and its complex dietary carbohydrates into soluble sugars that can be fermented and subsequently converted into metabolites and nutrients utilized by the host animal. While rumen bacterial populations have been well documented, only a fraction of the rumen eukarya are taxonomically and functionally characterized, despite the recognition that they contribute to the cellulolytic phenotype of the rumen microbiota. To investigate how anaerobic fungi actively engage in digestion of recalcitrant fiber that is resistant to degradation, we resolved genome-centric metaproteome and metatranscriptome datasets generated from switchgrass samples incubated for 48 h in nylon bags within the rumen of cannulated dairy cows. Across a gene catalog covering anaerobic rumen bacteria, fungi and viruses, a significant portion of the detected proteins originated from fungal populations. Intriguingly, the carbohydrate-active enzyme (CAZyme) profile suggested a domain-specific functional specialization, with bacterial populations primarily engaged in the degradation of hemicelluloses, whereas fungi were inferred to target recalcitrant cellulose structures via the detection of a number of endo- and exo-acting enzymes belonging to the glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 5, 6, 8, and 48. Notably, members of the GH48 family were amongst the highest abundant CAZymes and detected representatives from this family also included dockerin domains that are associated with fungal cellulosomes. A eukaryote-selected metatranscriptome further reinforced the contribution of uncultured fungi in the ruminal degradation of recalcitrant fibers. These findings elucidate the intricate networks of in situ recalcitrant fiber deconstruction, and importantly, suggest that the anaerobic rumen fungi contribute a specific set of CAZymes that complement the enzyme repertoire provided by the specialized plant cell wall degrading rumen bacteria.
PXD020418	32929862	Exploring GPCR-arrestin interfaces with genetically encoded crosslinkers. 	Exploring GPCR-arrestin interfaces with genetically encoded crosslinkers	beta-arrestins / genetically encoded crosslinkers / G protein-coupled receptor / GPCR-arrestin complexes / live cells	beta-arrestins (betaarr1 and betaarr2) are ubiquitous regulators of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling. Available data suggest that beta-arrestins dock to different receptors in different ways. However, the structural characterization of GPCR-arrestin complexes is challenging and alternative approaches to study GPCR-arrestin complexes are needed. Here, starting from the finger loop as a major site for the interaction of arrestins with GPCRs, we genetically incorporate non-canonical amino acids for photo- and chemical crosslinking into betaarr1 and betaarr2 and explore binding topologies to GPCRs forming either stable or transient complexes with arrestins: the vasopressin receptor 2 (rhodopsin-like), the corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1, and the parathyroid hormone receptor 1 (both secretin-like). We show that each receptor leaves a unique footprint on arrestins, whereas the two beta-arrestins yield quite similar crosslinking patterns. Furthermore, we show that the method allows defining the orientation of arrestin with respect to the GPCR. Finally, we provide direct evidence for the formation of arrestin oligomers in the cell.
PXD019247	32929970	Optimization of a Top-Down Proteomics Platform for Closely Related Pathogenic Bacterial Discrimination. 	Optimization of a Top-Down Proteomics Platform for Closely-Related Pathogenic Bacteria Discrimination	Bacteria, Optimization, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Top-Down Proteomics	The current technique used for microbial identification in hospitals is matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). However, it suffers from important limitations, in particular, for closely related species or when the database used for the identification lacks the appropriate reference. In this work, we set up a liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS top-down proteomics platform, which aims at discriminating closely related pathogenic bacteria through the identification of specific proteoforms. Using Escherichia coli as a model, all steps of the workflow were optimized: protein extraction, on-line LC separation, MS method, and data analysis. Using optimized parameters, about 220 proteins, corresponding to more than 500 proteoforms, could be identified in a single run. We then used this platform for the discrimination of enterobacterial pathogens undistinguishable by MALDI-TOF, although leading to very different clinical outcomes. For each pathogen, we identified specific proteoforms that could potentially be used as biomarkers. We also improved the characterization of poorly described bacterial strains. Our results highlight the advantage of addressing proteoforms rather than peptides for accurate bacterial characterization and qualify top-down proteomics as a promising tool in clinical microbiology. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD019247.
PXD020106	32932765	Proteomic Profiles of Exosomes of Septic Patients Presenting to the Emergency Department Compared to Healthy Controls. 	Proteomic Profiles of Exosomes of Septic Patients Presenting to the Emergency Department Compared to Healthy Controls	Emergency Department, Exosomes, Proteomic Profiles, Sepsis	BACKGROUND: Septic Emergency Department (ED) patients provide a unique opportunity to investigate early sepsis. Recent work focuses on exosomes, nanoparticle-sized lipid vesicles (30-130 nm) that are released into the bloodstream to transfer its contents (RNA, miRNA, DNA, protein) to other cells. Little is known about how early changes related to exosomes may contribute to the dysregulated inflammatory septic response that leads to multi-organ dysfunction. We aimed to evaluate proteomic profiles of plasma derived exosomes obtained from septic ED patients and healthy controls. METHODS: This is a prospective observational pilot study evaluating a plasma proteomic exosome profile at an urban tertiary care hospital ED using a single venipuncture blood draw, collecting 40 cc Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) blood. MEASUREMENTS: We recruited seven patients in the ED within 6 h of their presentation and five healthy controls. Plasma exosomes were isolated using the Invitrogen Total Exosome Isolation Kit. Exosome proteomic profiles were analyzed using fusion mass spectroscopy and Proteome Discoverer. Principal component analysis (PCA) and differential expression analysis (DEA) for sepsis versus control was performed. RESULTS: PCA of 261 proteins demonstrated septic patients and healthy controls were distributed in two groups. DEA revealed that 62 (23.8%) proteins differed between the exosomes of septic patients and healthy controls, p-value < 0.05. Adjustments using the False Discovery Rate (FDR) showed 23 proteins remained significantly different (FDR < 0.05) between sepsis and controls. Septic patients and controls were classified into two distinct groups by hierarchical clustering using the 62 nominally DE proteins. After adjustment multiple comparisons, three acute phase proteins remained significantly different between patients and controls: Serum amyloid A-1, C-reactive protein and Serum Amyloid A-2. Inflammatory response proteins immunoglobulin heavy constant Delta and Fc-fragment of IgG binding protein were increased. CONCLUSION: Exosome proteomic profiles of septic ED patients differ from their healthy counterparts with regard to acute phase response and inflammation.
PXD006213	32933557	Systematic genetic and proteomic screens during gametogenesis identify H2BK34 methylation as an evolutionary conserved meiotic mark. 	Systematic genetic and proteomic screens identify yeast H2BK37 and mammalian H2BK34 methylation as an evolutionary conserved meiotic mark	Histone, meiosis, methylation, spermatogenesis, sporulation	BACKGROUND: Gametes are highly differentiated cells specialized to carry and protect the parental genetic information. During male germ cell maturation, histone proteins undergo distinct changes that result in a highly compacted chromatin organization. Technical difficulties exclude comprehensive analysis of precise histone mutations during mammalian spermatogenesis. The model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae possesses a differentiation pathway termed sporulation which exhibits striking similarities to mammalian spermatogenesis. This study took advantage of this yeast pathway to first perform systematic mutational and proteomics screens on histones, revealing amino acid residues which are essential for the formation of spores. METHODS: A systematic mutational screen has been performed on the histones H2A and H2B, generating ~ 250 mutants using two genetic backgrounds and assessing their ability to form spores. In addition, histones were purified at key stages of sporulation and post-translational modifications analyzed by mass spectrometry. RESULTS: The mutation of 75 H2A H2B residues affected sporulation, many of which were localized to the nucleosome lateral surface. The use of different genetic backgrounds confirmed the importance of many of the residues, as 48% of yeast histone mutants exhibited impaired formation of spores in both genetic backgrounds. Extensive proteomic analysis identified 67 unique post-translational modifications during sporulation, 27 of which were previously unreported in yeast. Furthermore, 33 modifications are located on residues that were found to be essential for efficient sporulation in our genetic mutation screens. The quantitative analysis of these modifications revealed a massive deacetylation of all core histones during the pre-meiotic phase and a close interplay between H4 acetylation and methylation during yeast sporulation. Methylation of H2BK37 was also identified as a new histone marker of meiosis and the mouse paralog, H2BK34, was also enriched for methylation during meiosis in the testes, establishing conservation during mammalian spermatogenesis. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that a combination of genetic and proteomic approaches applied to yeast sporulation can reveal new aspects of chromatin signaling pathways during mammalian spermatogenesis.
PXD018053	32935914	Diabetic nephropathy associates with deregulation of enzymes involved in kidney sulphur metabolism. 	Mouse early diabetic nephropathy LC-MS/MS analysis	Diabetes, kidney	Nephropathy is a major chronic complication of diabetes. A crucial role in renal pathophysiology is played by hydrogen sulphide (H2 S) that is produced excessively by the kidney; however, the data regarding H2 S bioavailability are inconsistent. We hypothesize that early type 1 diabetes (T1D) increases H2 S production by a mechanism involving hyperglycaemia-induced alterations in sulphur metabolism. Plasma and kidney tissue collected from T1D double transgenic mice were subjected to mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis, and the results were validated by immunological and gene expression assays.T1D mice exhibited a high concentration of H2 S in the plasma and kidney tissue and histological, showed signs of subtle kidney fibrosis, characteristic for early renal disease. The shotgun proteomic analyses disclosed that the level of enzymes implicated in sulphate activation modulators, H2 S-oxidation and H2 S-production were significantly affected (ie 6 up-regulated and 4 down-regulated). Gene expression results corroborated well with the proteomic data. Dysregulation of H2 S enzymes underly the changes occurring in H2 S production, which in turn could play a key role in the initiation of renal disease. The new findings lead to a novel target in the therapy of diabetic nephropathy. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018053.
PXD017697	32937131	Extensive SUMO Modification of Repressive Chromatin Factors Distinguishes Pluripotent from Somatic Cells. 	Extensive protein group SUMO modification of repressive chromatin factors distinguishes pluripotent from somatic cells	ESC, MEF, SUMO, chromatin, endogenous, pluripotent, somatic, stem cells	Post-translational modification by SUMO is a key regulator of cell identity. In mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), SUMO impedes reprogramming to pluripotency, while in embryonic stem cells (ESCs), it represses the emergence of totipotent-like cells, suggesting that SUMO targets distinct substrates to preserve somatic and pluripotent states. Using MS-based proteomics, we show that the composition of endogenous SUMOylomes differs dramatically between MEFs and ESCs. In MEFs, SUMO2/3 targets proteins associated with canonical SUMO functions, such as splicing, and transcriptional regulators driving somatic enhancer selection. In contrast, in ESCs, SUMO2/3 primarily modifies highly interconnected repressive chromatin complexes, thereby preventing chromatin opening and transitioning to totipotent-like states. We also characterize several SUMO-modified pluripotency factors and show that SUMOylation of Dppa2 and Dppa4 impedes the conversion to 2-cell-embryo-like states. Altogether, we propose that rewiring the repertoire of SUMO target networks is a major driver of cell fate decision during embryonic development.
PXD017807	32937373	DELTEX2 C-terminal domain recognizes and recruits ADP-ribosylated proteins for ubiquitination. 	DELTEX2 C-terminal domain recruits ADP-ribosylated DNA damage repair proteins for ubiquitination.	DNA damage, DTX, Deltex C-terminal domain, PAR-binding domain, PARylation-dependent ubiquitination	Cross-talk between ubiquitination and ADP-ribosylation regulates spatiotemporal recruitment of key players in many signaling pathways. The DELTEX family ubiquitin ligases (DTX1 to DTX4 and DTX3L) are characterized by a RING domain followed by a C-terminal domain (DTC) of hitherto unknown function. Here, we use two label-free mass spectrometry techniques to investigate the interactome and ubiquitinated substrates of human DTX2 and identify a large proportion of proteins associated with the DNA damage repair pathway. We show that DTX2-catalyzed ubiquitination of these interacting proteins requires PARP1/2-mediated ADP-ribosylation and depends on the DTC domain. Using a combination of structural, biochemical, and cell-based techniques, we show that the DTX2 DTC domain harbors an ADP-ribose-binding pocket and recruits poly-ADP-ribose (PAR)-modified proteins for ubiquitination. This PAR-binding property of DTC domain is conserved across the DELTEX family E3s. These findings uncover a new ADP-ribose-binding domain that facilitates PAR-dependent ubiquitination.
PXD014397	32938616	Spliced Peptides and Cytokine-Driven Changes in the Immunopeptidome of Melanoma. 	Melanoma spliced and linear HLA-I peptides	HLA peptides, Melanoma, Spliced peptides	Antigen recognition by CD8(+) T cells is governed by the pool of peptide antigens presented on the cell surface in the context of HLA class I complexes. Studies have shown not only a high degree of plasticity in the immunopeptidome, but also that a considerable fraction of all presented peptides is generated through proteasome-mediated splicing of noncontiguous regions of proteins to form novel peptide antigens. Here, we used high-resolution mass spectrometry combined with new bioinformatic approaches to characterize the immunopeptidome of melanoma cells in the presence or absence of IFNgamma. In total, we identified more than 60,000 peptides from a single patient-derived cell line (LM-MEL-44) and demonstrated that IFNgamma induced changes in the peptidome, with an overlap of only approximately 50% between basal and treated cells. Around 6% to 8% of the peptides were identified as cis-spliced peptides, and 2,213 peptides (1,827 linear and 386 cis-spliced peptides) were derived from known melanoma-associated antigens. These peptide antigens were equally distributed between the constitutive- and IFNgamma-induced peptidome. We next examined additional HLA-matched patient-derived cell lines to investigate how frequently these peptides were identified and found that a high proportion of both linear and spliced peptides was conserved between individual patient tumors, drawing on data amassing to more than 100,000 peptide sequences. Several of these peptides showed in vitro immunogenicity across multiple patients with melanoma. These observations highlight the breadth and complexity of the repertoire of immunogenic peptides that can be exploited therapeutically and suggest that spliced peptides are a major class of tumor antigens.
PXD017545	32938911	Cryo-EM structure of coronavirus-HKU1 haemagglutinin esterase reveals architectural changes arising from prolonged circulation in humans. 	N-linked glycosylation of recombinant soluble ectodomain of HKU1 haemagglutinin esterase	EThcD, coronavirus, glycosylation, structure	The human betacoronaviruses HKU1 and OC43 (subgenus Embecovirus) arose from separate zoonotic introductions, OC43 relatively recently and HKU1 apparently much longer ago. Embecovirus particles contain two surface projections called spike (S) and haemagglutinin-esterase (HE), with S mediating receptor binding and membrane fusion, and HE acting as a receptor-destroying enzyme. Together, they promote dynamic virion attachment to glycan-based receptors, specifically 9-O-acetylated sialic acid. Here we present the cryo-EM structure of the ~80 kDa, heavily glycosylated HKU1 HE at 3.4 Aa resolution. Comparison with existing HE structures reveals a drastically truncated lectin domain, incompatible with sialic acid binding, but with the structure and function of the esterase domain left intact. Cryo-EM and mass spectrometry analysis reveals a putative glycan shield on the now redundant lectin domain. The findings further our insight into the evolution and host adaptation of human embecoviruses, and demonstrate the utility of cryo-EM for studying small, heavily glycosylated proteins.
PXD020803	32939950	Direct cathodic electron uptake coupled to sulfate reduction by Desulfovibrio ferrophilus IS5 biofilms. 	Desulfovibrio ferrophilus IS5 electron uptake	Desulfovibrio ferrophilus IS5	Direct electron uptake is emerging as a key process for electron transfer in anaerobic microbial communities, both between species and from extracellular sources, such as zero-valent iron (Fe(0) ) or cathodic surfaces. In this study, we investigated cathodic electron uptake by Fe(0) -corroding Desulfovibrio ferrophilus IS5 and showed that electron uptake is dependent on direct cell contact via a biofilm on the cathode surface rather than through secreted intermediates. Induction of cathodic electron uptake by lactate-starved D. ferrophilus IS5 cells resulted in the expression of all components necessary for electron uptake; however, protein synthesis was required for full biofilm formation. Notably, proteinase K treatment uncoupled electron uptake from biofilm formation, likely through proteolytic degradation of proteinaceous components of the electron uptake machinery. We also showed that cathodic electron uptake is dependent on SO4 (2-) reduction. The insensitivity of Fe(0) corrosion to proteinase K treatment suggests that electron uptake from a cathode might involve different mechanism(s) than those involved in Fe(0) corrosion.
PXD016423	32943705	The phosphoproteomic responses of duck (Cairna moschata) to classical/novel duck reovirus infections in the spleen tissue. 	The phosphoproteomic responses of duck (Cairna moschata) to classical/novel duck reovirus infections in the spleen tissue	Duck reovirus, immune response, pattern-recognition receptors, phosphorylation, post-translational modification	Duck reovirus (DRV) is a fatal member of the genus Orthoreovirus in the family Reoviridae. The disease caused by DRV leads to huge economic losses to the duck industry. Post-translational modification is an efficient strategy to enhance the immune responses to virus infection. However, the roles of protein phosphorylation in the responses of ducklings to Classic/Novel DRV (C/NDRV) infections are largely unknown. Using a high-resolution LC-MS/MS integrated to highly sensitive immune-affinity antibody method, phosphoproteomes of Cairna moschata spleen tissues under the C/NDRV infections were analyzed, producing a total of 8,504 phosphorylation sites on 2,853 proteins. After normalization with proteomic data, 392 sites on 288 proteins and 484 sites on 342 proteins were significantly changed under the C/NDRV infections, respectively. To characterize the differentially phosphorylated proteins (DPPs), a systematic bioinformatics analyses including Gene Ontology annotation, domain annotation, subcellular localization, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway annotation were performed. Two important serine protease system-related proteins, coagulation factor X and fibrinogen alpha-chain, were identified as phosphorylated proteins, suggesting an involvement of blood coagulation under the C/NDRV infections. Furthermore, 16 proteins involving the intracellular signaling pathways of pattern-recognition receptors were identified as phosphorylated proteins. Changes in the phosphorylation levels of MyD88, NF-kappaB, RIP1, MDA5 and IRF7 suggested a crucial role of protein phosphorylation in host immune responses of C. moschata. Our study provides new insights into the responses of ducklings to the C/NDRV infections at PTM level.
PXD015283	32944179	A novel three step protocol to isolate extracellular vesicles from plasma or cell culture medium with both high yield and purity. 	A novel and simple strategy to isolate extracellular vesicles from human plasma and tissue culture medium with high yield and purity	exosomes, extracellular vesicles, human plasma, isolation, lipoprotein particles	Extracellular vesicles (EV) are membrane encapsulated nanoparticles that can function in intercellular communication, and their presence in biofluids can be indicative for (patho)physiological conditions. Studies aiming to resolve functionalities of EV or to discover EV-associated biomarkers for disease in liquid biopsies are hampered by limitations of current protocols to isolate EV from biofluids or cell culture medium. EV isolation is complicated by the >10(5)-fold numerical excess of other types of particles, including lipoproteins and protein complexes. In addition to persisting contaminants, currently available EV isolation methods may suffer from inefficient EV recovery, bias for EV subtypes, interference with the integrity of EV membranes, and loss of EV functionality. In this study, we established a novel three-step non-selective method to isolate EV from blood or cell culture media with both high yield and purity, resulting in 71% recovery and near to complete elimination of unrelated (lipo)proteins. This EV isolation procedure is independent of ill-defined commercial kits, and apart from an ultracentrifuge, does not require specialised expensive equipment.
PXD018655	32944188	Human ESC-sEVs alleviate age-related bone loss by rejuvenating senescent bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. 	Proteomic analysis of small extracellular vesicles derived from human ESCs	human ESCs, small extracellular vesicle	Tissue-resident stem cell senescence leads to stem cell exhaustion, which is a major cause of physiological and pathological ageing. Stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (SC-EVs) have been reported in preclinical studies to possess therapeutic potential for diverse diseases. However, whether SC-EVs can rejuvenate senescent tissue stem cells to prevent age-related disorders still remains unknown. Here, we show that chronic application of human embryonic stem cell-derived small extracellular vesicles (hESC-sEVs) rescues the function of senescent bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) and prevents age-related bone loss in ageing mice. Transcriptome analysis revealed that hESC-sEVs treatment upregulated the expression of genes involved in antiaging, stem cell proliferation and osteogenic differentiation in BM-MSCs. Furthermore, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis identified 4122 proteins encapsulated in hESC-sEVs. Bioinformatics analysis predicted that the protein components in the hESCs-sEVs function in a synergistic way to induce the activation of several canonical signalling pathways, including Wnt, Sirtuin, AMPK, PTEN signalling, which results in the upregulation of antiaging genes in BM-MSCs and then the recovery of senescent BM-MSCs function. Collectively, our findings reveal the effect of hESC-sEVs in reversing BM-MSCs senescence and age-related osteogenic dysfunction, thereby preventing age-related bone loss. Because hESC-sEVs could alleviate senescence of tissue-resident stem cells, they might be promising therapeutic candidates for age-related diseases.
PXD017072	32945042	System biology analysis reveals the role of voltage-dependent anion channel in mitochondrial dysfunction during non-alcoholic fatty liver disease progression into hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Identification of the Voltage Dependent Anion Channel (VDAC1) protein implicated in the pathology of Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by quantitative proteomics and integrating genetic analysis	Hepatocellular carcinoma, VDAC1, system genetics	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common causes of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but the underlying mechanisms behind the correlation of NAFLD with HCC are unclear. We aimed to uncover the genes and potential mechanisms that drive this progression. This study uncovered the genes and potential mechanisms through a multiple 'omics integration approach. Quantitative proteomics combined with phenotype-association analysis was performed. To investigate the potential mechanisms, a comprehensive transcriptome/lipidome/phenome-wide association analysis was performed in genetic reference panel BXD mice strains. The quantitative proteomics combined with phenotype-association results showed that VDAC1 was significantly increased in tumor tissues and correlated with NAFLD-related traits. Gene co-expression network analysis indicated that VDAC1 is involved in mitochondria dysfunction in the tumorigenic/tumor progression. The association between VDAC1 and mitochondria dysfunction can be explained by the fact that VDAC1 was associated with mitochondria membrane lipids cardiolipin (CL) composition shift. VDAC1 was correlated with the suppression of mature specie CL(LLLL) and elevation level of nascent CL species. Such profiling shift was supported by the significant positive correlation between VDAC1 and PTPMT1, as well as negative correlation with CL remodeling enzyme Tafazzin (TAZ). This study confirmed that the expression of VADC1 was dysregulated in NAFLD-driven HCC and associated with NAFLD progression. The VDAC1-driven mitochondria dysfunction is associated with cardiolipin composition shift, which causes alteration of mitochondria membrane properties.
PXD014955	32945061	SopB- and SifA-dependent shaping of the Salmonella-containing vacuole proteome in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. 	SopB and SifA modify the proteome of the Salmonella-containing vacuole in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum	Dictyostelium, Salmonella, Salmonella-containing vacuole	The ability of Salmonella to survive and replicate within mammalian host cells involves the generation of a membranous compartment known as the Salmonella-containing vacuole (SCV). Salmonella employs a number of effector proteins that are injected into host cells for SCV formation using its type-3 secretion systems encoded in SPI-1 and SPI-2 (T3SS-1 and T3SS-2, respectively). Recently, we reported that S. Typhimurium requires T3SS-1 and T3SS-2 to survive in the model amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Despite these findings, the involved effector proteins have not been identified yet. Therefore, we evaluated the role of two major S. Typhimurium effectors SopB and SifA during D. discoideum intracellular niche formation. First, we established that S. Typhimurium resides in a vacuolar compartment within D. discoideum. Next, we isolated SCVs from amoebae infected with wild type or the DeltasopB and DeltasifA mutant strains of S. Typhimurium, and we characterised the composition of this compartment by quantitative proteomics. This comparative analysis suggests that S. Typhimurium requires SopB and SifA to modify the SCV proteome in order to generate a suitable intracellular niche in D. discoideum. Accordingly, we observed that SopB and SifA are needed for intracellular survival of S. Typhimurium in this organism. Thus, our results provide insight into the mechanisms employed by Salmonella to survive intracellularly in phagocytic amoebae.
PXD018968	32945197	Can Scoliotic Discs Be Controls for Molecular Studies in Intervertebral Disc Research? Insights From Proteomics. 	Can Scoliotic Discs be Controls for Molecular Studies in Intervertebral Disc Research?- Insights from Proteomics.	ESI-LC-MS/MS, IVD, NP, Scoliosis, control discs	STUDY DESIGN: Proteomic analysis of human intervertebral discs. OBJECTIVES: To compare the characters of scoliotic discs and discs from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-normal voluntary organ donors controls used in disc research employing proteomics and establish "true controls" that can be utilized for future intervertebral disc (IVD) research. METHODS: Eight MRI-normal discs from 8 brain-dead voluntary organ donors (ND) and 8 scoliotic discs (SD) from 3 patients who underwent anterior surgery for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis were subjected to tandem mass spectrometry, and further analysis was performed. RESULTS: Mass spectrometry identified a total of 235 proteins in ND and 438 proteins in the SD group. Proteins involved in extracellular matrix integrity (Versican, keratins KRT6A, KRT14, KRT5, and KRT 13A1, A-kinase anchor protein 13, coagulation factor XIII A chain, proteoglycan 4) and proteins involved in transcription and DNA repair (Von Willebrand factor A domain-containing 3B, eukaryotic initiation factor 2B, histone H4, leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2) were found to be downregulated in SD. Inflammatory proteins (C3, C1S), and oxidative stress response proteins (peroxiredoxin-2,6, catalase, myeloperoxidase, apolipoprotein E) were found to be upregulated in SD. These changes were reflected at the pathway level also. CONCLUSION: Findings of our study confirm that scoliotic discs have an abundance of inflammatory, oxidative stress response proteins, which are either absent or downregulated in the ND group indicating that scoliotic discs are not pathologically inert. Furthermore, this study has established MRI-normal discs from voluntary organ donors as the "true" control for molecular studies in IVD research.
PXD017300	32946564	LSD1 prevents aberrant heterochromatin formation in Neurospora crassa. 	LSD1 Prevents Aberrant Heterochromatin Formation in Neurospora crassa	Neurospora crassa, heterochromatin, immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry, lysine-specific demethylase	Heterochromatin is a specialized form of chromatin that restricts access to DNA and inhibits genetic processes, including transcription and recombination. In Neurospora crassa, constitutive heterochromatin is characterized by trimethylation of lysine 9 on histone H3, hypoacetylation of histones, and DNA methylation. We explored whether the conserved histone demethylase, lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1), regulates heterochromatin in Neurospora, and if so, how. Though LSD1 is implicated in heterochromatin regulation, its function is inconsistent across different systems; orthologs of LSD1 have been shown to either promote or antagonize heterochromatin expansion by removing H3K4me or H3K9me respectively. We identify three members of the Neurospora LSD complex (LSDC): LSD1, PHF1, and BDP-1. Strains deficient for any of these proteins exhibit variable spreading of heterochromatin and establishment of new heterochromatin domains throughout the genome. Although establishment of H3K9me3 is typically independent of DNA methylation in Neurospora, instances of DNA methylation-dependent H3K9me3 have been found outside regions of canonical heterochromatin. Consistent with this, the hyper-H3K9me3 phenotype of Deltalsd1 strains is dependent on the presence of DNA methylation, as well as HCHC-mediated histone deacetylation, suggesting that spreading is dependent on some feedback mechanism. Altogether, our results suggest LSD1 works in opposition to HCHC to maintain proper heterochromatin boundaries.
PXD018937	32948771	Rapid and direct control of target protein levels with VHL-recruiting dTAG molecules. 	Rapid and direct control of target protein levels with VHL-recruiting dTAG molecules	PROTAC, dTAG, degraders	Chemical biology strategies for directly perturbing protein homeostasis including the degradation tag (dTAG) system provide temporal advantages over genetic approaches and improved selectivity over small molecule inhibitors. We describe dTAG(V)-1, an exclusively selective VHL-recruiting dTAG molecule, to rapidly degrade FKBP12(F36V)-tagged proteins. dTAG(V)-1 overcomes a limitation of previously reported CRBN-recruiting dTAG molecules to degrade recalcitrant oncogenes, supports combination degrader studies and facilitates investigations of protein function in cells and mice.
PXD019792	32949814	Multidimensional separation schemes enhance the identification and molecular characterization of low molecular weight proteomes and short open reading frame-encoded peptides in top-down proteomics. 	Multidimensional separation schemes enhance the identification and molecular characterization of low molecular weight proteomes and short open reading frame encoded peptides in top-down proteomics	SEP, microprotein	Short open reading frame-encoded peptides (SEP) represent a widely undiscovered part of the proteome. The detailed analysis of SEP has, despite inherent limitations such as incomplete sequence coverage, challenges encountered with protein inference, the identification of posttranslational modifications and the assignment of potential N- and C-terminal truncations, predominantly been assessed using bottom-up proteomic workflows. The use of top-down based proteomic workflows is capable of providing an unparalleled level of characterization information, which is of increased importance in the case of alternatively encoded protein products. However, top-down based analysis is not without its own limitations, for which efficient separation prior to MS analysis is a major issue. We established a sample preparation approach for the combined bottom-up and top-down proteomic analysis of SEP. Key improvements were made by the application of solid phase extraction (SPE), which supported enrichment of proteins below ca. 20 kDa, followed by 2D-LC-MS top-down analysis encompassing both HCD and EThcD ion activation. Bottom-up experiments were used to support and confirm top-down data interpretation. This strategy allowed for the top-down characterization of 36 proteoforms mapping to 12 SEP from the archaeon Methanosarcina mazei strain Goe1, with the concurrent detection and identification of several posttranslational modifications in SEP. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Small or short open reading frames (sORF) have been widely neglected in genome research in the past. With their increasing discovery, the question about the presence and molecular function of their translation products, the short open reading frame-encoded peptides (SEP), arises. As these small proteins are usually below the 10 kDa range, the number of peptides identifiable by bottom-up proteomics is limited which hampers both the identification and the recognition of potential posttranslational modifications. The presented top-down approach allowed for the detection of full length SEP, as well as of terminally truncated proteoforms, and further enabled the identification of disulfide bonds in these small proteins. This demonstrates, that this yet widely undiscovered part of the proteome undergoes the same modifications as classical proteins which is an essential step for future understanding of the biological functions of these molecules.
PXD015932	32949933	Effect of cadmium in the microalga Chlorella sorokiniana: A proteomic study. 	Effect of cadmium in the microalga Chlorella sorokiniana: A proteomic study	Chlorella, cadmium, microalga	Cadmium is one of the most common heavy metals in contaminated aquatic environments and one of the most toxic contaminants for phytoplankton. Nevertheless, there are not enough studies focused on the effect of this metal in algae. Through a proteomic approach, this work shows how Cd can alter the growth, cell morphology and metabolism of the microalga Chlorella sorokiniana. Using the sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS), we concluded that exposure of Chlorella sorokiniana to 250 muM Cd(2+) for 40 h caused downregulation of different metabolic pathways, such as photosynthesis, oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, TCA cycle and ribosomal proteins biosynthesis. However, photorespiration, antioxidant enzymes, gluconeogenesis, starch catabolism, and biosynthesis of glutamate, cysteine, glycine and serine were upregulated, under the same conditions. Finally, exposure to Cd also led to changes in the metabolism of carotenoids and lipids. In addition, the high tolerance of Chlorella sorokiniana to Cd points to this microalga as a potential microorganism to be used in bioremediation processes.
PXD021139	32950589	Targeting UBC9-mediated protein hyper-SUMOylation in cystic cholangiocytes halts polycystic liver disease in experimental models. 	Targeting UBC9-mediated Protein Hyper-SUMOylation in Cystic Cholangiocytes Halts Polycystic Liver Disease in Experimental Models	Hepatic cystogenesis, S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe), SUMOylation, post-translational modifications, therapy.	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Polycystic liver diseases (PLDs) are genetic disorders characterized by progressive development of multiple fluid-filled biliary cysts. Most PLD-causative genes participate in protein biogenesis and/or transport. Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are implicated in protein stability, localization and activity, contributing to human pathobiology; however, their role in PLD is unknown. Herein, we aimed to unveil the role of protein SUMOylation in PLD and its potential therapeutic targeting. METHODS: Levels and functional effects of SUMOylation, along with response to S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe, inhibitor of the SUMOylation enzyme UBC9) and/or short-hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) against UBE2I (UBC9), were evaluated in vitro, in vivo and/or in patients with PLD. SUMOylated proteins were determined by immunoprecipitation and proteomic analyses by mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Most SUMOylation-related genes were found overexpressed (mRNA) in polycystic human and rat liver tissue, as well as in cystic cholangiocytes in culture compared to controls. Increased SUMOylated protein levels were also observed in cystic human cholangiocytes in culture, which decreased after SAMe administration. Chronic treatment of polycystic (PCK: Pkdh1-mut) rats with SAMe halted hepatic cystogenesis and fibrosis, and reduced liver/body weight ratio and liver volume. In vitro, both SAMe and shRNA-mediated UBE2I knockdown increased apoptosis and reduced cell proliferation of cystic cholangiocytes. High-throughput proteomic analysis of SUMO1-immunoprecipitated proteins in cystic cholangiocytes identified candidates involved in protein biogenesis, ciliogenesis and proteasome degradation. Accordingly, SAMe hampered proteasome hyperactivity in cystic cholangiocytes, leading to activation of the unfolded protein response and stress-related apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: Cystic cholangiocytes exhibit increased SUMOylation of proteins involved in cell survival and proliferation, thus promoting hepatic cystogenesis. Inhibition of protein SUMOylation with SAMe halts PLD, representing a novel therapeutic strategy. LAY SUMMARY: Protein SUMOylation is a dynamic post-translational event implicated in numerous cellular processes. This study revealed dysregulated protein SUMOylation in polycystic liver disease, which promotes hepatic cystogenesis. Administration of S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe), a natural UBC9-dependent SUMOylation inhibitor, halted polycystic liver disease in experimental models, thus representing a potential therapeutic agent for patients.
PXD018799	32951143	Acetylome analysis of the feline small intestine following Toxoplasma gondii infection. 	Acetylome Analysis of Feline Small Intestine Following Toxoplasma gondii Infection	Post-translational modification, acetylation, cat	Toxoplasma gondii is a protozoan parasite capable of infecting a large number of warm-blooded animals and causes serious health complications in immunocompromised patients. T. gondii infection of the feline small intestine is critical for the completion of the life cycle and transmission of T. gondii. Protein acetylation is an important posttranslational modification, which plays roles in the regulation of various cellular processes. Therefore, understanding of how T. gondii reprograms the protein acetylation status of feline definitive host can help to thwart the production and spread of T. gondii. Here, we used affinity enrichment and high-resolution liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry to profile the alterations of the acetylome in cat small intestine 10 days after infection by T. gondii Prugniuad (Pru) strain. Our analysis showed that T. gondii induced significant changes in the acetylation of proteins in the cat intestine. We identified 2606 unique lysine acetylation sites in 1357 acetylated proteins. The levels of 334 acetylated peptides were downregulated, while the levels of 82 acetylated peptides were increased in the infected small intestine. The proteins with differentially acetylated peptides were particularly enriched in the bioenergetics-related processes, such as tricarboxylic acid cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, and oxidation-reduction. These results provide the first baseline of the global acetylome of feline small intestine following T. gondii infection and should facilitate further analysis of the role of acetylated protein in the pathogenesis of T. gondii infection in its definitive host.
PXD020044	32951307	Neuronal Differentiation of LUHMES Cells Induces Substantial Changes of the Proteome. 	Neuronal differentiation of LUHMES cells is accompanied by substantial changes of the proteome	LUHMES cells, Parkinson's disease, dopaminergic neuron, murine midbrain neurons	Neuronal cell lines are important model systems to study mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases. One example is the Lund Human Mesencephalic (LUHMES) cell line, which can differentiate into dopaminergic-like neurons and is frequently used to study mechanisms of Parkinson's disease and neurotoxicity. Neuronal differentiation of LUHMES cells is commonly verified with selected neuronal markers, but little is known about the proteome-wide protein abundance changes during differentiation. Using mass spectrometry and label-free quantification (LFQ), the proteome of differentiated and undifferentiated LUHMES cells and of primary murine midbrain neurons are compared. Neuronal differentiation induced substantial changes of the LUHMES cell proteome, with proliferation-related proteins being strongly down-regulated and neuronal and dopaminergic proteins, such as L1CAM and alpha-synuclein (SNCA) being up to 1,000-fold up-regulated. Several of these proteins, including MAPT and SYN1, may be useful as new markers for experimentally validating neuronal differentiation of LUHMES cells. Primary midbrain neurons are slightly more closely related to differentiated than to undifferentiated LUHMES cells, in particular with respect to the abundance of proteins related to neurodegeneration. In summary, the analysis demonstrates that differentiated LUHMES cells are a suitable model for studies on neurodegeneration and provides a resource of the proteome-wide changes during neuronal differentiation. (ProteomeXchange identifier PXD020044).
PXD017640	32951352	Applicability of Chromatographic Co-Elution for Antibiotic Target Identification. 	Applicability of chromatographic co-elution for antibiotic research	Bacillus subtilis, essential proteins, protein complexes, protein-protein interaction	Identification of the molecular target is a crucial step in evaluating novel antibiotics. To support target identification, a label-free method based on chromatographic co-elution has previously been developed. Target identification by chromatographic coelution (TICC) exploits the alteration of the elution profile of target-bound drug versus free drug in ion exchange (IEX) chromatography to identify potential target proteins from elution fractions. The applicability of TICC for antibiotic research is investigated by evaluating which proteins, that is, putative targets, can be monitored in Bacillus subtilis. Coelution of components of known protein complexes provides a read-out for how well the native state of proteins is conserved during chromatography. Rifampicin, which targets RNA polymerase, is used in a proof-of-concept study.
PXD017731	32951420	Identification of Cytosolic Protein Targets of Catechol Estrogens in Breast Cancer Cells Using a Click Chemistry-Based Workflow. 	Identification of Cytosolic Protein Targets of Catechol Estrogens in Breast Cancer Cells Using a Click Chemistry-based Workflow	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Catechol estrogens, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), affinity purification, breast cancer cells	Catechol estrogens (CEs) are known to be toxic metabolites and the initiators of the oncogenesis of breast cancers via forming covalent adducts with DNAs. CEs shall also react with proteins, but their cellular protein targets remain unexplored. Here, we reported the identification of protein targets of CEs in the soluble cytosol of estrogen-sensitive breast cancer cells by multiple comparative proteomics using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) coupled with an improved click chemistry-based workflow. Multiple comparative proteomics composed of an experimental pair (probe versus solvent) and two control pairs (solvent versus solvent and probe versus solvent without enrichment) were studied using stable isotope dimethyl labeling. The use of 4-hydroxyethynylestradiol (4OHEE2) probe with an amide-free linker coupled with on-bead digestion and redigestion of the proteins cleaved from the beads was shown to greatly improve the recovery and identification of CE-adducted peptides. A total of 310 protein targets and 40 adduction sites were repeatedly (n >= 2) identified with D/H (probe/solvent) ratio >4 versus only one identified with D/H >4 from the two control pairs, suggesting that our workflow imposes only a very low background. Meanwhile, multiple comparative D/H ratios revealed that CEs may downregulate many target proteins involved in the metabolism or detoxification, suggesting a negative correlation between CE-induced adduction and expression of proteins acting on the alleviation of stress-induced cellular damages. The reported method and data will provide opportunities to study the progression of estrogen metabolism-derived diseases and biomarkers.
PXD020858	32952127	Mass spectrometry characterization of light chain fragmentation sites in cardiac AL amyloidosis: insights into the timing of proteolysis. 	Mass spectrometry characterization of light chain fragmentation sites in cardiac AL amyloidosis: insights into the timing of proteolysis	Amyloid fibrils, Cardiomyopathy, Proteolysis	Amyloid fibrils are polymeric structures originating from aggregation of misfolded proteins. In vivo, proteolysis may modulate amyloidogenesis and fibril stability. In light chain (AL) amyloidosis, fragmented light chains (LCs) are abundant components of amyloid deposits; however, site and timing of proteolysis are debated. Identification of the N and C termini of LC fragments is instrumental to understanding involved processes and enzymes. We investigated the N and C terminome of the LC proteoforms in fibrils extracted from the hearts of two AL cardiomyopathy patients, using a proteomic approach based on derivatization of N- and C-terminal residues, followed by mapping of fragmentation sites on the structures of native and fibrillar relevant LCs. We provide the first high-specificity map of proteolytic cleavages in natural AL amyloid. Proteolysis occurs both on the LC variable and constant domains, generating a complex fragmentation pattern. The structural analysis indicates extensive remodeling by multiple proteases, largely taking place on poorly folded regions of the fibril surfaces. This study adds novel important knowledge on amyloid LC processing: although our data do not exclude that proteolysis of native LC dimers may destabilize their structure and favor fibril formation, the data show that LC deposition largely precedes the proteolytic events documentable in mature AL fibrils.
PXD020503	32954517	An optimized quantitative proteomics method establishes the cell type-resolved mouse brain secretome. 	Secretome Analysis of hippocampal and cortical murine neurons	BACE1, neurons, secretome	To understand how cells communicate in the nervous system, it is essential to define their secretome, which is challenging for primary cells because of large cell numbers being required. Here, we miniaturized secretome analysis by developing the "high-performance secretome protein enrichment with click sugars" (hiSPECS) method. To demonstrate its broad utility, hiSPECS was used to identify the secretory response of brain slices upon LPS-induced neuroinflammation and to establish the cell type-resolved mouse brain secretome resource using primary astrocytes, microglia, neurons, and oligodendrocytes. This resource allowed mapping the cellular origin of CSF proteins and revealed that an unexpectedly high number of secreted proteins in vitro and in vivo are proteolytically cleaved membrane protein ectodomains. Two examples are neuronally secreted ADAM22 and CD200, which we identified as substrates of the Alzheimer-linked protease BACE1. hiSPECS and the brain secretome resource can be widely exploited to systematically study protein secretion and brain function and to identify cell type-specific biomarkers for CNS diseases.
PXD020223	32955149	Natranaerofaba carboxydovora gen. nov., sp. nov., an extremely haloalkaliphilic CO-utilizing acetogen from a hypersaline soda lake representing a novel deep phylogenetic lineage in the class 'Natranaerobiia'. 	Small extracellular vesicles-delivered LSD1 promotes gastric cancer cell stemness	LSD1, Small extracellular vesicles, gastric cancer, stemness	An anaerobic enrichment with CO from sediments of hypersaline soda lakes resulted in a methane-forming binary culture, whereby CO was utilized by a bacterium and not the methanogenic partner. The bacterial isolate ANCO1 forms a deep-branching phylogenetic lineage at the level of a new family within the class 'Natranaerobiia'. It is an extreme haloalkaliphilic and moderate thermophilic acetogen utilizing CO, formate, pyruvate and lactate as electron donors and thiosulfate, nitrate (reduced to ammonia) and fumarate as electron acceptors. The genome of ANCO1 encodes a full Wood-Ljungdahl pathway allowing for CO oxidation and acetogenic conversion of pyruvate. A locus encoding Nap nitrate reductase/NrfA ammonifying nitrite reductase is also present. Thiosulfate respiration is encoded by a Phs/Psr-like operon. The organism obviously relies on Na-based bioenergetics, since the genome encodes for the Na(+) -Rnf complex, Na(+) -F1F0 ATPase and Na(+) -translocating decarboxylase. Glycine betaine serves as a compatible solute. ANCO1 has an unusual membrane polar lipid composition dominated by diethers, more common among archaea, probably a result of adaptation to multiple extremophilic conditions. Overall, ANCO1 represents a unique example of a triple extremophilic CO-oxidizing anaerobe and is classified as a novel genus and species Natranaerofaba carboxydovora in a novel family Natranaerofabacea.
PXD018291	32955856	Decision Tree Searching Strategy to Boost the Identification of Cross-Linked Peptides. 	A decision tree searching strategy to boost the identification of cross-linked peptides	XLINK-MS, data-analysis	We describe an efficient decision tree searching strategy (DTSS) to boost the identification of cross-linked peptides. The DTSS approach allows the identification of a wealth of complementary information to facilitate the construction of more protein-protein interaction networks for human cell lysate, which was tested by the use of a recently reported cross-linking data set (ACS Cent. Sci. 2019, 5, 1514-1522). A variant of the PhoX-linker, named pDSPE, was synthesized and applied to cross-link Escherichia coli cell lysate to demonstrate that the acquisition of doubly charged ions can significantly improve identification results. The method can be seamlessly integrated to other search engines to maximize the number of identified cross-links.
PXD018223	32956847	Hepatic FTO is dispensable for the regulation of metabolism but counteracts HCC development in vivo. 	Quantitative Proteomics of Mouse Liver (FTO-KO,WT) in response to DEN injection	CUL4A, DEN, FTO, liver	OBJECTIVE: Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the FTO gene encoding an m(6)Am and an m(6)A demethylase are associated with obesity. Moreover, recent studies have linked a dysregulation of m(6)A modifications and its machinery, including FTO, to the development of several forms of cancers. However, the functional role of hepatic FTO in metabolism and the development and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a proteotypic obesity-associated cancer, remains unclear. Thus, we aimed to reveal the role of hepatic FTO in metabolism and in the initiation and progression of HCC in vivo. METHODS: We generated mice with hepatic FTO deficiency (FTO(L-KO)). The effect of hepatic FTO on metabolism was investigated by extensive metabolic phenotyping. To determine the impact of hepatic FTO on HCC development, FTO(L-KO) and Ctrl mice were subjected to long-term diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced HCC-development and the tumor initiation phase was examined via a short-term DEN protocol. RESULTS: In long-term DEN experiments, FTO(L-KO) mice exhibit increased HCC burden compared to Ctrl mice. In the tumor initiation phase, Ctrl mice display a dynamic regulation of FTO upon induction of liver damage, while this response is abrogated in FTO-deficient mice. Proteomic analyses revealed that liver damage-induced increases in FTO expression reduce CUL4A protein abundance. Functionally, simultaneous knockdown of Cul4a reverses the increased hepatocyte proliferation observed upon loss of FTO. CONCLUSION: Collectively, our study demonstrates that hepatic FTO is dispensable for the control of energy homeostasis and glucose metabolism. However, we show a protective function of FTO in liver carcinogenesis and suggest the FTO-dependent dynamic mRNA demethylation of Cul4a in the initiation of HCC development contributes to this effect.
PXD017728	32957906	Proteomic and metabolic profile analysis of low-temperature storage responses in Ipomoea batata Lam. tuberous roots. 	Proteomic and metabolic profile analysis of low-temperature storage responses in Ipomoea batata Lam. tuberous roots	Chilling tolerance, Low-temperature storage, Proteometabolomic, Starch metabolism, Sweetpotato	BACKGROUND: Sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas L.) is one of the seven major food crops grown worldwide. Cold stress often can cause protein expression pattern and substance contents variations for tuberous roots of sweetpotato during low-temperature storage. Recently, we developed proteometabolic profiles of the fresh sweetpotatoes (cv. Xinxiang) in an attempt to discern the cold stress-responsive mechanism of tuberous root crops during post-harvest storage. RESULTS: For roots stored under 4 degreesC condition, the CI index, REC and MDA content in roots were significantly higher than them at control temperature (13 degreesC). The activities of SOD, CAT, APX, O2(.-) producing rate, proline and especially soluble sugar contents were also significantly increased. Most of the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were implicated in pathways related to metabolic pathway, especially phenylpropanoids and followed by starch and sucrose metabolism. L-ascorbate peroxidase 3 and catalase were down-regulated during low temperature storage. alpha-amylase, sucrose synthase and fructokinase were significantly up-regulated in starch and sucrose metabolism, while beta-glucosidase, glucose-1-phosphate adenylyl-transferase and starch synthase were opposite. Furthermore, metabolome profiling revealed that glucosinolate biosynthesis, tropane, piperidine and pyridine alkaloid biosynthesis as well as protein digestion and absorption played a leading role in metabolic pathways of roots. Leucine, tryptophan, tyrosine, isoleucine and valine were all significantly up-regulated in glucosinolate biosynthesis. CONCLUSIONS: Our proteomic and metabolic profile analysis of sweetpotatoes stored at low temperature reveal that the antioxidant enzymes activities, proline and especially soluble sugar content were significantly increased. Most of the DEPs were implicated in phenylpropanoids and followed by starch and sucrose metabolism. The discrepancy between proteomic (L-ascorbate peroxidase 3 and catalase) and biochemical (CAT/APX activity) data may be explained by higher H2O2 levels and increased ascorbate redox states, which enhanced the CAT/APX activity indirectly. Glucosinolate biosynthesis played a leading role in metabolic pathways. Leucine, tryptophan, tyrosine, isoleucine and valine were all significantly up-regulated in glucosinolate biosynthesis.
PXD014585	32958637	Endoplasmic reticulum chaperones stabilize ligand-receptive MR1 molecules for efficient presentation of metabolite antigens. 	Endoplasmic Reticulum Chaperones Stabilize Ligand-Receptive MR1 molecules for Efficient Presentation of Metabolite Antigens	MAIT cells, MHC, MR1, label-free MS	The antigen-presenting molecule MR1 (MHC class I-related protein 1) presents metabolite antigens derived from microbial vitamin B2 synthesis to activate mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells. Key aspects of this evolutionarily conserved pathway remain uncharacterized, including where MR1 acquires ligands and what accessory proteins assist ligand binding. We answer these questions by using a fluorophore-labeled stable MR1 antigen analog, a conformation-specific MR1 mAb, proteomic analysis, and a genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 library screen. We show that the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) contains a pool of two unliganded MR1 conformers stabilized via interactions with chaperones tapasin and tapasin-related protein. This pool is the primary source of MR1 molecules for the presentation of exogenous metabolite antigens to MAIT cells. Deletion of these chaperones reduces the ER-resident MR1 pool and hampers antigen presentation and MAIT cell activation. The MR1 antigen-presentation pathway thus co-opts ER chaperones to fulfill its unique ability to present exogenous metabolite antigens captured within the ER.
PXD019876	32958661	Vitamin D3 receptor polymorphisms regulate T cells and T cell-dependent inflammatory diseases. 	Polymorphisms of the vitamin D receptor regulate T cells and T cell dependent inflammatory diseases	T cell, inflammatory disease, vitamin D3	It has proven difficult to identify the underlying genes in complex autoimmune diseases. Here, we use forward genetics to identify polymorphisms in the vitamin D receptor gene (Vdr) promoter, controlling Vdr expression and T cell activation. We isolated these polymorphisms in a congenic mouse line, allowing us to study the immunomodulatory properties of VDR in a physiological context. Congenic mice overexpressed VDR selectively in T cells, and thus did not suffer from calcemic effects. VDR overexpression resulted in an enhanced antigen-specific T cell response and more severe autoimmune phenotypes. In contrast, vitamin D3-deficiency inhibited T cell responses and protected mice from developing autoimmune arthritis. Our observations are likely translatable to humans, as Vdr is overexpressed in rheumatic joints. Genetic control of VDR availability codetermines the proinflammatory behavior of T cells, suggesting that increased presence of VDR at the site of inflammation might limit the antiinflammatory properties of its ligand.
PXD016007	32958672	Unusually efficient CUG initiation of an overlapping reading frame in POLG mRNA yields novel protein POLGARF. 	Alternative Reading Frame expression in POLG gene	5'UTR, C1QBP, CUG, MIR, POLG, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, dual coding, leaky scanning, uORF	While near-cognate codons are frequently used for translation initiation in eukaryotes, their efficiencies are usually low (<10% compared to an AUG in optimal context). Here, we describe a rare case of highly efficient near-cognate initiation. A CUG triplet located in the 5' leader of POLG messenger RNA (mRNA) initiates almost as efficiently (~60 to 70%) as an AUG in optimal context. This CUG directs translation of a conserved 260-triplet-long overlapping open reading frame (ORF), which we call POLGARF (POLG Alternative Reading Frame). Translation of a short upstream ORF 5' of this CUG governs the ratio between POLG (the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA polymerase) and POLGARF synthesized from a single POLG mRNA. Functional investigation of POLGARF suggests a role in extracellular signaling. While unprocessed POLGARF localizes to the nucleoli together with its interacting partner C1QBP, serum stimulation results in rapid cleavage and secretion of a POLGARF C-terminal fragment. Phylogenetic analysis shows that POLGARF evolved ~160 million y ago due to a mammalian-wide interspersed repeat (MIR) transposition into the 5' leader sequence of the mammalian POLG gene, which became fixed in placental mammals. This discovery of POLGARF unveils a previously undescribed mechanism of de novo protein-coding gene evolution.
PXD019268	32959870	Rubisco lysine acetylation occurs at very low stoichiometry in mature Arabidopsis leaves: implications for regulation of enzyme function. 	Rubisco acetylation stoichiometry in Arabidopsis Thaliana	Lys-acetylation, Rubisco	Multiple studies have shown ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (E.C. 4.1.1.39; Rubisco) to be subject to Lys-acetylation at various residues; however, opposing reports exist about the biological significance of these post-translational modifications. One aspect of the Lys-acetylation that has not been addressed in plants generally, or with Rubisco specifically, is the stoichiometry at which these Lys-acetylation events occur. As a method to ascertain which Lys-acetylation sites on Arabidopsis Rubisco might be of regulatory importance to its catalytic function in the Calvin-Benson cycle, we purified Rubisco from leaves in both the day and night-time and performed independent mass spectrometry based methods to determine the stoichiometry of Rubisco Lys-acetylation events. The results indicate that Rubisco is acetylated at most Lys residues, but each acetylation event occurs at very low stoichiometry. Furthermore, in vitro treatments that increased the extent of Lys-acetylation on purified Rubisco had no effect on Rubisco maximal activity. Therefore, we are unable to confirm that Lys-acetylation at low stoichiometries can be a regulatory mechanism controlling Rubisco maximal activity. The results highlight the need for further use of stoichiometry measurements when determining the biological significance of reversible PTMs like acetylation.
PXD016038	32960270	Affinity proteomic dissection of the human nuclear cap-binding complex interactome. 	Multi-condition affinity capture/MS analysis of LAP-tagged human NCBP1, NCBP2, and NCBP3	CBC, cap binding complex, interactome screen, mRNP	A 5',7-methylguanosine cap is a quintessential feature of RNA polymerase II-transcribed RNAs, and a textbook aspect of co-transcriptional RNA processing. The cap is bound by the cap-binding complex (CBC), canonically consisting of nuclear cap-binding proteins 1 and 2 (NCBP1/2). Interest in the CBC has recently renewed due to its participation in RNA-fate decisions via interactions with RNA productive factors as well as with adapters of the degradative RNA exosome. A novel cap-binding protein, NCBP3, was recently proposed to form an alternative CBC together with NCBP1, and to interact with the canonical CBC along with the protein SRRT. The theme of post-transcriptional RNA fate, and how it relates to co-transcriptional ribonucleoprotein assembly, is abundant with complicated, ambiguous, and likely incomplete models. In an effort to clarify the compositions of NCBP1-, 2- and 3-related macromolecular assemblies, we have applied an affinity capture-based interactome screen where the experimental design and data processing have been modified to quantitatively identify interactome differences between targets under a range of experimental conditions. This study generated a comprehensive view of NCBP-protein interactions in the ribonucleoprotein context and demonstrates the potential of our approach to benefit the interpretation of complex biological pathways.
PXD012000	32960509	Proteomic patterns associated with response to breast cancer neoadjuvant treatment. 	Clinical proteomics of invasive breast carcinoma reveals a major role for proline metabolism in imparting drug resistance	Clinical proteomics, Metabolism, Neoadjuvant chemotherapy, Proline biosynthesis	Tumor relapse as a consequence of chemotherapy resistance is a major clinical challenge in advanced stage breast tumors. To identify processes associated with poor clinical outcome, we took a mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach and analyzed a breast cancer cohort of 113 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples. Proteomic profiling of matched tumors before and after chemotherapy, and tumor-adjacent normal tissue, all from the same patients, allowed us to define eight patterns of protein level changes, two of which correlate to better chemotherapy response. Supervised analysis identified two proteins of proline biosynthesis pathway, PYCR1 and ALDH18A1, that were significantly associated with resistance to treatment based on pattern dominance. Weighted gene correlation network analysis of post-treatment samples revealed that these proteins are associated with tumor relapse and affect patient survival. Functional analysis showed that knockdown of PYCR1 reduced invasion and migration capabilities of breast cancer cell lines. PYCR1 knockout significantly reduced tumor burden and increased drug sensitivity of orthotopically injected ER-positive tumor in vivo, thus emphasizing the role of PYCR1 in resistance to chemotherapy.
PXD020444	32960510	Urinary Proteomics Associates with COVID-19 Severity: Pilot Proof-of-Principle Data and Design of a Multicentric Diagnostic Study. 	Urinary peptides enable assessment of disease severity in COVID-19	COVID-19, COVID31, ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2	SARS-CoV-2 infection results in a mild-to-moderate disease course in most patients, allowing outpatient self-care and quarantine. However, in approx. 10% of cases a two- or three-phasic critical disease course with starting from day 7 to 10 is observed. To facilitate and plan outpatient care, biomarkers prognosing such worsening at an early stage appear of outmost importance. In this accelerated article, we report on the identification of urinary peptides significantly associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection, and the development of a multi-marker urinary peptide based test, COVID20, that may enable prognosis of critical and fatal outcomes in COVID-19 patients. COVID20 is composed of 20 endogenous peptides mainly derived from various collagen chains that enable differentiating moderate or severe disease from critical state or death with 83% sensitivity at 100% specificity. Based on the performance in this pilot study, testing in a prospective study on 1000 patients has been initiated. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
PXD020666	32963012	A mutant form of ERalpha associated with estrogen insensitivity affects the coupling between ligand binding and coactivator recruitment. 	Protein interactome profiling of ER alpha by RIME assay from the human hepatocellular cancer HepG2 stable cells	ER alpha mutation, cell model, protein interactome	A homozygous missense mutation in the gene encoding the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) was previously identified in a female patient with estrogen insensitivity syndrome. We investigated the molecular features underlying the impaired transcriptional response of this mutant (ERalpha-Q375H) and four other missense mutations at this position designed to query alternative mechanisms. The identity of residue 375 greatly affected the sensitivity of the receptor to agonists without changing the ligand binding affinity. Instead, the mutations caused changes in the affinity of coactivator binding and alterations in the balance of coactivator and corepressor recruitment. Comparisons among the transcriptional regulatory responses of these six ERalpha genotypes to a set of ER agonists showed that both steric and electrostatic factors contributed to the functional deficits in gene regulatory activity of the mutant ERalpha proteins. ERalpha-coregulator peptide binding in vitro and RIME (rapid immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of endogenous) analysis in cells showed that the degree of functional impairment paralleled changes in receptor-coregulator binding interactions. These findings uncover coupling between ligand binding and coregulator recruitment that affects the potency rather than the efficacy of the receptor response without substantially altering ligand binding affinity. This highlights a molecular mechanism for estrogen insensitivity syndrome involving mutations that perturb a bidirectional allosteric coupling between ligand binding and coregulator binding that determines receptor transcriptional output.
PXD017045	32963032	Global Proteome and Phosphoproteome Characterization of Sepsis-induced Kidney Injury. 	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics of sepsis induced acute and chronic kidney disease	AKI, CKD, Kidney, Phosphoproteomics, Sepsis	Sepsis-induced acute kidney injury (S-AKI) is the most common complication in hospitalized and critically ill patients, highlighted by a rapid decline of kidney function occurring a few hours or days after sepsis onset. Systemic inflammation elicited by microbial infections is believed to lead to kidney damage under immunocompromised conditions. However, although AKI has been recognized as a disease with long-term sequelae, partly because of the associated higher risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD), the understanding of kidney pathophysiology at the molecular level and the global view of dynamic regulations in situ after S-AKI, including the transition to CKD, remains limited. Existing studies of S-AKI mainly focus on deriving sepsis biomarkers from body fluids. In the present study, we constructed a mid-severity septic murine model using cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), and examined the temporal changes to the kidney proteome and phosphoproteome at day 2 and day 7 after CLP surgery, corresponding to S-AKI and the transition to CKD, respectively, by employing an ultrafast and economical filter-based sample processing method combined with the label-free quantitation approach. Collectively, we identified 2,119 proteins and 2950 phosphosites through multi-proteomics analyses. Among them, we identified an array of highly promising candidate marker proteins indicative of disease onset and progression accompanied by immunoblot validations, and further denoted the pathways that are specifically responsive to S-AKI and its transition to CKD, which include regulation of cell metabolism regulation, oxidative stress, and energy consumption in the diseased kidneys. Our data can serve as an enriched resource for the identification of mechanisms and biomarkers for sepsis-induced kidney diseases.
PXD013449	32963504	Development of robust targeted proteomics assays for cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in multiple sclerosis. 	Cerebrospinal fluid 20 g protein digest mixed-mode fractionation 11 fractions	cerebrospinal fluid	BACKGROUND: Verification of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for multiple sclerosis and other neurological diseases is a major challenge due to a large number of candidates, limited sample material availability, disease and biological heterogeneity, and the lack of standardized assays. Furthermore, verification studies are often based on a low number of proteins from a single discovery experiment in medium-sized cohorts, where antibodies and surrogate peptides may differ, thus only providing an indication of proteins affected by the disease and not revealing the bigger picture or concluding on the validity of the markers. We here present a standard approach for locating promising biomarker candidates based on existing knowledge, resulting in high-quality assays covering the main biological processes affected by multiple sclerosis for comparable measurements over time. METHODS: Biomarker candidates were located in CSF-PR (proteomics.uib.no/csf-pr), and further filtered based on estimated concentration in CSF and biological function. Peptide surrogates for internal standards were selected according to relevant criteria, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assays created, and extensive assay quality testing performed, i.e. intra- and inter-day variation, trypsin digestion status over time, and whether the peptides were able to separate multiple sclerosis patients and controls. RESULTS: Assays were developed for 25 proteins, represented by 72 peptides selected according to relevant guidelines and available literature and tested for assay peptide suitability. Stability testing revealed 64 peptides with low intra- and inter-day variations, with 44 also being stably digested after 16 h of trypsin digestion, and 37 furthermore showing a significant difference between multiple sclerosis and controls, thereby confirming literature findings. Calibration curves and the linear area of measurement have, so far, been determined for 17 of these peptides. CONCLUSIONS: We present 37 high-quality PRM assays across 21 CSF-proteins found to be affected by multiple sclerosis, along with a recommended workflow for future development of new assays. The assays can directly be used by others, thus enabling better comparison between studies. Finally, the assays can robustly and stably monitor biological processes in multiple sclerosis patients over time, thus potentially aiding in diagnosis and prognosis, and ultimately in treatment decisions.
PXD018054	32964716	Label-Free Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Reveals Signaling Dynamics Involved in Embryogenic Competence Acquisition in Sugarcane. 	Phosphorylation mediates hormonal, epigenetic and stress responses related to sugarcane somatic embryogenesis competence	Abscisic acid, Histone deacetylase, Phosphoproteomics, SnRK1, Totipotency	In this study, a label-free quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis was performed to identify and quantify signaling events related to the acquisition of embryogenic competence in sugarcane. Embryogenic and nonembryogenic calli were compared at the multiplication phase, resulting in the identification of 163 phosphoproteins unique to embryogenic calli, 9 unique to nonembryogenic calli, and 51 upregulated and 40 downregulated in embryogenic calli compared to nonembryogenic calli. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018054. Motif-x analysis revealed the enrichment of [xxxpSPxxx], [RxxpSxxx], and [xxxpSDxxx] motifs, which are predicted phosphorylation sites for several kinases related to stress responses. The embryogenic-related phosphoproteins (those unique and upregulated in embryogenic calli) identified in the present study are related to abscisic acid-induced signaling and abiotic stress response; they include OSK3, ABF1, LEAs, and RD29Bs. On the other hand, the nonembryogenic-related phosphoproteins EDR1 and PP2Ac-2 are negative regulators of abscisic acid signaling, suggesting a relationship between phosphoproteins involved in the abscisic acid and stress responses in the acquisition of embryogenic competence. Moreover, embryogenic-related phosphoproteins associated with epigenetic modifications, such as HDA6, HDA19, and TOPLESS, and with RNA metabolism, including AGO1, DEAH5, SCL30, UB2C, and SR45, were identified to play potential roles in embryogenic competence. These results reveal novel phosphorylation sites for several proteins and identify potential candidate biomarkers for the acquisition of embryogenic competence in sugarcane.
PXD020478	32965059	RNF43 truncations trap CK1 to drive niche-independent self-renewal in cancer. 	RNF43 truncations trap CK1 to drive niche-independent self-renewal in cancer	PORCN inhibitors, RNF 43, Wnt signaling, cancer mutations, human colon organoids	Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is a primary pathway for stem cell maintenance during tissue renewal and a frequent target for mutations in cancer. Impaired Wnt receptor endocytosis due to loss of the ubiquitin ligase RNF43 gives rise to Wnt-hypersensitive tumors that are susceptible to anti-Wnt-based therapy. Contrary to this paradigm, we identify a class of RNF43 truncating cancer mutations that induce beta-catenin-mediated transcription, despite exhibiting retained Wnt receptor downregulation. These mutations interfere with a ubiquitin-independent suppressor role of the RNF43 cytosolic tail that involves Casein kinase 1 (CK1) binding and phosphorylation. Mechanistically, truncated RNF43 variants trap CK1 at the plasma membrane, thereby preventing beta-catenin turnover and propelling ligand-independent target gene transcription. Gene editing of human colon stem cells shows that RNF43 truncations cooperate with p53 loss to drive a niche-independent program for self-renewal and proliferation. Moreover, these RNF43 variants confer decreased sensitivity to anti-Wnt-based therapy. Our data demonstrate the relevance of studying patient-derived mutations for understanding disease mechanisms and improved applications of precision medicine.
PXD018162	32965214	Light-regulated allosteric switch enables temporal and subcellular control of enzyme activity. 	Optogenetic Src Temporal Signaling	HeLa, Optogenetics, Src, phosphotyrosine	Engineered allosteric regulation of protein activity provides significant advantages for the development of robust and broadly applicable tools. However, the application of allosteric switches in optogenetics has been scarce and suffers from critical limitations. Here, we report an optogenetic approach that utilizes an engineered Light-Regulated (LightR) allosteric switch module to achieve tight spatiotemporal control of enzymatic activity. Using the tyrosine kinase Src as a model, we demonstrate efficient regulation of the kinase and identify temporally distinct signaling responses ranging from seconds to minutes. LightR-Src off-kinetics can be tuned by modulating the LightR photoconversion cycle. A fast cycling variant enables the stimulation of transient pulses and local regulation of activity in a selected region of a cell. The design of the LightR module ensures broad applicability of the tool, as we demonstrate by achieving light-mediated regulation of Abl and bRaf kinases as well as Cre recombinase.
PXD021080	32966064	Development of a Parallel Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometry Assay for the Detection of SARS-CoV-2 Spike Glycoprotein and Nucleoprotein. 	Development of a parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mass spectrometry-assay for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein and nucleoprotein	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, QExactive HF-X, SARS-CoV-2, Spike protein, heavy standard peptides, nucleoprotein, parallel reaction monitoring, skyline	There is an urgent need for robust and high-throughput methods for SARS-CoV-2 detection in suspected patient samples to facilitate disease management, surveillance, and control. Although nucleic acid detection methods such as reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) are the gold standard, during the current pandemic, the deployment of RT-PCR tests has been extremely slow, and key reagents such as PCR primers and RNA extraction kits are at critical shortages. Rapid point-of-care viral antigen detection methods have been previously employed for the diagnosis of respiratory viruses such as influenza and respiratory syncytial viruses. Therefore, the direct detection of SARS-CoV-2 viral antigens in patient samples could also be used for diagnosis of active infection, and alternative methodologies for specific and sensitive viral protein detection should be explored. Targeted mass spectrometry techniques have enabled the identification and quantitation of a defined subset of proteins/peptides at single amino acid resolution with attomole level sensitivity and high reproducibility. Herein, we report a targeted mass spectrometry assay for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and nucleoprotein in a relevant biological matrix. Recombinant full-length spike protein and nucleoprotein were digested and proteotypic peptides were selected for parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) quantitation using a high-resolution Orbitrap instrument. A spectral library, which contained seven proteotypic peptides (four from spike protein and three from nucleoprotein) and the top three to four transitions, was generated and evaluated. From the original spectral library, we selected two best performing peptides for the final PRM assay. The assay was evaluated using mock test samples containing inactivated SARS-CoV-2 virions, added to in vitro derived mucus. The PRM assay provided a limit of detection of ~200 attomoles and a limit of quantitation of ~ 390 attomoles. Extrapolating from the test samples, the projected titer of virus particles necessary for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 spike and nucleoprotein detection was approximately 2 x 10(5) viral particles/mL, making it an attractive alternative to RT-PCR assays. Potentially, mass spectrometry-based methods for viral antigen detection may deliver higher throughput and could serve as a complementary diagnostic tool to RT-PCR. Furthermore, this assay could be used to evaluate the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in archived or recently collected biological fluids, in vitro-derived research materials, and wastewater samples.
PXD020563	32966280	Molecular classification of the placebo effect in nausea. 	Molecular classification of the placebo effect in nausea by mass spectrometry	DIA-MS, Nausea, Placebo, plasma	In this proof-of-concept study, we tested whether placebo effects can be monitored and predicted by plasma proteins. In a randomized controlled design, 90 participants were exposed to a nauseating stimulus on two separate days and were randomly allocated to placebo treatment or no treatment on the second day. Significant placebo effects on nausea, motion sickness, and (in females) gastric activity could be verified. Using label-free tandem mass spectrometry, 74 differentially regulated proteins were identified as correlates of the placebo effect. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analyses identified acute-phase proteins and microinflammatory proteins to be involved, and the identified GO signatures predicted day-adjusted scores of nausea indices in the placebo group. We also performed GO enrichment analyses of specific plasma proteins predictable by the experimental factors or their interactions and identified 'grooming behavior' as a prominent hit. Finally, Receiver Operator Characteristics (ROC) allowed to identify plasma proteins differentiating placebo responders from non-responders, comprising immunoglobulins and proteins involved in oxidation reduction processes and complement activation. Plasma proteomics is a promising tool to identify molecular correlates and predictors of the placebo effect in humans.
PXD017417	32966781	Mapping Physiological ADP-Ribosylation Using Activated Ion Electron Transfer Dissociation. 	Mapping physiological ADP-ribosylation using Activated Ion Electron Transfer Dissociation (AI-ETD)	ADP-ribosylation, ADPr, AI-ETD, PARP, PTM, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, activated ion electron transfer dissociation, post-translational modification	ADP-ribosylation (ADPr) is a post-translational modification that plays pivotal roles in a wide range of cellular processes. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based analysis of ADPr under physiological conditions, without relying on genetic or chemical perturbation, has been hindered by technical limitations. Here, we describe the applicability of activated ion electron transfer dissociation (AI-ETD) for MS-based proteomics analysis of physiological ADPr using our unbiased Af1521 enrichment strategy. To benchmark AI-ETD, we profile 9,000 ADPr peptides mapping to >5,000 unique ADPr sites from a limited number of cells exposed to oxidative stress and identify 120% and 28% more ADPr peptides compared to contemporary strategies using ETD and electron-transfer higher-energy collisional dissociation (EThcD), respectively. Under physiological conditions, AI-ETD identifies 450 ADPr sites on low-abundant proteins, including in vivo cysteine modifications on poly(ADP-ribosyl)polymerase (PARP) 8 and tyrosine modifications on PARP14, hinting at specialist enzymatic functions for these enzymes. Collectively, our data provide insights into the physiological regulation of ADPr.
PXD017946	32966799	11q Deletion or ALK Activity Curbs DLG2 Expression to Maintain an Undifferentiated State in Neuroblastoma. 	11q deletion or ALK activity curbs DLG2 expression to maintain an undifferentiated state in neuroblastoma.	ALK, DLG2, ERK, NGF, Retinoic acid, SNP, TRK, genomic profiles, neuroblastoma, tumor suppressor, whole genome sequencing	High-risk neuroblastomas typically display an undifferentiated or poorly differentiated morphology. It is therefore vital to understand molecular mechanisms that block the differentiation process. We identify an important role for oncogenic ALK-ERK1/2-SP1 signaling in the maintenance of undifferentiated neural crest-derived progenitors through the repression of DLG2, a candidate tumor suppressor gene in neuroblastoma. DLG2 is expressed in the murine "bridge signature" that represents the transcriptional transition state when neural crest cells or Schwann cell precursors differentiate to chromaffin cells of the adrenal gland. We show that the restoration of DLG2 expression spontaneously drives neuroblastoma cell differentiation, highlighting the importance of DLG2 in this process. These findings are supported by genetic analyses of high-risk 11q deletion neuroblastomas, which identified genetic lesions in the DLG2 gene. Our data also suggest that further exploration of other bridge genes may help elucidate the mechanisms underlying the differentiation of NC-derived progenitors and their contribution to neuroblastomas.
PXD020602	32966807	Identification of Small-Molecule Activators of the Ubiquitin Ligase E6AP/UBE3A and Angelman Syndrome-Derived E6AP/UBE3A Variants. 	Identification of small molecule activators of the ubiquitin ligase E6AP/UBE3A and Angelman syndrome-derived E6AP/UBE3A variants	Angelman syndrome, E6AP, UBE3A, XL-MS, crosslinking coupled to mass spectrometry, fluorescence polarization, high-throughput screen, small molecule activator, ubiquitin ligase	Genetic aberrations of the UBE3A gene encoding the E3 ubiquitin ligase E6AP underlie the development of Angelman syndrome (AS). Approximately 10% of AS individuals harbor UBE3A genes with point mutations, frequently resulting in the expression of full-length E6AP variants with defective E3 activity. Since E6AP exists in two states, an inactive and an active one, we hypothesized that distinct small molecules can stabilize the active state and that such molecules may rescue the E3 activity of AS-derived E6AP variants. Therefore, we established an assay that allows identifying modulators of E6AP in a high-throughput format. We identified several compounds that not only stimulate wild-type E6AP but also rescue the E3 activity of certain E6AP variants. Moreover, by chemical cross-linking coupled to mass spectrometry we provide evidence that the compounds stabilize an active conformation of E6AP. Thus, these compounds represent potential lead structures for the design of drugs for AS treatment.
PXD019604	32967043	Serum sCD14, PGLYRP2 and FGA as potential biomarkers for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis based on data-independent acquisition and targeted proteomics. 	Serum protein abundance of MDR-TB patients based on PRM analysis	PRM, TB, serum	Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), defined as tuberculosis (TB) resistant to at least isoniazid and rifampicin, is a major concern of TB control worldwide. However, the diagnosis of MDR-TB remains a huge challenge to its prevention and control. To identify new diagnostic methods for MDR-TB, a mass spectrometry strategy of data-independent acquisition and parallel reaction monitoring was used to detect and validate differential serum proteins. The bioinformatic analysis showed that the functions of differential serum proteins between the MDR-TB group and the drug-sensitive tuberculosis group were significantly correlated to the complement coagulation cascade, surface adhesion and extracellular matrix receptor interaction, suggesting a disorder of coagulation in TB. Here, we identified three potential candidate biomarkers such as sCD14, PGLYRP2 and FGA, and established a diagnostic model using these three candidate biomarkers with a sensitivity of 81.2%, a specificity of 90% and the area under the curve value of 0.934 in receiver operation characteristics curve to diagnose MDR-TB. Our study has paved the way for a novel method to diagnose MDR-TB and may contribute to elucidate the mechanisms underlying MDR-TB.
PXD015027	32967551	Selective autophagy regulates heat stress memory in Arabidopsis by NBR1-mediated targeting of HSP90.1 and ROF1. 	Selective autophagy regulates heat stress memory by NBR1-mediated targeting of HSP90 and ROF1	Autophagy, Heat Stress Memory, LC-MS	In nature, plants are constantly exposed to many transient, but recurring, stresses. Thus, to complete their life cycles, plants require a dynamic balance between capacities to recover following cessation of stress and maintenance of stress memory. Recently, we uncovered a new functional role for macroautophagy/autophagy in regulating recovery from heat stress (HS) and resetting cellular memory of HS in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we demonstrated that NBR1 (next to BRCA1 gene 1) plays a crucial role as a receptor for selective autophagy during recovery from HS. Immunoblot analysis and confocal microscopy revealed that levels of the NBR1 protein, NBR1-labeled puncta, and NBR1 activity are all higher during the HS recovery phase than before. Co-immunoprecipitation analysis of proteins interacting with NBR1 and comparative proteomic analysis of an nbr1-null mutant and wild-type plants identified 58 proteins as potential novel targets of NBR1. Cellular, biochemical and functional genetic studies confirmed that NBR1 interacts with HSP90.1 (heat shock protein 90.1) and ROF1 (rotamase FKBP 1), a member of the FKBP family, and mediates their degradation by autophagy, which represses the response to HS by attenuating the expression of HSP genes regulated by the HSFA2 transcription factor. Accordingly, loss-of-function mutation of NBR1 resulted in a stronger HS memory phenotype. Together, our results provide new insights into the mechanistic principles by which autophagy regulates plant response to recurrent HS.Abbreviations: AIM: Atg8-interacting motif; ATG: autophagy-related; BiFC: bimolecular fluorescence complementation; ConA: concanamycinA; CoIP: co-immunoprecipitation; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; FKBP: FK506-binding protein; FBPASE: fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HS: heat stress; HSF: heat shock factor; HSFA2: heat shock factor A2; HSP: heat shock protein; HSP90: heat shock protein 90; LC-MS/MS: Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; NBR1: next-to-BRCA1; PQC: protein quality control; RFP: red fluorescent protein; ROF1: rotamase FKBP1; TF: transcription factor; TUB: tubulin; UBA: ubiquitin-associated; YFP: yellow fluorescent protein.
PXD019917	32968076	Genetic screens reveal a central role for heme metabolism in artemisinin susceptibility. 	Identification of proteins exhibiting TgDegP2-responsive thermal stability	CETSA, Toxoplasma gondii, artemisinin susceptibility, thermal proteome profiling	Artemisinins have revolutionized the treatment of Plasmodium falciparum malaria; however, resistance threatens to undermine global control efforts. To broadly explore artemisinin susceptibility in apicomplexan parasites, we employ genome-scale CRISPR screens recently developed for Toxoplasma gondii to discover sensitizing and desensitizing mutations. Using a sublethal concentration of dihydroartemisinin (DHA), we uncover the putative transporter Tmem14c whose disruption increases DHA susceptibility. Screens performed under high doses of DHA provide evidence that mitochondrial metabolism can modulate resistance. We show that disrupting a top candidate from the screens, the mitochondrial protease DegP2, lowers porphyrin levels and decreases DHA susceptibility, without significantly altering parasite fitness in culture. Deleting the homologous gene in P. falciparum, PfDegP, similarly lowers heme levels and DHA susceptibility. These results expose the vulnerability of heme metabolism to genetic perturbations that can lead to increased survival in the presence of DHA.
PXD019565	32968259	Light-driven post-translational installation of reactive protein side chains. 	Deposition for: Mild and Chemoselective, Light-Driven Post-translational Editing Allows Installation of Reactive Side-Chains into Proteins	Synthetic protein modification, chemical biology, photocatalysis	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) greatly expand the structures and functions of proteins in nature(1,2). Although synthetic protein functionalization strategies allow mimicry of PTMs(3,4), as well as formation of unnatural protein variants with diverse potential functions, including drug carrying(5), tracking, imaging(6) and partner crosslinking(7), the range of functional groups that can be introduced remains limited. Here we describe the visible-light-driven installation of side chains at dehydroalanine residues in proteins through the formation of carbon-centred radicals that allow C-C bond formation in water. Control of the reaction redox allows site-selective modification with good conversions and reduced protein damage. In situ generation of boronic acid catechol ester derivatives generates RH2C(*) radicals that form the native (beta-CH2-gamma-CH2) linkage of natural residues and PTMs, whereas in situ potentiation of pyridylsulfonyl derivatives by Fe(II) generates RF2C(*) radicals that form equivalent beta-CH2-gamma-CF2 linkages bearing difluoromethylene labels. These reactions are chemically tolerant and incorporate a wide range of functionalities (more than 50 unique residues/side chains) into diverse protein scaffolds and sites. Initiation can be applied chemoselectively in the presence of sensitive groups in the radical precursors, enabling installation of previously incompatible side chains. The resulting protein function and reactivity are used to install radical precursors for homolytic on-protein radical generation; to study enzyme function with natural, unnatural and CF2-labelled post-translationally modified protein substrates via simultaneous sensing of both chemo- and stereoselectivity; and to create generalized 'alkylator proteins' with a spectrum of heterolytic covalent-bond-forming activity (that is, reacting diversely with small molecules at one extreme or selectively with protein targets through good mimicry at the other). Post-translational access to such reactions and chemical groups on proteins could be useful in both revealing and creating protein function.
PXD020116	32969194	Quantitative Proteome of Infant Stenotic Ureters Reveals Extracellular Matrix Organization and Oxidative Stress Dysregulation Underlying Ureteropelvic Junction Obstruction. 	Quantitative Proteome of Infant Stenotic Ureters Reveals Extracellular Matrix Organization and Oxidative Stress Dysregulation Underlying Ureteropelvic Junction Obstruction	congenital hydronephrosis, extracellular matrix, oxidative stress, ureteropelvic junction obstruction	PURPOSE: Ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) is the most frequent cause of congenital hydronephrosis in child. To better investigate the molecular mechanisms of this pathological process, the stenotic ureter proteome of UPJO in infants is compared with their own normal pre-stenotic segments. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Data independent acquisition-based proteomics are performed to compare proteome between pre-stenotic and stenotic ureter from nine UPJO infants. Gene ontology analysis, hierarchical cluster analysis, and network interaction are performed to characterize biological functions of significantly altered proteins. Selected significantly altered proteins are validated by western blot on another three UPJO infants. RESULTS: 15 proteins are up-regulated and 33 proteins are down-regulated during stenotic pathology. Significantly altered proteins are involved in decreased extracellular matrix and cytoskeleton organization, increased regulation of oxidative activity, and altered inflammatory associated exocytosis. Significant expression of biglycan, fibulin-1, myosin-10, cytochrome b5 are validated providing possible mechanism in UPJO which could be associated impaired smooth muscle cell, epithelial integrity, and increased oxidative stress. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study provides molecular evidence of dysregulated extracellular matrix organization, impaired smooth muscle cell, and oxidative stress during UPJO pathology, indicating that biglycan, fibulin-1, myosin-10, cytochrome b5 might reflect the pathology of UPJO.
PXD014936	32969598	Bi-allelic pathogenic variants in NDUFC2 cause early-onset Leigh syndrome and stalled biogenesis of complex I. 	Complexome profiling of mitochondrial protein complexes from patients with mutation in NDUFC2 gene	complex I assembly, complexome profiling, oxidative phosphorylation system	Leigh syndrome is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, most commonly observed in paediatric mitochondrial disease, and is often associated with pathogenic variants in complex I structural subunits or assembly factors resulting in isolated respiratory chain complex I deficiency. Clinical heterogeneity has been reported, but key diagnostic findings are developmental regression, elevated lactate and characteristic neuroimaging abnormalities. Here, we describe three affected children from two unrelated families who presented with Leigh syndrome due to homozygous variants (c.346_*7del and c.173A>T p.His58Leu) in NDUFC2, encoding a complex I subunit. Biochemical and functional investigation of subjects' fibroblasts confirmed a severe defect in complex I activity, subunit expression and assembly. Lentiviral transduction of subjects' fibroblasts with wild-type NDUFC2 cDNA increased complex I assembly supporting the association of the identified NDUFC2 variants with mitochondrial pathology. Complexome profiling confirmed a loss of NDUFC2 and defective complex I assembly, revealing aberrant assembly intermediates suggestive of stalled biogenesis of the complex I holoenzyme and indicating a crucial role for NDUFC2 in the assembly of the membrane arm of complex I, particularly the ND2 module.
PXD016669	32970414	Beyond Target-Decoy Competition: Stable Validation of Peptide and Protein Identifications in Mass Spectrometry-Based Discovery Proteomics. 	Beyond target-decoy competition: stable validation of peptide and protein identifications in mass spectrometry-based discovery proteomics	Benjamini-Hochberg procedure, bottom-up discovery proteomics, false discovery rate, peptide-spectrum match, target decoy competition	In bottom-up discovery proteomics, target-decoy competition (TDC) is the most popular method for false discovery rate (FDR) control. Despite unquestionable statistical foundations, this method has drawbacks, including its hitherto unknown intrinsic lack of stability vis-a-vis practical conditions of application. Although some consequences of this instability have already been empirically described, they may have been misinterpreted. This article provides evidence that TDC has become less reliable as the accuracy of modern mass spectrometers improved. We therefore propose to replace TDC by a totally different method to control the FDR at the spectrum, peptide, and protein levels, while benefiting from the theoretical guarantees of the Benjamini-Hochberg framework. As this method is simpler to use, faster to compute, and more stable than TDC, we argue that it is better adapted to the standardization and throughput constraints of current proteomic platforms.
PXD019534	32970932	Phosphoproteomic Effects of Acute Depletion of PP2A Regulatory Subunit Cdc55. 	Phosphoproteomic Effects of Acute Depletion of PP2A Regulatory Subunit Cdc55	PP2A, PRM, degron, protein phosphatase, targeted MS	Protein phosphatase regulatory subunits are increasingly recognized as promising drug targets. In the absence of an existing drug, inducible degradation provides a means of predicting candidate targets. Here auxin-inducible degradation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae PP2A regulatory subunit Cdc55 in combination with quantitative phosphoproteomics is employed. A prevalence of hyperphosphorylated phosphopeptides indicates that the approach successfully identified direct PP2A(Cdc55) targets. PRM follow up of data-dependent acquisition results confirmed that vacuolar amino acid transporters are among the proteins most strongly affected by Cdc55 depletion.
PXD020622	32973141	ATR is essential for preservation of cell mechanics and nuclear integrity during interstitial migration. 	ATR interactome in  Homo sapiens bone osteosarcoma  U2OS cells	interactome ATR   U2OS cells	ATR responds to mechanical stress at the nuclear envelope and mediates envelope-associated repair of aberrant topological DNA states. By combining microscopy, electron microscopic analysis, biophysical and in vivo models, we report that ATR-defective cells exhibit altered nuclear plasticity and YAP delocalization. When subjected to mechanical stress or undergoing interstitial migration, ATR-defective nuclei collapse accumulating nuclear envelope ruptures and perinuclear cGAS, which indicate loss of nuclear envelope integrity, and aberrant perinuclear chromatin status. ATR-defective cells also are defective in neuronal migration during development and in metastatic dissemination from circulating tumor cells. Our findings indicate that ATR ensures mechanical coupling of the cytoskeleton to the nuclear envelope and accompanying regulation of envelope-chromosome association. Thus the repertoire of ATR-regulated biological processes extends well beyond its canonical role in triggering biochemical implementation of the DNA damage response.
PXD016334	32973148	Cross-regulation of viral kinases with cyclin A secures shutoff of host DNA synthesis. 	Cross-regulation of viral kinases with cyclin A secures shutoff of host DNA synthesis	EBV, HCMV, HSV-1, MCMV, conserved herpesvirus protein kinases	Herpesviruses encode conserved protein kinases (CHPKs) to stimulate phosphorylation-sensitive processes during infection. How CHPKs bind to cellular factors and how this impacts their regulatory functions is poorly understood. Here, we use quantitative proteomics to determine cellular interaction partners of human herpesvirus (HHV) CHPKs. We find that CHPKs can target key regulators of transcription and replication. The interaction with Cyclin A and associated factors is identified as a signature of beta-herpesvirus kinases. Cyclin A is recruited via RXL motifs that overlap with nuclear localization signals (NLS) in the non-catalytic N termini. This architecture is conserved in HHV6, HHV7 and rodent cytomegaloviruses. Cyclin A binding competes with NLS function, enabling dynamic changes in CHPK localization and substrate phosphorylation. The cytomegalovirus kinase M97 sequesters Cyclin A in the cytosol, which is essential for viral inhibition of cellular replication. Our data highlight a fine-tuned and physiologically important interplay between a cellular cyclin and viral kinases.
PXD021016	32973183	MFSD7C switches mitochondrial ATP synthesis to thermogenesis in response to heme. 	Murine alveolar macrophage cell line MH-S was transduced with lentivirus expressing GFP alone or GFP plus murine MFSD7C tagged with Myc and FLAG epitopes.	Alveolar macropahge, Human Proteome Project, MFSD7C, Mitochondria (HPP), Murine, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	ATP synthesis and thermogenesis are two critical outputs of mitochondrial respiration. How these outputs are regulated to balance the cellular requirement for energy and heat is largely unknown. Here we show that major facilitator superfamily domain containing 7C (MFSD7C) uncouples mitochondrial respiration to switch ATP synthesis to thermogenesis in response to heme. When heme levels are low, MSFD7C promotes ATP synthesis by interacting with components of the electron transport chain (ETC) complexes III, IV, and V, and destabilizing sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase 2b (SERCA2b). Upon heme binding to the N-terminal domain, MFSD7C dissociates from ETC components and SERCA2b, resulting in SERCA2b stabilization and thermogenesis. The heme-regulated switch between ATP synthesis and thermogenesis enables cells to match outputs of mitochondrial respiration to their metabolic state and nutrient supply, and represents a cell intrinsic mechanism to regulate mitochondrial energy metabolism.
PXD018100	32973189	Yeast Ppz1 protein phosphatase toxicity involves the alteration of multiple cellular targets. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic changes upon overexpression of S. cerevisiae Ppz1 protein phosphatase	ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, S. cerevisiae, antifungal target, benchmarking, machine learning, phosphatase	Control of the protein phosphorylation status is a major mechanism for regulation of cellular processes, and its alteration often lead to functional disorders. Ppz1, a protein phosphatase only found in fungi, is the most toxic protein when overexpressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To investigate the molecular basis of this phenomenon, we carried out combined genome-wide transcriptomic and phosphoproteomic analyses. We have found that Ppz1 overexpression causes major changes in gene expression, affecting ~ 20% of the genome, together with oxidative stress and increase in total adenylate pools. Concurrently, we observe changes in the phosphorylation pattern of near 400 proteins (mainly dephosphorylated), including many proteins involved in mitotic cell cycle and bud emergence, rapid dephosphorylation of Snf1 and its downstream transcription factor Mig1, and phosphorylation of Hog1 and its downstream transcription factor Sko1. Deletion of HOG1 attenuates the growth defect of Ppz1-overexpressing cells, while that of SKO1 aggravates it. Our results demonstrate that Ppz1 overexpression has a widespread impact in the yeast cells and reveals new aspects of the regulation of the cell cycle.
PXD018827	32973493	Treatment With Medicinal Mushroom Extract Mixture Inhibits Translation and Reprograms Metabolism in Advanced Colorectal Cancer Animal Model as Evidenced by Tandem Mass Tags Proteomics Analysis. 	Proteomic investigation of treatment with medicinal mushroom supplement Agarikon.1 in advanced colorectal cancer animal model	Agarikon, Balb/c mice, TMT, advanced colorectal cancer, animal model, medicinal mushroom supplement	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most frequent cancer type in both males and females, with about 35% of patients being diagnosed in stage IV metastatic disease. Despite advancements in treatment, life expectancy in patients with metastatic disease is still not satisfying. Due to frequent drug resistance during conventional and targeted cancer treatments, the development and testing of multi-target therapies is an important research field. Medicinal mushrooms specific isolated compounds as well as complex extract mixtures have been studied in depth, and many mushroom species have been proven to be non-toxic multi-target inhibitors of specific oncogenic pathways, as well as potent immunomodulators. In this study, we have performed a tandem mass tags qualitative and quantitative proteomic analyses of CT26.WT colon cancer tumor tissues from Balb/c mice treated with the studied medicinal mushroom extract mixture, with or without 5-fluorouracil. Besides significantly improved survival, obtained results reveal that Agarikon.1 alone, and in combination with 5-fluorouracil exert their anticancer effects by affecting several fundamental processes important in CRC progression. Bioinformatic analysis of up- and downregulated proteins revealed that ribosomal biogenesis and translation is downregulated in treatment groups, while the unfolded protein response (UPR), lipid metabolism and tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) are upregulated. Moreover, we found that many known clinical biomarkers and protein clusters important in CRC progression and prognosis are affected, which are a good basis for an expanded translational study of the herein presented treatment.
PXD018819	32973653	The Proteome and Secretome of Cortical Brain Cells Infected With Herpes Simplex Virus. 	Herpes simplex virus  infections of cortical brain cells:  the proteome and secretome of the host	ArfGap1, HSV-1, Herpes simplex virus-1, Nek7, Rab GTPases, encephalitis, glutathione, inflammasome, semaphorin	Infections of the brain with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) cause life-threatening Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) characterized by viral replication in neurons and neuro-inflammation including an infiltration of peripheral immune cells. HSV-1 reprograms host cells to foster its own replication and for immune evasion, but eventually the immune responses clear the infection in most patients. However, many survivors suffer from long-term neuronal damage and cannot regenerate all brain functions. HSV-1 influences the physiology of neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia, and significantly changes their protein expression and secretion pattern. To characterize temporal changes upon HSV-1 infection in detail, we inoculated mixed primary cultures of the murine brain cortex, and performed quantitative mass spectrometry analyses of the cell-associated proteome and the secretome. We identified 28 differentially regulated host proteins influencing inflammasome formation and intracellular vesicle trafficking during endocytosis and secretion. The NIMA-related kinase 7 (NEK7), a critical component of the inflammasome, and ArfGap1, a regulator of endocytosis, were significantly up-regulated upon HSV-1 infection. In the secretome, we identified 71 proteins including guidance cues regulating axonal regeneration, such as semaphorin6D, which were enriched in the conditioned media of HSV-1 infected cells. Modulation of inflammasome activity and intracellular membrane traffic are critical for HSV-1 cell entry, virus assembly, and intracellular spread. Our proteome analysis provides first clues on host factors that might dampen the inflammasome response and modulate intracellular vesicle transport to promote HSV infection of the brain. Furthermore, our secretome analysis revealed a set of proteins involved in neuroregeneration that might foster neuronal repair processes to restore brain functions after clearance of an HSV-1 infection.
PXD017005	32973837	Combined Proteome and Transcriptome Analysis of Heat-Primed Azalea Reveals New Insights Into Plant Heat Acclimation Memory. 	Rhododendron hainanense SWATH-MS	Azalea, leaf	Plants can obtain superinduction of defense against unpredictable challenges based on prior acclimation, but the mechanisms involved in the acclimation memory are little known. The objective of this study was to characterize mechanisms of heat acclimation memory in Rhododendron hainanense, a thermotolerant wild species of azalea. Pretreatment of a 2-d recovery (25/18degreesC, day/night) after heat acclimation (37degreesC, 1 h) (AR-pt) did not weaken but enhanced acquired thermotolerance in R. hainanense with less damaged phenotype, net photosynthetic rate, and membrane stability than non-acclimation pretreated (NA-pt) plants. Combined transcriptome and proteome analysis revealed that a lot of heat-responsive genes still maintained high protein abundance rather than transcript level after the 2-d recovery. Photosynthesis-related genes were highly enriched and most decreased under heat stress (HS: 42degreesC, 1 h) with a less degree in AR-pt plants compared to NA-pt. Sustainably accumulated chloroplast-localized heat shock proteins (HSPs), Rubisco activase 1 (RCA1), beta-subunit of chaperonin-60 (CPN60beta), and plastid transcriptionally active chromosome 5 (pTAC5) in the recovery period probably provided equipped protection of AR-pt plants against the subsequent HS, with less damaged photochemical efficiency and chloroplast structure. In addition, significant higher levels of RCA1 transcripts in AR-pt compared to NA-pt plants in early stage of HS showed a more important role of RCA1 than other chaperonins in heat acclimation memory. The novel heat-induced RCA1, rather than constitutively expressed RCA2 and RCA3, showed excellent thermostability after long-term HS (LHS: 42/35degreesC, 7 d) and maintained balanced Rubisco activation state in photosynthetic acclimation. This study provides new insights into plant heat acclimation memory and indicates candidate genes for genetic modification and molecular breeding in thermotolerance improvement.
PXD020642	32973842	H2S Regulation of Metabolism in Cucumber in Response to Salt-Stress Through Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis. 	H2S regulation the metabolism of cucumber in response to salt-stress through transcriptome and proteome analysis	Cucumis sativus L., Hydrogen sulfide, Salt stress, Transcriptomic	In a previous study, we found that H2S alleviates salinity stress in cucumber by maintaining the Na(+)/K(+) balance and by regulating H2S metabolism and the oxidative stress response. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms behind H2S-regulated salt-stress tolerance in cucumber. Here, an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis based on RNA-seq and 2-DE was used to investigate the global mechanism underlying H2S-regulated salt-stress tolerance. In total, 11,761 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 61 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified. Analysis of the pathways associated with the DEGs showed that salt stress enriched expression of genes in primary and energy metabolism, such as photosynthesis, carbon metabolism and biosynthesis of amino acids. Application of H2S significantly decreased these DEGs but enriched DEGs related to plant-pathogen interaction, sulfur-containing metabolism, cell defense, and signal transduction pathways. Notably, changes related to sulfur-containing metabolism and cell defense were also observed through proteome analysis, such as Cysteine synthase 1, Glutathione S-transferase U25-like, Protein disulfide-isomerase, and Peroxidase 2. We present the first global analysis of the mechanism underlying H2S regulation of salt-stress tolerance in cucumber through tracking changes in the expression of specific proteins and genes.
PXD019758	32973845	Proteomic Studies to Understand the Mechanisms of Peach Tissue Degradation by Monilinia laxa. 	Connecting exoproteome content and Monilinia laxa virulence	Brown rot, Monilinia laxa, exoproteome, necrotrophic fungi, pathogenesis	Monilinia laxa is a necrotrophic plant pathogen able to infect and produce substantial losses on stone fruit. Three different isolates of M. laxa were characterized according to their aggressiveness on nectarines. M. laxa 8L isolate was the most aggressive on fruit, 33L isolate displayed intermediated virulence level, and 5L was classified as a weak aggressive isolate. Nectarine colonization process by the weak isolate 5L was strongly delayed. nLC-MS/MS proteomic studies using in vitro peach cultures provided data on exoproteomes of the three isolates at equivalent stages of brown rot colonization; 3 days for 8L and 33L, and 7 days for 5L. A total of 181 proteins were identified from 8L exoproteome and 289 proteins from 33L at 3 dpi, and 206 proteins were identified in 5L exoproteome at 7 dpi. Although an elevated number of proteins lacked a predicted function, the vast majority of proteins belong to OG group "metabolism", composed of categories such as "carbohydrate transport and metabolism" in 5L, and "energy production and conversion" most represented in 8L and 33L. Among identified proteins, 157 that carried a signal peptide were further examined and classified. Carbohydrate-active enzymes and peptidases were the main groups revealing different protein alternatives with the same function among isolates. Our data suggested a subset of secreted proteins as possible markers of differential virulence in more aggressive isolates, MlPG1 MlPME3, NEP-like, or endoglucanase proteins. A core-exoproteome among isolates independently of their virulence but time-dependent was also described. This core included several well-known virulence factors involved in host-tissue factors like cutinase, pectin lyases, and acid proteases. The secretion patterns supported the assumption that M. laxa deploys an extensive repertoire of proteins to facilitate the host infection and colonization and provided information for further characterization of M. laxa pathogenesis.
PXD019347	32974014	The conversion of formate into purines stimulates mTORC1 leading to CAD-dependent activation of pyrimidine synthesis. 	Formate-induced phospho-signalling	Cancer, Formate, MS, Metabolism, Phosphoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, benchmarking, immunopeptidomics, machine learning	BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial serine catabolism to formate induces a metabolic switch to a hypermetabolic state with high rates of glycolysis, purine synthesis and pyrimidine synthesis. While formate is a purine precursor, it is not clear how formate induces pyrimidine synthesis. METHODS: Here we combine phospho-proteome and metabolic profiling to determine how formate induces pyrimidine synthesis. RESULTS: We discover that formate induces phosphorylation of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (CAD), which is known to increase CAD enzymatic activity. Mechanistically, formate induces mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) activity as quantified by phosphorylation of its targets S6, 4E-BP1, S6K1 and CAD. Treatment with the allosteric mTORC1 inhibitor rapamycin abrogates CAD phosphorylation and pyrimidine synthesis induced by formate. Furthermore, we show that the formate-dependent induction of mTOR signalling and CAD phosphorylation is dependent on an increase in purine synthesis. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that formate activates mTORC1 and induces pyrimidine synthesis via the mTORC1-dependent phosphorylation of CAD.
PXD014853	32974197	Comprehending Meningioma Signaling Cascades Using Multipronged Proteomics Approaches & Targeted Validation of Potential Markers. 	Mining Meningioma Proteomics Alterations Using IP MS	Human Immunoprecipitation MS-MS	Meningiomas are one of the most prevalent primary brain tumors. Our study aims to obtain mechanistic insights of meningioma pathobiology using mass spectrometry-based label-free quantitative proteome analysis to identifying druggable targets and perturbed pathways for therapeutic intervention. Label-free based proteomics study was done from peptide samples of 21 patients and 8 non-tumor controls which were followed up with Phosphoproteomics to identify the kinases and phosphorylated components of the perturbed pathways. In silico approaches revealed perturbations in extracellular matrix remodeling and associated cascades. To assess the extent of influence of Integrin and PI3K-Akt pathways, we used an Integrin Linked Kinase inhibitor on patient-derived meningioma cell line and performed a transcriptomic analysis of the components. Furthermore, we designed a Targeted proteomics assay which to the best of our knowledge for very first-time enables identification of peptides from 54 meningioma patients via SRM assay to validate the key proteins emerging from our study. This resulted in the identification of peptides from CLIC1, ES8L2, and AHNK many of which are receptors and kinases and are difficult to be characterized using conventional approaches. Furthermore, we were also able to monitor transitions for proteins like NEK9 and CKAP4 which have been reported to be associated with meningioma pathobiology. We believe, this study can aid in designing peptide-based validation assays for meningioma patients as well as IHC studies for clinical applications.
PXD018172	32974652	Structural basis for DNA recognition and allosteric control of the retinoic acid receptors RAR-RXR. 	Structural basis for DNA recognition and allosteric control of the Retinoic Acid Receptors RAR-RXR	HDX, HDX-MS, Nuclear receptors, structural MS	Retinoic acid receptors (RARs) as a functional heterodimer with retinoid X receptors (RXRs), bind a diverse series of RA-response elements (RAREs) in regulated genes. Among them, the non-canonical DR0 elements are bound by RXR-RAR with comparable affinities to DR5 elements but DR0 elements do not act transcriptionally as independent RAREs. In this work, we present structural insights for the recognition of DR5 and DR0 elements by RXR-RAR heterodimer using x-ray crystallography, small angle x-ray scattering, and hydrogen/deuterium exchange coupled to mass spectrometry. We solved the crystal structures of RXR-RAR DNA-binding domain in complex with the Rarb2 DR5 and RXR-RXR DNA-binding domain in complex with Hoxb13 DR0. While cooperative binding was observed on DR5, the two molecules bound non-cooperatively on DR0 on opposite sides of the DNA. In addition, our data unveil the structural organization and dynamics of the multi-domain RXR-RAR DNA complexes providing evidence for DNA-dependent allosteric communication between domains. Differential binding modes between DR0 and DR5 were observed leading to differences in conformation and structural dynamics of the multi-domain RXR-RAR DNA complexes. These results reveal that the topological organization of the RAR binding element confer regulatory information by modulating the overall topology and structural dynamics of the RXR-RAR heterodimers.
PXD012477	32974878	Protein signatures from blood plasma and urine suggest changes in vascular function and IL-12 signaling in elderly with a history of chronic diseases compared with an age-matched healthy cohort. 	Proteomic analyses of urine for healty ageing study	FASP, ageing, biomarker, urine	Key processes characterizing human aging are immunosenescence and inflammaging. The capacity of the immune system to adequately respond to external perturbations (e.g., pathogens, injuries, and biochemical irritants) and to repair somatic mutations that may cause cancers or cellular senescence declines. An important goal remains to identify genetic or biochemical, predictive biomarkers for healthy aging. We recruited two cohorts in the age range 70 to 82, one afflicted by chronic illnesses (non-healthy aging, NHA) and the other in good health (healthy aging, HA). NHA criteria included major cardiovascular, neurodegenerative, and chronic pulmonary diseases, diabetes, and cancers. Quantitative analysis of forty proinflammatory cytokines in blood plasma and more than 500 proteins in urine was performed to identify candidate biomarkers for and biological pathway implications of healthy aging. Nine cytokines revealed lower quantities in blood plasma for the NHA compared with the HA groups (fold change > 1.5; p value < 0.025) including IL-12p40 and IL-12p70. We note that, sampling at two timepoints, intra-individual cytokine abundance patterns clustered in 86% of all 60 cases, indicative of person-specific, highly controlled multi-cytokine signatures in blood plasma. Twenty-three urinary proteins were differentially abundant (HA versus NHA; fold change > 1.5; p value < 0.01). Among the proteins increased in abundance in the HA cohort were glycoprotein MUC18, ephrin type-B receptor 4, matrix remodeling-associated protein 8, angiopoietin-related protein 2, K-cadherin, and plasma protease C1 inhibitor. These proteins have been linked to the extracellular matrix, cell adhesion, and vascular remodeling and repair processes. In silico network analysis identified the regulation of coagulation, antimicrobial humoral immune responses, and the IL-12 signaling pathway as enriched GO terms. To validate links of these preliminary biomarkers and IL-12 signaling with healthy aging, clinical studies using larger cohorts and functional characterization of the genes/proteins in cellular models of aging need to be conducted.
PXD019379	32975123	PulseDIA: Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry Using Multi-Injection Pulsed Gas-Phase Fractionation. 	PulseDIA: data independent acquisition  mass spectrometry using pulsed multi-injection gas phase frac-tionation	DIA, GPF, PulseDIA	The performance of data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry (MS) depends on the separation efficiency of peptide precursors. In Orbitrap-based mass spectrometers, separation efficiency of peptide precursors is limited by the relatively slow scanning rate compared to time of flight (TOF)-based MS. Here, we present PulseDIA, a multi-injection gas-phase fractionation (GPF) strategy for enhanced DIA-MS. This is achieved by equally dividing the conventional DIA analysis covering the entire mass range into multiple injections for DIA analyses with complementary windows. Using mouse liver digests, the PulseDIA method identified up to 50% more peptides and 29% more protein groups than that by conventional DIA with the same length of effective gradient time. Compared to conventional multi-injection GPF, PusleDIA exhibited higher flexibility and identified up to 18% more peptides and 8% more protein groups using two injections. The gain of peptides per effective time unit was the highest in PulseDIA compared to conventional DIA and GPF. We further applied the PulseDIA method to profile the proteome of 18 human tissue samples (benign and malignant) from nine cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) patients. PulseDIA identified 7796 protein groups in these CCA samples, with a 14% increase of protein group identification compared to the conventional DIA method. The missing value for protein matrix dropped by 7% using PulseDIA compared to DIA. A total of 681 significantly altered proteins were detected in CCA samples using PulseDIA, including several dysregulated proteins, which were absent in the conventional DIA analysis. Taken together, we present PulseDIA as an enhanced DIA-MS method with improved sensitivity and reproducibility.
PXD019882	32975518	Molecular basis for substrate specificity of the Phactr1/PP1 phosphatase holoenzyme. 	Phactr1/PP1 phosphatase substrates in mouse primary neurons	Phactr1, neurons, phosphatase	PPP-family phosphatases such as PP1 have little intrinsic specificity. Cofactors can target PP1 to substrates or subcellular locations, but it remains unclear how they might confer sequence-specificity on PP1. The cytoskeletal regulator Phactr1 is a neuronally enriched PP1 cofactor that is controlled by G-actin. Structural analysis showed that Phactr1 binding remodels PP1's hydrophobic groove, creating a new composite surface adjacent to the catalytic site. Using phosphoproteomics, we identified mouse fibroblast and neuronal Phactr1/PP1 substrates, which include cytoskeletal components and regulators. We determined high-resolution structures of Phactr1/PP1 bound to the dephosphorylated forms of its substrates IRSp53 and spectrin alphaII. Inversion of the phosphate in these holoenzyme-product complexes supports the proposed PPP-family catalytic mechanism. Substrate sequences C-terminal to the dephosphorylation site make intimate contacts with the composite Phactr1/PP1 surface, which are required for efficient dephosphorylation. Sequence specificity explains why Phactr1/PP1 exhibits orders-of-magnitude enhanced reactivity towards its substrates, compared to apo-PP1 or other PP1 holoenzymes.
PXD018114	32975947	Molecular Characterization of the Coproduced Extracellular Vesicles in HEK293 during Virus-Like Particle Production. 	Characterization of HEK293 secretome by LC-MS/MS	Exosomes, HIV, VLP, immunomodulation, microvesicles, separation downstream processes	Vaccine therapies based on virus-like particles (VLPs) are currently in the spotlight due to their potential for generating high immunogenic responses while presenting fewer side effects than conventional vaccines. These self-assembled nanostructures resemble the native conformation of the virus but lack genetic material. They are becoming a promising platform for vaccine candidates against several diseases due to the ability of modifying their membrane with antigens from different viruses. The coproduction of extracellular vesicles (EVs) when producing VLPs is a key phenomenon currently still under study. In order to characterize this extracellular environment, a quantitative proteomics approach has been carried out. Three conditions were studied: non-transfected, transfected with an empty plasmid as control, and transfected with a plasmid coding for HIV-1 Gag polyprotein. A shift in EV biogenesis has been detected upon transfection, changing the production from large to small EVs. Another remarkable trait found was the presence of DNA being secreted within vesicles smaller than 200 nm. Studying the protein profile of these biological nanocarriers, it was observed that EVs were reflecting an overall energy homeostasis disruption via mitochondrial protein deregulation. Also, immunomodulatory proteins like ITGB1, ENO3, and PRDX5 were identified and quantified in VLP and EV fractions. These findings provide insight on the nature of the VLP extracellular environment defining the characteristics and protein profile of EVs, with potential to develop new downstream separation strategies or using them as adjuvants in viral therapies.
PXD018140	32976891	Pharmacological and phosphoproteomic approaches to roles of protein kinase C in kappa opioid receptor-mediated effects in mice. 	Pharmacological and Phosphoproteomic Approaches to Roles of Protein Kinase C in Kappa Opioid Receptor-Mediated Effects in Mice	PKC, Phosphoproteomic, brain, kappa opioid receptor	Kappa opioid receptor (KOR) agonists possess adverse dysphoric and psychotomimetic effects, thus limiting their applications as non-addictive anti-pruritic and analgesic agents. Here, we showed that protein kinase C (PKC) inhibition preserved the beneficial antinociceptive and antipruritic effects of KOR agonists, but attenuated the adverse condition placed aversion (CPA), sedation, and motor incoordination in mice. Using a large-scale mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics of KOR-mediated signaling in the mouse brain, we observed PKC-dependent modulation of G protein-coupled receptor kinases and Wnt pathways at 5 min; stress signaling, cytoskeleton, mTOR signaling and receptor phosphorylation, including cannabinoid receptor CB1 at 30 min. We further demonstrated that inhibition of CB1 attenuated KOR-mediated CPA. Our results demonstrated the feasibility of in vivo biochemical dissection of signaling pathways that lead to side effects.
PXD016149	32978159	GADD34 is a modulator of autophagy during starvation. 	TFEB regulates protein synthesis to sustain autophagy during starvation	Human HEK293	Cells respond to starvation by shutting down protein synthesis and by activating catabolic processes, including autophagy, to recycle nutrients. This two-pronged response is mediated by the integrated stress response (ISR) through phosphorylation of eIF2alpha, which represses protein translation, and by inhibition of mTORC1 signaling, which promotes autophagy also through a stress-responsive transcriptional program. Implementation of such a program, however, requires protein synthesis, thus conflicting with general repression of translation. How is this mismatch resolved? We found that the main regulator of the starvation-induced transcriptional program, TFEB, counteracts protein synthesis inhibition by directly activating expression of GADD34, a component of the protein phosphatase 1 complex that dephosphorylates eIF2alpha. We discovered that GADD34 plays an essential role in autophagy by tuning translation during starvation, thus enabling lysosomal biogenesis and a sustained autophagic flux. Hence, the TFEB-GADD34 axis integrates the mTORC1 and ISR pathways in response to starvation.
PXD012286	32978168	A Circle RNA Regulatory Axis Promotes Lung Squamous Metastasis via CDR1-Mediated Regulation of Golgi Trafficking. 	A microRNA/circle RNA axis promotes metastasis through CDR1-mediated anoikis-resistance	CDR1, Cancer, Lung, Squamous	Lung squamous carcinoma (LUSC) is a highly metastatic disease with a poor prognosis. Using an integrated screening approach, we found that miR-671-5p reduces LUSC metastasis by inhibiting a circular RNA (circRNA), CDR1as. Although the putative function of circRNA is through miRNA sponging, we found that miR-671-5p more potently silenced an axis of CDR1as and its antisense transcript, cerebellar degeneration related protein 1 (CDR1). Silencing of CDR1as or CDR1 significantly inhibited LUSC metastases and CDR1 was sufficient to promote migration and metastases. CDR1, which directly interacted with adaptor protein 1 (AP1) complex subunits and coatomer protein I (COPI) proteins, no longer promoted migration upon blockade of Golgi trafficking. Therapeutic inhibition of the CDR1as/CDR1 axis with miR-671-5p mimics reduced metastasis in vivo. This report demonstrates a novel role for CDR1 in promoting metastasis and Golgi trafficking. These findings reveal an miRNA/circRNA axis that regulates LUSC metastases through a previously unstudied protein, CDR1. SIGNIFICANCE: This study shows that circRNA, CDR1as, promotes lung squamous migration, metastasis, and Golgi trafficking through its complimentary transcript, CDR1.
PXD016978	32978390	The atypical chemokine receptor 3 interacts with Connexin 43 inhibiting astrocytic gap junctional intercellular communication. 	Stimulation of the atypical chemokine receptor 3 inhibits connexin 43 gap junctional intercellular communication	ACKR3, Cx43, HEK293T, chemiokines	The atypical chemokine receptor 3 (ACKR3) plays a pivotal role in directing the migration of various cellular populations and its over-expression in tumors promotes cell proliferation and invasiveness. The intracellular signaling pathways transducing ACKR3-dependent effects remain poorly characterized, an issue we addressed by identifying the interactome of ACKR3. Here, we report that recombinant ACKR3 expressed in HEK293T cells recruits the gap junction protein Connexin 43 (Cx43). Cx43 and ACKR3 are co-expressed in mouse brain astrocytes and human glioblastoma cells and form a complex in embryonic mouse brain. Functional in vitro studies show enhanced ACKR3 interaction with Cx43 upon ACKR3 agonist stimulation. Furthermore, ACKR3 activation promotes beta-arrestin2- and dynamin-dependent Cx43 internalization to inhibit gap junctional intercellular communication in primary astrocytes. These results demonstrate a functional link between ACKR3 and gap junctions that might be of pathophysiological relevance.
PXD015476	32978391	Yeast homologs of human MCUR1 regulate mitochondrial proline metabolism. 	Yeast homologs of MCUR1 regulate mitochondrial proline metabolism	MCUR1, mitochondrion, proline metabolism	Mitochondria house evolutionarily conserved pathways of carbon and nitrogen metabolism that drive cellular energy production. Mitochondrial bioenergetics is regulated by calcium uptake through the mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU), a multi-protein complex whose assembly in the inner mitochondrial membrane is facilitated by the scaffold factor MCUR1. Intriguingly, many fungi that lack MCU contain MCUR1 homologs, suggesting alternate functions. Herein, we characterize Saccharomyces cerevisiae homologs Put6 and Put7 of MCUR1 as regulators of mitochondrial proline metabolism. Put6 and Put7 are tethered to the inner mitochondrial membrane in a large hetero-oligomeric complex, whose abundance is regulated by proline. Loss of this complex perturbs mitochondrial proline homeostasis and cellular redox balance. Yeast cells lacking either Put6 or Put7 exhibit a pronounced defect in proline utilization, which can be corrected by the heterologous expression of human MCUR1. Our work uncovers an unexpected role of MCUR1 homologs in mitochondrial proline metabolism.
PXD019297	32978522	The Greatwall kinase safeguards the genome integrity by affecting the kinome activity in mitosis. 	The Greatwall kinase safeguards the genome integrity by balancing the kinome activity in mitosis.	MASTL, TMT, mitosis, phosphoproteomics	Progression through mitosis is balanced by the timely regulation of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation events ensuring the correct segregation of chromosomes before cytokinesis. This balance is regulated by the opposing actions of CDK1 and PP2A, as well as the Greatwall kinase/MASTL. MASTL is commonly overexpressed in cancer, which makes it a potential therapeutic anticancer target. Loss of Mastl induces multiple chromosomal errors that lead to the accumulation of micronuclei and multilobulated cells in mitosis. Our analyses revealed that loss of Mastl leads to chromosome breaks and abnormalities impairing correct segregation. Phospho-proteomic data for Mastl knockout cells revealed alterations in proteins implicated in multiple processes during mitosis including double-strand DNA damage repair. In silico prediction of the kinases with affected activity unveiled NEK2 to be regulated in the absence of Mastl. We uncovered that, RAD51AP1, involved in regulation of homologous recombination, is phosphorylated by NEK2 and CDK1 but also efficiently dephosphorylated by PP2A/B55. Our results suggest that MastlKO disturbs the equilibrium of the mitotic phosphoproteome that leads to the disruption of DNA damage repair and triggers an accumulation of chromosome breaks even in noncancerous cells.
PXD016161	32979393	Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) administration shifts the hepatic proteome and augments dietary outcomes related to hepatic steatosis in mice. 	Proteomics reveals PFOS-induced alteration of lipid utilization and xenobiotic metabolism in a model of PFOS-augmented diet-induced fatty liver	Liver, NAFLD, PFOS, high fat diet, perfluorinated compounds, weight loss	Hepatic steatosis increases risk of fatty liver and cardiovascular disease. Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) is a persistent, bio-accumulative pollutant that has been used in industrial and commercial applications. PFOS administration induces hepatic steatosis in rodents and increases lipogenic gene expression signatures in cultured hepatocytes. We hypothesized that PFOS treatment interferes with lipid loss when switching from a high fat diet (HFD) to a standard diet (SD), and augments HFD-induced hepatic steatosis. Male C57BL/6 N mice were fed standard chow diet or 60% kCal high-fat diet (HFD) for 4 weeks to increase body weight. Then, some HFD mice were switched to SD and mice were further divided to diet only or diet containing 0.0003% PFOS, for six treatment groups: SD, HFD to SD (H-SD), HFD, SD + PFOS, H-SD + PFOS, or HFD + PFOS. After 10 weeks on study, blood and livers were collected. HFD for 14 weeks increased body weight and hepatic steatosis, whereas H-SD mice returned to SD measures. PFOS administration reduced body weight in mice fed a SD, but not H-SD or HFD. PFOS administration increased liver weight in H-SD + PFOS and HFD + PFOS mice. PFOS increased hepatic steatosis in H-SD and HFD groups. Hepatic mRNA expression and SWATH-MS proteomic analysis revealed that PFOS induced lipid and xenobiotic transporters, as well as metabolism pathways. Overall, the findings herein suggest that PFOS treatment did interfere with lipid loss associated with switch to a SD and similarly augmented hepatic lipid accumulation in mice established on an HFD.
PXD018509	32982747	Systematic Investigation of the Efficacy of Sinitang Decoction Against Ulcerative Colitis. 	The analysis of SNT differential proteins after intervention UC based on proteomics	Differential protein, SNT, UC	The aim of this study was to investigate the precise clinical use of Sinitang decoction (SNT) in ulcerative colitis (UC). Network pharmacology-based analysis of the drug components-targets-diseases-pathways was used to predict the possible clinical applications of SNT. Next, 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) was used to establish a rat model of UC, and the efficacy of SNT against UC was tested, followed by a proteomic analysis of the specific signatures regulated by SNT against UC. SNT was predicted to be effective in inflammatory bowel disease, UC, and several other diseases. In the rats with UC, SNT decreased the disease activity index and colon mucosal damage index compared to the untreated UC model rats. Additionally, SNT reversed the upregulated levels of serum tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), interleukin (IL)-6, and nitric oxide (NO) in UC model rats. The proteomic analysis identified 78 proteins that were differentially regulated by SNT in the rats with UC, which were associated with the Gene Ontology terms sulfur compound binding, calcium ion binding, and Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4 binding. Among these differentially regulated proteins, C-reactive protein (CRP) and collagen alpha-1(XII) chain (COL12A1) were found to be signature proteins associated with the efficacy of SNT against UC. This study represents the first precise investigation of the efficacy and mechanisms of SNT against UC, and shows that SNT is a promising candidate for personalized management of UC.
PXD020011	32983136	Biogenesis of HLA Ligand Presentation in Immune Cells Upon Activation Reveals Changes in Peptide Length Preference. 	Biogenesis of HLA ligand presentation in immune cells upon activation reveals changes in peptide length preference	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Immunopeptidomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP) (B/D-HPP), benchmarking, immune cells, machine learning	Induction of an effective tumor immunity is a complex process that includes the appropriate presentation of the tumor antigens, activation of specific T cells, and the elimination of malignant cells. Potent and efficient T cell activation is dependent on multiple factors, such as timely expression of co-stimulatory molecules, the differentiation state of professional antigen presenting cells (e.g., dendritic cells; DCs), the functionality of the antigen processing and presentation machinery (APPM), and the repertoire of HLA class I and II-bound peptides (termed immunopeptidome) presented to T cells. So far, how molecular perturbations underlying DCs maturation and differentiation affect the in vivo cross-presented HLA class I and II immunopeptidomes is largely unknown. Yet, this knowledge is crucial for further development of DC-based immunotherapy approaches. We applied a state-of-the-art sensitive MS-based immunopeptidomics approach to characterize the naturally presented HLA-I and -II immunopeptidomes eluted from autologous immune cells having distinct functional and biological states including CD14(+) monocytes, immature DC (ImmDC) and mature DC (MaDC) monocyte-derived DCs and naive or activated T and B cells. We revealed a presentation of significantly longer HLA peptides upon activation that is HLA allotype specific. This was apparent in the self-peptidome upon cell activation and in the context of presentation of exogenously loaded antigens, suggesting that peptide length is an important feature with potential implications on the rational design of anti-cancer vaccines.
PXD017118	32983224	Genome-Wide Identification of Dickeya solani Transcriptional Units Up-Regulated in Response to Plant Tissues From a Crop-Host Solanum tuberosum and a Weed-Host Solanum dulcamara. 	Genome-wide identification of Dickeya solani genes regulated in response to potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) and bittersweet nightshade (Solanum dulcamara L.) tissues	FASP, MS/MS, plant extract, protein ID	Dickeya solani is a Gram-negative bacterium able to cause disease symptoms on a variety of crop and ornamental plants worldwide. Weeds including Solanum dulcamara (bittersweet nightshade) growing near agricultural fields have been reported to support populations of soft rot bacteria in natural settings. However, little is known about the specific interaction of D. solani with such weed plants that may contribute to its success as an agricultural pathogen. The aim of this work was to assess the interaction of D. solani with its crop plant (Solanum tuberosum) and an alternative (S. dulcamara) host plant. From a collection of 10,000 Tn5 transposon mutants of D. solani IPO2222 carrying an inducible, promotorless gusA reporter gene, 210 were identified that exhibited plant tissue-dependent expression of the gene/operon into which the Tn5 insertion had occurred. Thirteen Tn5 mutants exhibiting the greatest plant tissue induction of such transcriptional units in S. tuberosum or S. dulcamara as measured by qRT-PCR were assessed for plant host colonization, virulence, and ability to macerate plant tissue, as well as phenotypes likely to contribute to the ecological fitness of D. solani, including growth rate, carbon and nitrogen source utilization, motility, chemotaxis toward plant extracts, biofilm formation, growth under anaerobic conditions and quorum sensing. These 13 transcriptional units encode proteins involved in bacterial interactions with plants, with functions linked to cell envelope structure, chemotaxis and carbon metabolism. The selected 13 genes/operons were differentially expressed in, and thus contributed preferentially to D. solani fitness in potato and/or S. dulcamara stem, leaf, and root tissues.
PXD018577	32984049	Toxicoproteomics Disclose Pesticides as Downregulators of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and Estrogen Receptor Pathways in Breast Cancer Women Chronically Exposed. 	Toxicoproteomic-based screening discloses pivotal downregulated mechanisms triggered by chronic pesticide exposure in breast cancer patients.	LCMS, Toxicoproteomic, breast cancer, pesticide exposure	Deleterious effects have been widely associated with chronic pesticide exposure, including cancer development. In spite of several known consequences that pesticides can trigger in the human body, few is known regarding its impact on breast cancer women that are chronically exposed to such substances during agricultural work lifelong. In this context, the present study performed a high-throughput toxicoproteomic study in association with a bioinformatics-based design to explore new putative processes and pathways deregulated by chronic pesticide exposure in breast cancer patients. To reach this goal, we analyzed comparatively non-depleted plasma samples from exposed (n = 130) and non-occupationally exposed (n = 112) women diagnosed with breast cancer by using a label-free proteomic tool. The list of proteins differentially expressed was explored by bioinformatics and the main pathways and processes further investigated. The toxicoproteomic study revealed that women exposed to pesticides exhibited mainly downregulated events, linked to immune response, coagulation and estrogen-mediated events in relation to the unexposed ones. Further investigation shown that the identified deregulated processes and pathways correlated with significant distinct levels tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin 1 beta in the blood, and specific clinicopathological characteristics pointed out by bioinformatics analysis as adipose-trophic levels, menopause and intratumoral clots formation. Altogether, these findings reinforce pesticides as downregulators of several biological process and highlight that these compounds can be linked to poor prognosis in breast cancer.
PXD018907	32984071	Investigating Non-sterilizing Cure in TB Patients at the End of Successful Anti-TB Therapy. 	Proteomic analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with active TB and at the end of treatment	BAL fluid, Quantitative proteomics, TMT, end of treatment, tuberculosis	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is extremely recalcitrant to antimicrobial chemotherapy requiring 6 months to treat drug-sensitive tuberculosis (TB). Despite this, 4-10% of cured patients will develop recurrent disease within 12 months after completing therapy. Reasons for relapse in cured TB patients remains speculative, attributed to both pathogen and host factors. Populations of dormant bacilli are hypothesized to cause relapse in initially cured TB patients however, development of tests to convincingly demonstrate their presence at the end of anti-TB treatment has been challenging. Previous studies have indicated the utility of culture filtrate supplemented media (CFSM) to detect differentially culturable tubercle bacilli (DCTB). Here, we show that 3/22 of clinically cured patients retained DCTB in induced sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), with one DCTB positive patient relapsing within the first year of completing therapy. We also show a correlation of DCTB status with "unresolved" end of treatment FDG PET-CT imaging. Additionally, 19 end of treatment induced sputum samples from patients not undergoing bronchoscopy were assessed for DCTB, identifying a further relapse case with DCTB. We further show that induced sputum is a less reliable source for the DCTB assay at the end of treatment, limiting the utility of this assay in a clinical setting. We next investigated the host proteome at the site of disease (BALF) using multiplexed proteomic analysis and compared these to active TB cases to identify host-specific factors indicative of cure. Distinct signatures stratified active from cured TB patients into distinct groups, with a DCTB positive, subsequently relapsing, end of treatment patient showing a proteomic signature closer to active TB disease than cure. This exploratory study offers evidence of live Mtb, undetectable with conventional culture methods, at the end of clinically successful treatment and putative host protein biomarkers of active disease and cure. These findings have implications for the assessment of true sterilizing cure in TB patients and opens new avenues for targeted approaches to monitor treatment response.
PXD012868	32984299	IL-36alpha Promoted Wound Induced Hair Follicle Neogenesis via Hair Follicle Stem/Progenitor Cell Proliferation. 	mice,skin, iTRAQ              .	iTRAQ, mice,scar, tissue	BACKGROUND: Wound-induced hair follicle neogenesis (WIHN) is a phenomenon of hair neogenesis that occurs at the center of a scar when the wound area is sufficiently large. Neogenic hair follicles are separated from the pre-existing follicles at the wound edge by a hairless circular region. This WIHN study provides a unique model for developing treatments for hair loss and deciphering the mechanisms underlying organogenesis in adult mammals. METHODS: The skin of a mouse was wounded by excising a 1.5 x 1.5 cm(2) square of full-thickness dorsal skin. iTRAQ technology was used to screen proteins differentially expressed between the inner and outer scar areas in a mouse model of WIHN, on post-wounding day 15, to identify the regulators of WIHN. Owing to the overexpression of interleukin-36alpha (IL-36alpha) in the de novo hair follicle growth area, the regulating effect of IL-36alpha overexpression in WIHN was investigated. Hair follicle stem/progenitor cells were counted by flow cytometry while the expression of hair follicle stem/progenitor cell markers (Lgr5, Lgr6, Lrig1, K15, and CD34) and that of Wnt/beta-catenin and IL-6/STAT3 pathway intermediaries was detected by qPCR and western blotting. RESULTS: We found that wounding induced IL-36alpha expression. Incorporation of recombinant murine IL-36alpha (mrIL-36alpha) into murine skin wounds resulted in a greater number of regenerated hair follicles (p < 0.005) and a faster healing rate. The expression of hair follicle stem/progenitor cell markers was upregulated in the mrIL-36alpha-injected site (p < 0.05). Additionally, mrIL-36alpha upregulated the IL-6/STAT3 pathway intermediaries. CONCLUSION: IL-36alpha is upregulated in de novo hair follicle growth areas and can promote wound epithelialization and WIHN.
PXD018942	32984315	The Cardiac Syndecan-2 Interactome. 	Syndecan-2 partners in rat left ventricular lysates	Syndecan-2, interactome	The extracellular matrix (ECM) is important in cardiac remodeling and syndecans have gained increased interest in this process due to their ability to convert changes in the ECM to cell signaling. In particular, syndecan-4 has been shown to be important for cardiac remodeling, whereas the role of its close relative syndecan-2 is largely unknown in the heart. To get more insight into the role of syndecan-2, we here sought to identify interaction partners of syndecan-2 in rat left ventricle. By using three different affinity purification methods combined with mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, we identified 30 novel partners and 9 partners previously described in the literature, which together make up the first cardiac syndecan-2 interactome. Eleven of the novel partners were also verified in HEK293 cells (i.e., AP2A2, CAVIN2, DDX19A, EIF4E, JPH2, MYL12A, NSF, PFDN2, PSMC5, PSMD11, and RRAD). The cardiac syndecan-2 interactome partners formed connections to each other and grouped into clusters mainly involved in cytoskeletal remodeling and protein metabolism, but also into a cluster consisting of a family of novel syndecan-2 interaction partners, the CAVINs. MS analyses revealed that although syndecan-2 was significantly enriched in fibroblast fractions, most of its partners were present in both cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts. Finally, a comparison of the cardiac syndecan-2 and -4 interactomes revealed surprisingly few protein partners in common.
PXD015226	32985577	Genomic and experimental data provide new insights into luciferin biosynthesis and bioluminescence evolution in fireflies. 	Genetic origin and evolution of bioluminescence of fireflies	Origin and evolution of bioluminescence	Fireflies are among the most charismatic insects for their spectacular bioluminescence, but the origin and evolution of bioluminescence remain elusive. Especially, the genic basis of luciferin (D-luciferin) biosynthesis and light patterns is largely unknown. Here, we present the high-quality reference genomes of two fireflies Lamprigera yunnana (1053 Mb) and Abscondita terminalis (501 Mb) with great differences in both morphology and luminous behavior. We sequenced the transcriptomes and proteomes of luminous organs of two species. We created the CRISPR/Cas9-induced mutants of Abdominal B gene without luminous organs in the larvae of A. terminalis and sequenced the transcriptomes of mutants and wild-types. Combining gene expression analyses with comparative genomics, we propose a more complete luciferin synthesis pathway, and confirm the convergent evolution of bioluminescence in insects. Using experiments, the function of the firefly acyl-CoA thioesterase (ACOT1) to convert L-luciferin to D-luciferin was validated for the first time. Comparisons of three-dimension reconstruction of luminous organs and their differentially expressed genes among two species suggest that two positive genes in the calcium signaling pathway and structural difference of luminous organs may play an important role in the evolution of flash pattern. Altogether, our results provide important resources for further exploring bioluminescence in insects.
PXD020473	32985974	Characterization of the mechanism by which the RB/E2F pathway controls expression of the cancer genomic DNA deaminase APOBEC3B. 	The RB/E2F pathway controls expression of the cancer genomic DNA deaminase APOBEC3B	APOBEC3B, DNA pull-down, SILAC, cancer, polyoma virus T antigen	APOBEC3B (A3B)-catalyzed DNA cytosine deamination contributes to the overall mutational landscape in breast cancer. Molecular mechanisms responsible for A3B upregulation in cancer are poorly understood. Here we show that a single E2F cis-element mediates repression in normal cells and that expression is activated by its mutational disruption in a reporter construct or the endogenous A3B gene. The same E2F site is required for A3B induction by polyomavirus T antigen indicating a shared molecular mechanism. Proteomic and biochemical experiments demonstrate the binding of wildtype but not mutant E2F promoters by repressive PRC1.6/E2F6 and DREAM/E2F4 complexes. Knockdown and overexpression studies confirm the involvement of these repressive complexes in regulating A3B expression. Altogether, these studies demonstrate that A3B expression is suppressed in normal cells by repressive E2F complexes and that viral or mutational disruption of this regulatory network triggers overexpression in breast cancer and provides fuel for tumor evolution.
PXD009843	32986951	Mutation-Specific and Common Phosphotyrosine Signatures of KRAS G12D and G13D Alleles. 	Mutation-specific and common phosphotyrosine signatures of KRAS G12D and G13D alleles	G12D mutation, G13D mutation, KRAS, SW48, phosphoproteome, signaling	KRAS is one of the most frequently mutated genes across all cancer subtypes. Two of the most frequent oncogenic KRAS mutations observed in patients result in glycine to aspartic acid substitution at either codon 12 (G12D) or 13 (G13D). Although the biochemical differences between these two predominant mutations are not fully understood, distinct clinical features of the resulting tumors suggest involvement of disparate signaling mechanisms. When we compared the global phosphotyrosine proteomic profiles of isogenic colorectal cancer cell lines bearing either G12D or G13D KRAS mutation, we observed both shared as well as unique signaling events induced by the two KRAS mutations. Remarkably, while the G12D mutation led to an increase in membrane proximal and adherens junction signaling, the G13D mutation led to activation of signaling molecules such as nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, MAPK kinases, and regulators of metabolic processes. The importance of one of the cell surface molecules, MPZL1, which was found to be hyperphosphorylated in G12D cells, was confirmed by cellular assays as its knockdown led to a decrease in proliferation of G12D but not G13D expressing cells. Overall, our study reveals important signaling differences across two common KRAS mutations and highlights the utility of our approach to systematically dissect subtle differences between related oncogenic mutants and potentially lead to individualized treatments.
PXD020744	32987028	Cell-autonomous hepatocyte-specific GP130 signaling is sufficient to trigger a robust innate immune response in mice. 	Cell-autonomous hepatocyte-specific GP130 signalling alone is sufficient to trigger robust innate immune response in mice	IL-6, acute-phase response, gp130, innate immunity	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Interleukin (IL)-6 cytokine family members contribute to inflammatory and regenerative processes. Engagement of the signaling receptor subunit gp130 is common to almost all members of the family. In the liver, all major cell types respond to IL-6-type cytokines, making it difficult to delineate cell type-specific effects. We therefore generated mouse models for liver cell type-specific analysis of IL-6 signaling. METHODS: We produced mice with a Cre-inducible expression cassette encoding a designed pre-dimerized constitutive active gp130 variant. We bred these mice to different Cre-drivers to induce transgenic gp130 signaling in distinct liver cell types: hepatic stellate cells, cholangiocytes/liver progenitor cells or hepatocytes. We phenotyped these mice using multi-omics approaches, immunophenotyping and a bacterial infection model. RESULTS: Hepatocyte-specific gp130 activation led to the upregulation of innate immune system components, including acute-phase proteins. Consequently, we observed peripheral mobilization and recruitment of myeloid cells to the liver. Hepatic myeloid cells, including liver-resident Kupffer cells were instructed to adopt a bactericidal phenotype which ultimately conferred enhanced resistance to bacterial infection in these mice. We demonstrate that persistent hepatocyte-specific gp130 activation resulted in amyloid A amyloidosis in aged mice. In contrast, we did not observe overt effects of hepatic stellate cell- or cholangiocyte/liver progenitor cell-specific transgenic gp130 signaling. CONCLUSIONS: Hepatocyte-specific gp130 activation alone is sufficient to trigger a robust innate immune response in the absence of NF-kappaB activation. We therefore conclude that gp130 engagement, e.g. by IL-6 trans-signaling, represents a safe-guard mechanism in innate immunity. LAY SUMMARY: Members of the interleukin-6 cytokine family signal via the receptor subunit gp130 and are involved in multiple processes in the liver. However, as several liver cell types respond to interleukin-6 family cytokines, it is difficult to delineate cell type-specific effects. Using a novel mouse model, we provide evidence that hepatocyte-specific gp130 activation is sufficient to trigger a robust systemic innate immune response.
PXD021069	32987274	Matrix reverses immortalization-mediated stem cell fate determination. 	Matrix reverses immortalization-mediated stem cell fate determination	Chondrogenesis, Decellularized extracellular matrix., Infrapatellar fat pad-derived stem cells, Proliferation, Simian virus 40	Primary cell culture in vitro suffers from cellular senescence. We hypothesized that expansion on decellularized extracellular matrix (dECM) deposited by simian virus 40 large T antigen (SV40LT) transduced autologous infrapatellar fat pad stem cells (IPFSCs) could rejuvenate high-passage IPFSCs in both proliferation and chondrogenic differentiation. In the study, we found that SV40LT transduced IPFSCs exhibited increased proliferation and adipogenic potential but decreased chondrogenic potential. Expansion on dECMs deposited by passage 5 IPFSCs yielded IPFSCs with dramatically increased proliferation and chondrogenic differentiation capacity; however, this enhanced capacity diminished if IPFSCs were grown on dECM deposited by passage 15 IPFSCs. Interestingly, expansion on dECM deposited by SV40LT transduced IPFSCs yielded IPFSCs with enhanced proliferation and chondrogenic capacity but decreased adipogenic potential, particularly for the dECM group derived from SV40LT transduced passage 15 cells. Our immunofluorescence staining and proteomics data identify matrix components such as basement membrane proteins as top candidates for matrix mediated IPFSC rejuvenation. Both cell proliferation and differentiation were endorsed by transcripts measured by RNASeq during the process. This study provides a promising model for in-depth investigation of the matrix protein influence on surrounding stem cell differentiation.
PXD021522	32987831	Investigation on Intestinal Proteins and Drug Metabolizing Enzymes in Simulated Microgravity Rats by a Proteomics Method. 	Proteomics of intestine in simulated microgravity rats	simulated microgravity,rat,small intestine	The present study aimed to investigate the change of intestinal mucosa proteins, especially the alteration of intestinal drug metabolizing enzymes (IDMEs) following 14-day simulated microgravity. Morey-Holton tail-suspension analog was used to simulate microgravity. Intestinal mucosa proteins of rats were determined by label-free quantitative proteomic strategy. A total of 335 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified, 190 DEPs were upregulated, and 145 DEPs were downregulated. According to bioinformatic analysis, most of DEPs exhibited hydrolase, oxidoreductase, transferase, ligase, or lyase catalytic activity. DEPs were mainly enriched in metabolic pathways, including metabolism of amino acid, glucose, and carbon. Moreover, 11 of DEPs were involved in exogenous drug and xenobiotics metabolism. Owing to the importance of IDMEs for the efficacy and safety of oral drugs, the expression of cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2), CYP2D1, CYP3A2, CYP2E1, alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (ADH1), and glutathione S-transferase mu 5 (GSTM5) in rat intestine mucosa was determined by Western-blot. The activity of ADH, aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) and GST was evaluated. Compared with control rats, the expression of CYP1A2, CYP2D1, CYP3A2, and ADH1 in the simulated microgravity (SMG) group of rats were dramatically decreased by 33.16%, 21.93%, 48.49%, and 22.83%, respectively. GSTM5 was significantly upregulated by 53.14% and CYP2E1 expression did not show a dramatical change in SMG group rats. Moreover, 14-day SMG reduced ADH activity, while ALDH and GST activities was not altered remarkably. It could be concluded that SMG dramatically affected the expression and activity of some IDMEs, which might alter the efficacy or safety of their substrate drugs under microgravity. The present study provided some preliminary information on IDMEs under microgravity. It revealed the potential effect of SMG on intestinal metabolism, which may be helpful to understand the intestinal health of astronauts and medication use.
PXD017706	32990683	Acarbose has sex-dependent and -independent effects on age-related physical function, cardiac health, and lipid biology. 	Acarbose improves late-life physical function in mice of both sexes, but rejuvenates cardiac structure and lipid profile in males only	Type 2 diabetes, acarbose, age-related disease, data independent acquisition	With an expanding aging population burdened with comorbidities, there is considerable interest in treatments that optimize health in later life. Acarbose (ACA), a drug used clinically to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), can extend mouse life span with greater effect in males than in females. Using a genetically heterogeneous mouse model, we tested the ability of ACA to ameliorate functional, pathological, and biochemical changes that occur during aging, and we determined which of the effects of age and drug were sex dependent. In both sexes, ACA prevented age-dependent loss of body mass, in addition to improving balance/coordination on an accelerating rotarod, rotarod endurance, and grip strength test. Age-related cardiac hypertrophy was seen only in male mice, and this male-specific aging effect was attenuated by ACA. ACA-sensitive cardiac changes were associated with reduced activation of cardiac growth-promoting pathways and increased abundance of peroxisomal proteins involved in lipid metabolism. ACA further ameliorated age-associated changes in cardiac lipid species, particularly lysophospholipids - changes that have previously been associated with aging, cardiac dysfunction, and cardiovascular disease in humans. In the liver, ACA had pronounced effects on lipid handling in both sexes, reducing hepatic lipidosis during aging and shifting the liver lipidome in adulthood, particularly favoring reduced triglyceride (TAG) accumulation. Our results demonstrate that ACA, already in clinical use for T2DM, has broad-ranging antiaging effects in multiple tissues, and it may have the potential to increase physical function and alter lipid biology to preserve or improve health at older ages.
PXD019530	32990725	Molecular determinants of MED1 interaction with the DNA bound VDR-RXR heterodimer. 	Molecular determinant for MED1 interaction with the VDR-RXR heterodimer	HDX-MS, Nuclear receptor, VDR-RXR, XL-MS	The MED1 subunit of the Mediator complex is an essential coactivator of nuclear receptor-mediated transcriptional activation. While structural requirements for ligand-dependent binding of classical coactivator motifs of MED1 to numerous nuclear receptor ligand-binding domains have been fully elucidated, the recognition of the full-length or truncated coactivator by full nuclear receptor complexes remain unknown. Here we present structural details of the interaction between a large part of MED1 comprising its structured N-terminal and the flexible receptor-interacting domains and the mutual heterodimer of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and the retinoid X receptor (RXR) bound to their cognate DNA response element. Using a combination of structural and biophysical methods we show that the ligand-dependent interaction between VDR and the second coactivator motif of MED1 is crucial for complex formation and we identify additional, previously unseen, interaction details. In particular, we identified RXR regions involved in the interaction with the structured N-terminal domain of MED1, as well as VDR regions outside the classical coactivator binding cleft affected by coactivator recruitment. These findings highlight important roles of each receptor within the heterodimer in selective recognition of MED1 and contribute to our understanding of the nuclear receptor-coregulator complexes.
PXD019716	32991178	Comparative Proteomic Profiling of 3T3-L1 Adipocyte Differentiation Using SILAC Quantification. 	Comparative proteomic profiling of 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation using SILAC quantification	3T3-L1, Adipocyte, Differentiation, SILAC	Adipocyte differentiation is a general physiological process that is also critical for metabolic syndrome. In spite of extensive study in the past two decades, adipogenesis is a still complex cellular process that is accompanied by complicated molecular mechanisms. Here, we performed SILAC-based quantitative global proteomic profiling of 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation. We report protein changes to the proteome profiles, with 354 proteins exhibiting significant increase and 56 proteins showing decrease in our statistical analysis. Our results show that adipocyte differentiation is involved not only in metabolic processes by increasing TCA cycle, fatty acid synthesis, lipolysis, acetyl-CoA production, antioxidants, and electron transport, but also in nicotinamide metabolism, cristae formation, mitochondrial protein import, and Ca(2+) transport into mitochondria and ER. A search for Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP) using neXtprot highlighted one protein with a protein existence uncertain (PE5) and 17 proteins as functionally uncharacterized protein existence 1 (uPE1). This study provides quantitative information on proteome changes in adipogenic differentiation, which is helpful in improving our understanding of the processes of adipogenesis.
PXD014132	32991816	Changes in dietary fiber intake in mice reveal associations between colonic mucin O-glycosylation and specific gut bacteria. 	Interactions between host and gut microbiota following dietary interventions	- Dietary fibre modification, C57BL/6J mice, Correlation network analysis, Gut microbiota, Liver proteome, MUC2 glycosylation, short chain fatty acids	The colonic mucus layer, comprised of highly O-glycosylated mucins, is vital to mediating host-gut microbiota interactions, yet the impact of dietary changes on colonic mucin O-glycosylation and its associations with the gut microbiota remains unexplored. Here, we used an array of omics techniques including glycomics to examine the effect of dietary fiber consumption on the gut microbiota, colonic mucin O-glycosylation and host physiology of high-fat diet-fed C57BL/6J mice. The high-fat diet group had significantly impaired glucose tolerance and altered liver proteome, gut microbiota composition, and short-chain fatty acid production compared to normal chow diet group. While dietary fiber inclusion did not reverse all high fat-induced modifications, it resulted in specific changes, including an increase in the relative abundance of bacterial families with known fiber digesters and a higher propionate concentration. Conversely, colonic mucin O-glycosylation remained similar between the normal chow and high-fat diet groups, while dietary fiber intervention resulted in major alterations in O-glycosylation. Correlation network analysis revealed previously undescribed associations between specific bacteria and mucin glycan structures. For example, the relative abundance of the bacterium Parabacteroides distasonis positively correlated with glycan structures containing one terminal fucose and correlated negatively with glycans containing two terminal fucose residues or with both an N-acetylneuraminic acid and a sulfate residue. This is the first comprehensive report of the impact of dietary fiber on the colonic mucin O-glycosylation and associations of these mucosal glycans with specific gut bacteria.
PXD021082	32993114	Memory-Enhancing Effects of Origanum majorana Essential Oil in an Alzheimer's Amyloid beta1-42 Rat Model: A Molecular and Behavioral Study. 	Memory-enhancing effects of Origanum majorana essential oil in an Alzheimer's amyloid beta1-42 rat model: a molecular and behavioral study	Alzheimer disease, Amyloid beta1-42, Brain tissue, Origanum majorana, Rat	Origanum L. (Lamiaceae) is an important genus of medicinal and aromatic plants used in traditional medicine since ancient times as culinary herbs and remedies. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the chemical composition, as well as the biochemical and cellular activities of freshly prepared Origanum majorana L. essential oil (OmEO) in an Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloid beta1-42 (Abeta1-42) rat model. OmEO (1% and 3%) was inhaled for 21 consecutive days, while Abeta1-42 was administered intracerebroventricularly to induce AD-like symptoms. Our data demonstrate that OmEO increased antioxidant activity and enhanced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression, which in concert contributed to the improvement of cognitive function of animals. Moreover, OmEO presented beneficial effects on memory performance in Y-maze and radial arm-maze tests in the Abeta1-42 rat AD model.
PXD020357	32994315	Kinome Profiling of Primary Endometrial Tumors Using Multiplexed Inhibitor Beads and Mass Spectrometry Identifies SRPK1 as Candidate Therapeutic Target. 	Kinome Profiling of Primary Endometrial Tumors Using Multiplexed Inhibitor Beads and Mass Spectrometry Identifies SRPK1 As A Candidate Therapeutic Target	Endometrial, SRPK1	Endometrial carcinoma (EC) is the most common gynecologic malignancy in the United States, with limited effective targeted therapies. Endometrial tumors exhibit frequent alterations in protein kinases, yet only a small fraction of the kinome has been therapeutically explored. To identify kinase therapeutic avenues for EC, we profiled the kinome of endometrial tumors and normal endometrial tissues using Multiplexed Inhibitor Beads and Mass Spectrometry (MIB-MS). Our proteomics analysis identified a network of kinases overexpressed in tumors, including Serine/Arginine-Rich Splicing Factor Kinase 1 (SRPK1). Immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis of endometrial tumors confirmed MIB-MS findings and showed SRPK1 protein levels were highly expressed in endometrioid and uterine serous cancer (USC) histological subtypes. Moreover, querying large-scale genomics studies of EC tumors revealed high expression of SRPK1 correlated with poor survival. Loss-of-function studies targeting SRPK1 in an established USC cell line demonstrated SRPK1 was integral for RNA splicing, as well as cell cycle progression and survival under nutrient deficient conditions. Profiling of USC cells identified a compensatory response to SRPK1 inhibition that involved EGFR and the up-regulation of IGF1R and downstream AKT signaling. Co-targeting SRPK1 and EGFR or IGF1R synergistically enhanced growth inhibition in serous and endometrioid cell lines, representing a promising combination therapy for EC.
PXD019470	32994320	Sex Steroids Induce Membrane Stress Responses and Virulence Properties in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Proteomic analysis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa purified outer membrane vesicle (OMV) extracts exposed to sex steroids	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Sex steroid, outer membrane vesicles	Estrogen, a major female sex steroid hormone, has been shown to promote the selection of mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the airways of patients with chronic respiratory diseases, including cystic fibrosis. This results in long-term persistence, poorer clinical outcomes, and limited therapeutic options. In this study, we demonstrate that at physiological concentrations, sex steroids, including testosterone and estriol, induce membrane stress responses in P. aeruginosa This is characterized by increased virulence and consequent inflammation and release of proinflammatory outer membrane vesicles promoting in vivo persistence of the bacteria. The steroid-induced P. aeruginosa response correlates with the molecular polarity of the hormones and membrane fluidic properties of the bacteria. This novel mechanism of interaction between sex steroids and P. aeruginosa explicates the reported increased disease severity observed in females with cystic fibrosis and provides evidence for the therapeutic potential of the modulation of sex steroids to achieve better clinical outcomes in patients with hormone-responsive strains.IMPORTANCE Molecular mechanisms by which sex steroids interact with P. aeruginosa to modulate its virulence have yet to be reported. Our work provides the first characterization of a steroid-induced membrane stress mechanism promoting P. aeruginosa virulence, which includes the release of proinflammatory outer membrane vesicles, resulting in inflammation, host tissue damage, and reduced bacterial clearance. We further demonstrate that at nanomolar (physiological) concentrations, male and female sex steroids promote virulence in clinical strains of P. aeruginosa based on their dynamic membrane fluidic properties. This work provides, for the first-time, mechanistic insight to better understand and predict the P. aeruginosa related response to sex steroids and explain the interindividual patient variability observed in respiratory diseases such as cystic fibrosis that are complicated by gender differences and chronic P. aeruginosa infection.
PXD018771	32994567	Structure-based validation can drastically underestimate error rate in proteome-wide cross-linking mass spectrometry studies. 	Proteome-wide cross-linking mass spectrometry of human K562 cells	cross-linking mass spectrometry, interaction, protein-protein, proteome-wide	Thorough quality assessment of novel interactions identified by proteome-wide cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) studies is critical. Almost all current XL-MS studies have validated cross-links against known three-dimensional structures of representative protein complexes. Here, we provide theoretical and experimental evidence demonstrating that this approach can drastically underestimate error rates for proteome-wide XL-MS datasets, and propose a comprehensive set of four data-quality metrics to address this issue.
PXD019652	32995308	Comprehensive histone epigenetics: A mass spectrometry based screening assay to measure epigenetic toxicity. 	Comprehensive Histone Epigenetics (CHEpi): A mass spectrometry based screening assay to measure epigenetic toxicity	Drug safety, Histone post-translational modifications, Pharmacoepigenetics, Screening, Toxicoepigenetics	Evidence of the involvement of epigenetics in pathologies such as cancer, diabetes, and neurodegeneration has increased global interest in epigenetic modifications. For nearly thirty years, it has been known that cancer cells exhibit abnormal DNA methylation patterns. In contrast, the large-scale analysis of histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs) has lagged behind because classically, histone modification analysis has relied on site specific antibody-based techniques. Mass spectrometry (MS) is a technique that holds the promise to picture the histone code comprehensively in a single experiment. Therefore, we developed an MS-based method that is capable of tracking all possible hPTMs in an untargeted approach. In this way, trends in single and combinatorial hPTMs can be reported and enable prediction of the epigenetic toxicity of compounds. Moreover, this method is based on the use of human cells to provide preliminary data, thereby omitting the need to sacrifice laboratory animals. Improving the workflow and the user-friendliness in order to become a high throughput, easily applicable, toxicological screening assay is an ongoing effort. Still, this novel toxicoepigenetic assay and the data it generates holds great potential for, among others, pharmaceutical industry, food science, clinical diagnostics and, environmental toxicity screening. *There is a growing interest in epigenetic modifications, and more specifically in histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs).*We describe an MS-based workflow that is capable of tracking all possible hPTMs in an untargeted approach that makes use of human cells.*Improving the workflow and the user-friendliness in order to become a high throughput, easily applicable, toxicological screening assay is an ongoing effort.
PXD017787	32998073	Decrease of the pro-inflammatory M1-like response by inhibition of dipeptidyl peptidases 8/9 in THP-1 macrophages - quantitative proteomics of the proteome and secretome. 	Human macrophages LC-MS/MS in the proteome and secretome	LPS, macrophages, polarization, secretome	BACKGROUND: Cellular peptidases are an emerging target of novel pharmacological strategies in inflammatory diseases and cancer. In this context, the dipeptidyl peptidases 8 and 9 (DPP8/9) have gained special attention due to their activities in the immune cells. However, in spite of more than hundred protein substrates identified to date by mass spectrometry-based analysis, the cellular DPP8/9 functions are still elusive. METHODS: We applied the proteomic approach (iTRAQ-2DLC-MS/MS) to comprehensively analyze the role of DPP8/9 in the regulation of macrophage activation by in-depth protein quantitation of THP-1 proteome and secretome. RESULTS: Cells pre-incubated with DPP8/9 inhibitor (1G244) prior activation (LPS or IL-4/IL-13) diminished the expression levels of M1-like response markers, but not M2-like phenotype features. This was accompanied by multiple intra- and extra-cellular protein abundance changes in THP-1 cells, related to cellular metabolism, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum function, as well as those engaged with inflammatory and apoptotic processes, including previously reported and novel DPP8/9 targets. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of DPP 8/9 had a profound effect on the THP-1 macrophage proteome and secretome, evidencing the decrease of the pro-inflammatory M1-like response. Presented results are to our best knowledge the first which, among others, highlight the metabolic effects of DPP8/9 inhibition in macrophages.
PXD020743	32998758	Tubulin Tyrosine Ligase Like 4 (TTLL4) overexpression in breast cancer cells is associated with brain metastasis and alters exosome biogenesis. 	Tubulin Tyrosine Ligase Like 4 (TTLL4) overexpression in breast cancer cells alters exosome biogenesis and promotes brain metastasis	breast cancer, exosome, metastasis, microtubule, polyglutamylation	BACKGROUND: The survival rate is poor in breast cancer patients with brain metastases. Thus, new concepts for therapeutic approaches are required. During metastasis, the cytoskeleton of cancer cells is highly dynamic and therefore cytoskeleton-associated proteins are interesting targets for tumour therapy. METHODS: Screening for genes showing a significant correlation with brain metastasis formation was performed based on microarray data from breast cancer patients with long-term follow up information. Validation of the most interesting target was performed by MTT-, Scratch- and Transwell-assay. In addition, intracellular trafficking was analyzed by live-cell imaging for secretory vesicles, early endosomes and multiple vesicular bodies (MVB) generating extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), Western blotting, mass spectrometry, and ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA). Effect of EVs on the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) was examined by incubating endothelial cells of the BBB (hCMEC/D3) with EVs, and permeability as well as adhesion of breast cancer cells were analyzed. Clinical data of a breast cancer cohort was evaluated by chi2-tests, Kaplan-Meier-Analysis, and log-rank tests while for experimental data Student's T-test was performed. RESULTS: Among those genes exhibiting a significant association with cerebral metastasis development, the only gene coding for a cytoskeleton-associated protein was Tubulin Tyrosine Ligase Like 4 (TTLL4). Overexpression of TTLL4 (TTLL4(plus)) in MDA-MB231 and MDA-MB468 breast cancer cells (TTLL4(plus) cells) significantly increased polyglutamylation of beta-tubulin. Moreover, trafficking of secretory vesicles and MVBs was increased in TTLL4(plus) cells. EVs derived from TTLL4(plus) cells promote adhesion of MDA-MB231 and MDA-MB468 cells to hCMEC/D3 cells and increase permeability of hCMEC/D3 cell layer. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that TTLL4-mediated microtubule polyglutamylation alters exosome homeostasis by regulating trafficking of MVBs. The TTLL4(plus)-derived EVs may provide a pre-metastatic niche for breast cancer cells by manipulating endothelial cells of the BBB.
PXD017491	32999060	Fusidic acid resistance through changes in the dynamics of the drug target. 	Fusidic acid resistance through changes in the dynamics of EF-G	E coli	Antibiotic resistance in clinically important bacteria can be mediated by target protection mechanisms, whereby a protein binds to the drug target and protects it from the inhibitory effects of the antibiotic. The most prevalent source of clinical resistance to the antibiotic fusidic acid (FA) is expression of the FusB family of proteins that bind to the drug target (Elongation factor G [EF-G]) and promote dissociation of EF-G from FA-stalled ribosome complexes. FusB binding causes changes in both the structure and conformational flexibility of EF-G, but which of these changes drives FA resistance was not understood. We present here detailed characterization of changes in the conformational flexibility of EF-G in response to FusB binding and show that these changes are responsible for conferring FA resistance. Binding of FusB to EF-G causes a significant change in the dynamics of domain III of EF-GC3 that leads to an increase in a minor, more disordered state of EF-G domain III. This is sufficient to overcome the steric block of transmission of conformational changes within EF-G by which FA prevents release of EF-G from the ribosome. This study has identified an antibiotic resistance mechanism mediated by allosteric effects on the dynamics of the drug target.
PXD018809	32999082	Staphylococcus aureus Releases Proinflammatory Membrane Vesicles To Resist Antimicrobial Fatty Acids. 	Staphylococcus aureus membrane vesicles confer resistance to antimicrobial fatty acids	antimicrobial fatty acids, innate immunity, membrane vesicles	Staphylococcus aureus is a major pathogen, which colonizes one in three otherwise healthy humans. This significant spread of S. aureus is largely due to its ability to circumvent innate immune responses, including antimicrobial fatty acids (AFAs) on the skin and in nasal secretions. In response to AFAs, S. aureus swiftly induces resistance mechanisms, which have yet to be completely elucidated. Here, we identify membrane vesicle (MV) release as a resistance strategy used by S. aureus to sequester host-specific AFAs. MVs protect S. aureus against a wide array of AFAs. Strikingly, beside MV production, S. aureus modulates MV composition upon exposure to AFAs. MVs purified from bacteria grown in the presence of linoleic acid display a distinct protein content and are enriched in lipoproteins, which strongly activate Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Cumulatively, our findings reveal the protective capacities of MVs against AFAs, which are counteracted by an increased TLR2-mediated innate immune response.IMPORTANCE The nares of one in three humans are colonized by Staphylococcus aureus In these environments, and arguably on all mucosal surfaces, bacteria encounter fatty acids with antimicrobial properties. Our study uncovers that S. aureus releases membrane vesicles (MVs) that act as decoys to protect the bacterium against antimicrobial fatty acids (AFAs). The AFA-neutralizing effects of MVs were neither strain specific nor restricted to one particular AFA. Hence, MVs may represent "public goods" playing an overlooked role in shaping bacterial communities in AFA-rich environments such as the skin and nose. Intriguingly, in addition to MV biogenesis, S. aureus modulates MV composition in response to exposure to AFAs, including an increased release of lipoproteins. These MVs strongly stimulate the innate immunity via Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). TLR2-mediated inflammation, which helps to fight infections, may exacerbate inflammatory disorders like atopic dermatitis. Our study highlights intricate immune responses preventing infections from colonizing bacteria.
PXD018232	32999288	Structure of the TFIIIC subcomplex tauA provides insights into RNA polymerase III pre-initiation complex formation. 	Crosslinking-MS dataset of the TFIIIC subcomplex tauA with Brf1 and TBP	Pol III, S. cerevisiae, TFIIIB, TFIIIC, Transcription, XL-MS	Transcription factor (TF) IIIC is a conserved eukaryotic six-subunit protein complex with dual function. It serves as a general TF for most RNA polymerase (Pol) III genes by recruiting TFIIIB, but it is also involved in chromatin organization and regulation of Pol II genes through interaction with CTCF and condensin II. Here, we report the structure of the S. cerevisiae TFIIIC subcomplex tauA, which contains the most conserved subunits of TFIIIC and is responsible for recruitment of TFIIIB and transcription start site (TSS) selection at Pol III genes. We show that tauA binding to its promoter is auto-inhibited by a disordered acidic tail of subunit tau95. We further provide a negative-stain reconstruction of tauA bound to the TFIIIB subunits Brf1 and TBP. This shows that a ruler element in tauA achieves positioning of TFIIIB upstream of the TSS, and suggests remodeling of the complex during assembly of TFIIIB by TFIIIC.
PXD017691	33001186	Clinical Application of Multiple Reaction Monitoring-Mass Spectrometry to Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 Measurements as a Potential Diagnostic Tool for Breast Cancer Therapy. 	Clinical application of multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry to HER2 measurements as a potential diagnostic tool for breast cancer therapy	breast cancer, formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (MRM-MS), targeted proteomics	BACKGROUND: Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is often overexpressed in breast cancer and correlates with a worse prognosis. Thus, the accurate detection of HER2 is crucial for providing the appropriate measures for patients. However, the current techniques used to detect HER2 status, immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), have limitations. Specifically, FISH, which is mandatory for arbitrating 2+ cases, is time-consuming and costly. To address this shortcoming, we established a multiple reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (MRM-MS) assay that improves on existing methods for differentiating HER2 status. METHODS: We quantified HER2 expression levels in 210 breast cancer formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue samples by MRM-MS. We aimed to improve the accuracy and precision of HER2 quantification by simplifying the sample preparation through predicting the number of FFPE slides required to ensure an adequate amount of protein and using the expression levels of an epithelial cell-specific protein as a normalization factor when measuring HER2 expression levels. RESULTS: To assess the correlation between MRM-MS and IHC/FISH data, HER2 quantitative data from MRM-MS were divided by the expression levels of junctional adhesion molecule A, an epithelial cell-specific protein, prior to statistical analysis. The normalized HER2 amounts distinguished between HER2 2+/FISH-negative and 2+/FISH-positive groups (AUROC = 0.908), which could not be differentiated by IHC. In addition, all HER2 status were discriminated by MRM-MS. CONCLUSIONS: This MRM-MS assay yields more accurate HER2 expression levels relative to immunohistochemistry and should help to guide clinicians toward the proper treatment for breast cancer patients, based on their HER2 expression.
PXD016432	33004079	Faecal microbiota transplant from aged donor mice affects spatial learning and memory via modulating hippocampal synaptic plasticity- and neurotransmission-related proteins in young recipients. 	Hippocampus proteome Mus musculus	Hippocampus proteome	BACKGROUND: The gut-brain axis and the intestinal microbiota are emerging as key players in health and disease. Shifts in intestinal microbiota composition affect a variety of systems; however, evidence of their direct impact on cognitive functions is still lacking. We tested whether faecal microbiota transplant (FMT) from aged donor mice into young adult recipients altered the hippocampus, an area of the central nervous system (CNS) known to be affected by the ageing process and related functions. RESULTS: Young adult mice were transplanted with the microbiota from either aged or age-matched donor mice. Following transplantation, characterization of the microbiotas and metabolomics profiles along with a battery of cognitive and behavioural tests were performed. Label-free quantitative proteomics was employed to monitor protein expression in the hippocampus of the recipients. We report that FMT from aged donors led to impaired spatial learning and memory in young adult recipients, whereas anxiety, explorative behaviour and locomotor activity remained unaffected. This was paralleled by altered expression of proteins involved in synaptic plasticity and neurotransmission in the hippocampus. Also, a strong reduction of bacteria associated with short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) production (Lachnospiraceae, Faecalibaculum, and Ruminococcaceae) and disorders of the CNS (Prevotellaceae and Ruminococcaceae) was observed. Finally, the detrimental effect of FMT from aged donors on the CNS was confirmed by the observation that microglia cells of the hippocampus fimbria, acquired an ageing-like phenotype; on the contrary, gut permeability and levels of systemic and local (hippocampus) cytokines were not affected. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that age-associated shifts of the microbiota have an impact on protein expression and key functions of the CNS. Furthermore, these results highlight the paramount importance of the gut-brain axis in ageing and provide a strong rationale to devise therapies aiming to restore a young-like microbiota to improve cognitive functions and the declining quality of life in the elderly. Video Abstract.
PXD016145	33006225	Ewing sarcoma protein promotes dissociation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 from chromatin. 	Ewing sarcoma protein-mediated regulation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 dissociation	DNA damage response (DDR), EWS, PAR, PARP-1, PARylation	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) facilitates DNA damage response (DDR). While the Ewing's sarcoma breakpoint region 1 (EWS) protein fused to FLI1 triggers sarcoma formation, the physiological function of EWS is largely unknown. Here, we investigate the physiological role of EWS in regulating PARP1. We show that EWS is required for PARP1 dissociation from damaged DNA. Abnormal PARP1 accumulation caused by EWS inactivation leads to excessive Poly(ADP-Ribosy)lation (PARylation) and triggers cell death in both in vitro and in vivo models. Consistent with previous work, the arginine-glycine-glycine (RGG) domain of EWS is essential for PAR chain interaction and PARP1 dissociation from damaged DNA. Ews and Parp1 double mutant mice do not show improved survival, but supplementation with nicotinamide mononucleotides extends Ews-mutant pups' survival, which might be due to compensatory activation of other PARP proteins. Consistently, PARP1 accumulates on chromatin in Ewing's sarcoma cells expressing an EWS fusion protein that cannot interact with PARP1, and tissues derived from Ewing's sarcoma patients show increased PARylation. Taken together, our data reveal that EWS is important for removing PARP1 from damaged chromatin.
PXD020873	33007217	Proteomics-Based Identification of DUB Substrates Using Selective Inhibitors. 	Proteomics-based identification of DUBsubstrates using selective inhibitors	DUBs, Deubiquitinating enzymes, USP7, Ubiquitin, Ubiquitin proteasome system	Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) catalyze the removal of ubiquitin, thereby reversing the activity of E3 ubiquitin ligases and are central to the control of protein abundance and function. Despite the growing interest in DUBs as therapeutic targets, cellular functions for DUBs remain largely unknown and technical challenges often preclude the identification of DUB substrates in a comprehensive manner. Here, we demonstrate that treatment with potent DUB inhibitors coupled to mass spectrometry-based proteomics can identify DUB substrates at a proteome-wide scale. We applied this approach to USP7, a DUB widely investigated as a therapeutic target and identified many known substrates and additional targets. We demonstrate that USP7 substrates are enriched for DNA repair enzymes and E3 ubiquitin ligases. This work provides not only a comprehensive annotation of USP7 substrates, but a general protocol widely applicable to other DUBs, which is critical for translational development of DUB targeted agents.
PXD021293	33007994	ITRAQ Proteomic Analysis of Yellow and Black Skin in Jinbian Carp (Cyprinus carpio). 	ITRAQ proteomic analysis of yellow and black skin in Jinbian carp (Cyprinus carpio)	ITRAQ, Jinbian carp, melanin, pigmentation, pteridine	Colors are important phenotypic traits for fitness under natural conditions in vertebrates. Previous studies have reported several functional genes and genetic variations of pigmentation, but the formation mechanisms of various skin coloration remained ambiguous in fish. Jinbian carp, a common carp variant, displays two colors (yellow and black) in the skin, thus, it is a good model for investigating the genetic basis of pigmentation. In the present study, using the Jinbian carp as model, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (ITRAQ) proteomics analysis was performed for yellow and black skin, respectively. The results showed that 467 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified between the yellow skin and the black skin. Similar to mammals, the up-regulated DEPs in black skin included UV excision repair protein RAD23 homolog A (Rad23a), melanoregulin (mreg), 5,6-dihydroxyindole-2-carboxylic acid oxidase5 (tyrp1) and melanocyte protein PMEL (PMEL), which were mainly grouped into melanogenesis pathway. However, several up-regulated DEPs in yellow skin were mainly enriched in nucleotide metabolism, such as GTPase IMAP family member 5 (GIMAP5), AMP deaminase 1 (AMPD1), adenosylhomocysteinase b (ahcy-b), and pyruvate kinase (PKM). In summary, several candidate proteins and their enrichment pathways for color variation in Jinbian carp were identified, which may be responsible for the formation of different colorations.
PXD019044	33008000	Combinatory Treatment of Canavanine and Arginine Deprivation Efficiently Targets Human Glioblastoma Cells via Pleiotropic Mechanisms. 	Effects of Canavanine on Human Glioblastoma Cells under Arginine Deprivation	SILAC, canavanine	Glioblastomas are the most frequent and aggressive form of primary brain tumors with no efficient cure. However, they often exhibit specific metabolic shifts that include deficiency in the biosynthesis of and dependence on certain exogenous amino acids. Here, we evaluated, in vitro, a novel combinatory antiglioblastoma approach based on arginine deprivation and canavanine, an arginine analogue of plant origin, using two human glioblastoma cell models, U251MG and U87MG. The combinatory treatment profoundly affected cell viability, morphology, motility and adhesion, destabilizing the cytoskeleton and mitochondrial network, and induced apoptotic cell death. Importantly, the effects were selective toward glioblastoma cells, as they were not pronounced for primary rat glial cells. At the molecular level, canavanine inhibited prosurvival kinases such as FAK, Akt and AMPK. Its effects on protein synthesis and stress response pathways were more complex and dependent on exposure time. We directly observed canavanine incorporation into nascent proteins by using quantitative proteomics. Although canavanine in the absence of arginine readily incorporated into polypeptides, no motif preference for such incorporation was observed. Our findings provide a strong rationale for further developing the proposed modality based on canavanine and arginine deprivation as a potential antiglioblastoma metabolic therapy independent of the blood-brain barrier.
PXD017797	33008433	Peptidome analysis of cerebrospinal fluid in neonates with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage. 	Peptidome analysis of cerebrospinal fluid in neonates with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage	cerebrospinal fluid, hypoxic- ischemic brain damage, neonates, peptidomics	Hypoxic-ischemic brain injury (HIBD) causes neonatal death and serious neurological disability; however, there are currently no promising therapies for it excepting cooling. Therefore, in this study, we used peptidome analysis to identify differentially expressed peptides in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of neonates with HIBD or controls, which may give a foundation for finding new promising drugs of neonatal HIBD. CSF samples were collected from neonates with HIBD (n = 4) or controls (n = 4). ITRAQ LC-MS/MS was used to identify differentially expressed peptides between two groups. A total of 35 differentially expressed peptides from 25 precursor proteins were identified. The 2671.5 Da peptide (HSQFIGYPITLFVEKER), one of the down-regulated peptides in neonatal HIBD, is a fragment of heat shock protein 90-alpha (HSP90alpha/HSP90AA1). Results of bioinformatics analysis showed that HSP90alpha/HSP90AA1 was located in the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network hub and was involved in the NOD-LIKE receptor (NLR) signaling pathway. This peptide, we named it Hypoxic-Ischemic Brain Damage Associated Peptide (HIBDAP), is a hydrophilic peptide with high stability and has a long half-life of 3.5 h in mammalian reticulocytes. It was demonstrated that TAT-HIBDAP could successfully enter PC12 cells and further into the nucleus. After HIBDAP pretreatment and 6 h of OGD treatment, low concentrations of HIBDAP increased the survival rate of cells, except 40 muM had a toxic effect. Safe concentrations of HIBDAP reduced pyroptosis of PC12 cells under OGD, except 20 muM had no effect, by suppressing expressions of NLRP3, ASC and Caspase-1 except NLRP1. The results of our study identified the characterization and expression profiles of peptides in CSF of neonatal HIBD. Several meaningful peptides such as HIBDAP may play significant roles in neonatal HIBD and provide new therapeutic targets for neonatal HIBD.
PXD037229	33008897	Integrative glycoproteomics reveals protein N-glycosylation aberrations and glycoproteomic network alterations in Alzheimer's disease. 	Human brain glycoproteomic network alterations in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease, glycoproteomics	Protein N-glycosylation plays critical roles in controlling brain function, but little is known about human brain N-glycoproteome and its alterations in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we report the first, large-scale, site-specific N-glycoproteome profiling study of human AD and control brains using mass spectrometry-based quantitative N-glycoproteomics. The study provided a system-level view of human brain N-glycoproteins and in vivo N-glycosylation sites and identified disease signatures of altered N-glycopeptides, N-glycoproteins, and N-glycosylation site occupancy in AD. Glycoproteomics-driven network analysis showed 13 modules of co-regulated N-glycopeptides/glycoproteins, 6 of which are associated with AD phenotypes. Our analyses revealed multiple dysregulated N-glycosylation-affected processes and pathways in AD brain, including extracellular matrix dysfunction, neuroinflammation, synaptic dysfunction, cell adhesion alteration, lysosomal dysfunction, endocytic trafficking dysregulation, endoplasmic reticulum dysfunction, and cell signaling dysregulation. Our findings highlight the involvement of N-glycosylation aberrations in AD pathogenesis and provide new molecular and system-level insights for understanding and treating AD.
PXD016199	33009535	Age-Dependent Changes in the Plasma Proteome of Healthy Adults. 	Age-Dependent Changes in the Plasma Proteome of Healthy Adults	Aging, TMT-LC-MS/MS, healthy adults, plasma	OBJECTIVE: Human blood plasma is a complex that communicates with most parts of the body and reflects the changes in the state of an organism. Identifying age-related biomarkers can help predict and monitor age-related physiological decline and diseases and identify new treatments for diseases. METHODS AND PARTICIPANTS: In this study, TMT-LC-MS/MS was utilized to screen differentially expressed plasma proteins in 118 healthy adults of different ages. Participants were divided into three groups: 21-30 years of age (Young), 41-50 years of age (Middle) and >=60 years of age (Old). RESULTS: The number of differentially expressed proteins in the comparisons of Young vs Middle, Middle vs Old and Young vs Old were 82, 22 and 99, respectively. These proteins were involved in numerous physiological processes, such as "negative regulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation" and "blood coagulation". Moreover, when Young was compared with Middle or Old, "complement and coagulation cascades" was the top enriched pathway by KEGG pathway enrichment analysis. Functional phenotyping of the proteome demonstrated that the plasma proteomic profiles of young adults were strikingly dissimilar to those of the middle-aged or older adults. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study mapped the variation in the expression of plasma proteins and provided information about possible biomarkers/treatments for different age-related functional disorders.
PXD018893	33011347	Quantitative proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid using tandem mass tags in dogs with recurrent epileptic seizures. 	Proteomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid in epileptic and healthy dogs	Cerebrospinal fluid, TMT, dogs, epilepsy	This prospective study included four dog groups (group A: healthy dogs, groups B: dogs with idiopathic epilepsy under antiepileptic medication (AEM), C: idiopathic epilepsy dogs without AEM administration, D: dogs with structural epilepsy). The purpose of the study was to compare the proteomic profile among the four groups. Samples were analyzed by a quantitative Tandem Mass Tags approach using a Q-Exactive-Plus mass-spectrometer. Identification and relative quantification were performed using Proteome Discoverer, and data were analyzed using R. Gene ontology terms were analyzed based on Canis lupus familiaris database. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018893. Eighteen proteins were statistically significant among the four groups (P < 0.05). MMP2 and EFEMP2 appeared down-regulated whereas HP and APO-A1 were up-regulated (groups B, D). CLEC3B and PEBP4 were up-regulated whereas APO-A1 was down-regulated (group C). IGLL1 was down-regulated (groups B, C) and up-regulated (group D). EFEMP2 was the only protein detected among the four groups and PEBP4 was significantly different among the epileptic dogs. Western blot and SPARCL immunoassay were used to quantify HP abundance change, validating proteomic analysis. Both, showed good correlation with HP levels identified through proteomic analysis (r = 0.712 and r = 0.703, respectively). SIGNIFICANCE: The proteomic analysis from CSF of dogs with epileptic seizures could reflect that MMP2, HP and APO-A1 may contribute to a blood-brain barrier disruption through the seizure-induced inflammatory process in the brain. MMP2 change may indicate the activation of protective mechanisms within the brain tissue. Antiepileptic medication could influence several cellular responses and alter the CSF proteome composition.
PXD020016	33011677	ADAM17 cytoplasmic domain modulates Thioredoxin-1 conformation and activity. 	ADAM17 cytoplasmic domain modulates Thioredoxin-1	Trx-1 ADAM17 disulfide bond shuffle	The activity of Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) is adjusted by the balance of its monomeric, active and its dimeric, inactive state. The regulation of this balance is not completely understood. We have previously shown that the cytoplasmic domain of the transmembrane protein A Disintegrin And Metalloprotease 17 (ADAM17cyto) binds to Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) and the destabilization of this interaction favors the dimeric state of Trx-1. Here, we investigate whether ADAM17 plays a role in the conformation and activation of Trx-1. We found that disrupting the interacting interface with Trx-1 by a site-directed mutagenesis in ADAM17 (ADAM17cyto(F730A)) caused a decrease of Trx-1 reductive capacity and activity. Moreover, we observed that ADAM17 overexpressing cells favor the monomeric state of Trx-1 while knockdown cells do not. As a result, there is a decrease of cell oxidant levels and ADAM17 sheddase activity and an increase in the reduced cysteine-containing peptides in intracellular proteins in ADAM17cyto overexpressing cells. A mechanistic explanation that ADAM17cyto favors the monomeric, active state of Trx-1 is the formation of a disulfide bond between Cys(824) at the C-terminal of ADAM17cyto with the Cys(73) of Trx-1, which is involved in the dimerization site of Trx-1. In summary, we propose that ADAM17 is able to modulate Trx-1 conformation affecting its activity and intracellular redox state, bringing up a novel possibility for positive regulation of thiol isomerase activity in the cell by mammalian metalloproteinases.
PXD017836	33012227	Multi-omic detection of Mycobacterium leprae in archaeological human dental calculus. 	Multi-omic detection of Mycobacterium leprae in archaeological human dental calculus	dental calculus, palaeoproteomics	Mineralized dental plaque (calculus) has proven to be an excellent source of ancient biomolecules. Here we present a Mycobacterium leprae genome (6.6-fold), the causative agent of leprosy, recovered via shotgun sequencing of sixteenth-century human dental calculus from an individual from Trondheim, Norway. When phylogenetically placed, this genome falls in branch 3I among the diversity of other contemporary ancient strains from Northern Europe. Moreover, ancient mycobacterial peptides were retrieved via mass spectrometry-based proteomics, further validating the presence of the pathogen. Mycobacterium leprae can readily be detected in the oral cavity and associated mucosal membranes, which likely contributed to it being incorporated into this individual's dental calculus. This individual showed some possible, but not definitive, evidence of skeletal lesions associated with early-stage leprosy. This study is the first known example of successful multi-omics retrieval of M. leprae from archaeological dental calculus. Furthermore, we offer new insights into dental calculus as an alternative sample source to bones or teeth for detecting and molecularly characterizing M. leprae in individuals from the archaeological record. This article is part of the theme issue 'Insights into health and disease from ancient biomolecules'.
PXD020479	33013791	Secretome-Wide Analysis of Lysine Acetylation in Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici Provides Novel Insights Into Infection-Related Proteins. 	Global Proteomic Analysis of Lysine acetylation in Fusarium oxysporum	Fusarium oxysporum, Lysine acetylation	Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici (Fol) is the causal agent of Fusarium wilt disease in tomato. Proteins secreted by this pathogen during initial host colonization largely determine the outcome of pathogen-host interactions. Lysine acetylation (Kac) plays a vital role in the functions of many proteins, but little is known about Kac in Fol secreted proteins. In this study, we analyzed lysine acetylation of the entire Fol secretome. Using high affinity enrichment of Kac peptides and LC-MS/MS analysis, 50 potentially secreted Fol proteins were identified and acetylation sites determined. Bioinformatics analysis revealed 32 proteins with canonical N-terminal signal peptide leaders, and most of them were predicted to be enzymes involved in a variety of biological processes and metabolic pathways. Remarkably, all 32 predicted secreted proteins were novel and encoded on the core chromosomes rather than on the previously identified LS pathogenicity chromosomes. Homolog scanning of the secreted proteins among 40 different species revealed 4 proteins that were species specific, 3 proteins that were class-specific in the Ascomycota phylum, and 25 proteins that were more widely conserved genes. These secreted proteins provide a starting resource for investigating putative novel pathogenic genes, with 26 up-regulated genes encoding Kac proteins that may play an important role during initial symptomless infection stages.
PXD020208	33013815	The LysR-Type Transcriptional Regulator YeeY Plays Important Roles in the Regulatory of Furazolidone Resistance in Aeromonas hydrophila. 	The LysR-type transcriptional regulator YeeY plays important roles on the regulatory of furazolidone resistance in Aeromonas hydrophila	Aeromonas hydrophila, DIA based proteomics, YeeY, antimicrobial resistance, furazolidone	Aeromonas hydrophila is an aquatic pathogen of freshwater fish. The emergence of widespread antimicrobial-resistance strains of this pathogen has caused increasing rates of fish infections. Our previous research reported that A. hydrophila yeeY, a LysR-type transcriptional regulator (LTTR), negatively regulated furazolidone (FZ) resistance. Although, it's intrinsic regulatory mechanism is still unclear. In this study, a data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative proteomics method was used to compare the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between the DeltayeeY and wild-type strain under FZ treatment. When compared to the control, a total of 594 DEPs were identified in DeltayeeY. Among which, 293 and 301 proteins were substantially increased and decreased in abundance, respectively. Bioinformatics analysis showed that several biological pathways such as the secretion system and protein transport were mainly involved in FZ resistance. Subsequently, the antibiotics susceptibility assays of several gene deletion strains identified from the proteomics results showed that YeeY may regulate some important genes such as cysD, AHA_2766, AHA_3195, and AHA_4275, which affects the FZ resistance in A. hydrophila. Furthermore, 34 antimicrobial resistance genes (ARGs) from the bacterial drug resistance gene database (CARD) were found to be directly or indirectly regulated by YeeY. A subsequent assay of several ARGs mutants showed that DeltaAHA_3222 increased the susceptibility of A. hydrophila to FZ, while DeltacysN and DeltaAHA_3753 decreased the susceptibility rate. Finally, the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) PCR and an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) have revealed that the genes such as AHA_3222 and AHA_4275 were directly and transcriptionally regulated by YeeY. Taken together, our findings demonstrated that YeeY may participate in antimicrobial resistance of A. hydrophila to FZ, which provides a new target for the development of novel antimicrobial agents in the future.
PXD020585	33014839	NEDD4 Plays Roles in the Maintenance of Breast Cancer Stem Cell Characteristics. 	human breast cancer cell line LC-MS/MS	Hhuman, MDA-MB-231, NEDD4, breast cancer	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive type with poor prognosis among the breast cancers and has a high population of cancer stem cells (CSCs), which are the main target to cure and inhibit TNBC. In this study, we examined the role of neural precursor cell expressed developmentally downregulated protein 4 (NEDD4) in the proliferation, migration, and CSC characteristics of MDA-MB-231, a TNBC cell line. Interestingly, the Kaplan-Meier plotter showed that the survival rate of patients with a higher expression level of NEDD4 was significantly shorter than those of patients with a lower expression only in relatively aggressive and higher stage (grade 3) breast cancer patients. The knockdown of NEDD4 drastically decreased the proliferation, migration, and mammosphere formation in MDA-MB-231 cells. A proteomic analysis revealed the alteration of CSC-related proteins; notably, Myc targets stem cell-like signatures in siNEDD4-treated MDA-MB-231. An immunoassay also showed that the expression and the activity of breast CSC markers are decreased in NEDD4-deleted MDA-MB-231. Taken together, these results indicate that NEDD4 is involved in the maintenance of populations and characteristics of breast CSCs.
PXD020597	33014840	Proteomic Analysis of Protein Ubiquitination Events in Human Primary and Metastatic Colon Adenocarcinoma Tissues. 	Proteomic analysis of protein ubiquitination events in human primary and metastatic colon adenocarcinoma tissues	colon adenocarcinoma, metastasis, ubiquitination	Protein ubiquitination is essential for multiple physiological processes through regulating the stability or function of target proteins and has been found to play critical roles in human cancers. However, the protein ubiquitination profile of human metastatic colon adenocarcinoma tissue has not been elucidated yet. In this study, a proprietary ubiquitin branch (K-epsilon-GG) antibody-based label-free quantitative proteomics and bioinformatics were performed to identify the global protein ubiquitination profile between human primary (Colon) and metastatic colon adenocarcinoma (Meta) tissues. A total of 375 ubiquitination sites from 341 proteins were identified as differentially modificated (| Fold change| > 1.5, p < 0.05) in Meta group compared with the Colon group. Among them, 132 ubiquitination sites from 127 proteins were upregulated and 243 ubiquitination sites from 214 proteins were downregulated in Meta group. Fifteen ubiquitination motifs were found. Furthermore, GO and KEGG pathway analysis indicated that proteins with altered ubiquitination in Meta group were enriched in pathways highly related to cancer metastasis, such as RNA transport and cell cycle. We speculate that the altered ubiquitination of CDK1 may be a pro-metastatic factor in colon adenocarcinoma. This study provides novel scientific evidences to elucidate the biological functions of protein ubiquitination in human colon adenocarcinoma and insights into its potential mechanisms of colon cancer metastasis, which would be helpful to discover novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets for effective treatment of colon cancer.
PXD018895	33015975	Comparative Secretomics Gives Access to High Confident Secretome Data: Evaluation of Different Methods for the Determination of Bona Fide Secreted Proteins. 	Benchmarking of different methods for obtaining high quality secretomics data	benchmarking, conditioned medium, secreteome, secretomics, supernatant	Secretome analysis is broadly applied to understand the interplay between cells and their microenvironment. In particular, the unbiased analysis by mass spectrometry-based proteomics of conditioned medium has been successfully applied. In this context, several approaches have been developed allowing to distinguish proteins actively secreted by cells from proteins derived from culture medium or proteins released from dying cells. Here, three different methods comparing conditioned medium and lysate by quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics to identify bona fide secreted proteins are evaluated. Evaluation in three different human cell lines reveals that all three methods give access to a similar set of bona fide secreted proteins covering a broad abundance range. In the analyzed primary cells, that is, mesenchymal stromal cells and normal human dermal fibroblasts, more than 70% of the identified proteins are linked to classical secretion pathways. Furthermore, 4-12% are predicted to be released by unconventional secretion pathways. Interestingly, evidence of release by ectodomain shedding in a large number of the remaining candidate proteins is found. In summary, it is convinced that comparative secretomics is currently the method of choice to obtain high-confident secretome data and to identify novel candidates for unconventional protein secretion which have been neglected so far.
PXD020806	33015980	Isobaric Tag-Based Protein Profiling across Eight Human Cell Lines Using High-Field Asymmetric Ion Mobility Spectrometry and Real-Time Database Searching. 	Isobaric tag-based protein profiling across eight human cell lines using high-Field Asymmetric Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS) and real-time database searching (RTS)	Eclipse, FAIMS, Multi-Notch, RTS, SPS-MS3, TMTpro	A vast number of human cell lines are available for cell culture model-based studies, and as such the potential exists for discrepancies in findings due to cell line selection. To investigate this concept, the authors determine the relative protein abundance profiles of a panel of eight diverse, but commonly studied human cell lines. This panel includes HAP1, HEK293T, HeLa, HepG2, Jurkat, Panc1, SH-SY5Y, and SVGp12. A mass spectrometry-based proteomics workflow designed to enhance quantitative accuracy while maintaining analytical depth is used. To this end, this strategy leverages TMTpro16-based sample multiplexing, high-field asymmetric ion mobility spectrometry, and real-time database searching. The data show that the differences in the relative protein abundance profiles reflect cell line diversity. The authors also determine several hundred proteins to be highly enriched for a given cell line, and perform gene ontology and pathway analysis on these cell line-enriched proteins. An R Shiny application is designed to query protein abundance profiles and retrieve proteins with similar patterns. The workflows used herein can be applied to additional cell lines to aid cell line selection for addressing a given scientific inquiry or for improving an experimental design.
PXD019668	33016074	Optimized Sample Preparation and Data Processing of Data-Independent Acquisition Methods for the Robust Quantification of Trace-Level Host Cell Protein Impurities in Antibody Drug Products. 	Optimized sample preparation, data processing of data-independent acquisition methods for the robust quantification of trace-level host cell protein impurities in drug products	Data-independent analysis (DIA), Host cell proteins (HCP), Quantification, Sample preparation	Host cell proteins (HCPs) are a major class of bioprocess-related impurities generated by the host organism and are generally present at low levels in purified biopharmaceutical products. The monitoring of these impurities is identified as an important critical quality attribute of monoclonal antibody (mAb) formulations not only due to the potential risk for the product stability and efficacy but also concerns linked to the immunogenicity of some of them. While overall HCP levels are usually monitored by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), mass spectrometry (MS)-based approaches have been emerging as powerful and promising alternatives providing qualitative and quantitative information. However, a major challenge for liquid chromatography (LC)-MS-based methods is to deal with the wide dynamic range of drug products and the extreme sensitivity required to detect trace-level HCPs. In this study, we developed powerful and reproducible MS-based analytical workflows coupling optimized and efficient sample preparations, the library-free data-independent acquisition (DIA) method, and stringent validation criteria. The performances of several preparation protocols and DIA versus classical data-dependent acquisition (DDA) were evaluated using a series of four commercially available drug products. Depending on the selected protocols, the user has access to different information: on the one hand, a deep profiling of tens of identified HCPs and on the other hand, accurate and reproducible (coefficients of variation (CVs) < 12%) quantification of major HCPs. Overall, a final global HCP amount of a few tens of ng/mg mAb in these mAb samples was measured, while reaching a sensitivity down to the sub-ng/mg mAb level. Thus, this straightforward and robust approach can be intended as a routine quality control for any drug product analysis.
PXD021238	33017647	Quantitative proteomics reveals dual effects of calcium on radicle protrusion in soybean. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals dual effects of calcium on radicle protrusion in soybean	calcium, germination, radicle, soybean	To reveal calcium-mediated germination in soybean, a gel-free/label-free proteomics was performed in radicle of seed imbibed with CaCl2. Morphological analysis presented promoting and suppressing performance of seed growth under 5 and 50 mM CaCl2, respectively. A total of 106 and 581 proteins were identified in response to 5 and 50 mM CaCl2, respectively. Among 33 proteins, which were simultaneously affected by 5 and 50 mM CaCl2 imbibition, proteins related to protein metabolism, cell, development, and stress showed reversed abundance in response to CaCl2 on dose-dependent manner. Notably, protein abundance of late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) 4-5, LEA4, and dehydrin decreased and increased by 5 and 50 mM CaCl2, respectively, consistent with the transcript level. Moreover, inhibited biosynthesis of gibberellic acid repressed growth of 5 mM CaCl2-imbibed soybean, while inhibition of abscisic acid biosynthesis released the suppressing effects of 50 mM CaCl2. Taken together, these results suggest that decreased or increased protein abundance of LEA4-5, LEA4, and dehydrin might determine promoting or suppressing effects of low or high level of calcium on soybean through enhancing seed sensitivity to gibberellic acid or abscisic acid during radicle protrusion. SIGNIFICANCE: Calcium serves as a versatile signal in plant growth; however, calcium-mediated germination on dose-dependent manner remains elusive. In this study, dual effects of calcium on radicle protrusion in soybean were investigated using proteomic approach. Radicle growth of germinating seed was improved by 5 mM CaCl2; however, it was retarded by 50 mM CaCl2. Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) 4-5, LEA4, and dehydrin displayed converse profiles in response to low and high concentrations of CaCl2 at both protein abundance and gene expression level. Inhibited biosynthesis of gibberellic acid (GA) significantly impeded radicle protrusion in presence of low concentration of CaCl2, while inhibiting of abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis released suppression induced by high concentration of CaCl2. These findings suggest that LEA proteins are associated with calcium-mediated radicle protrusion on dose-dependent manner, and seed sensitivity to GA and ABA might determine promoting and suppressing effects of calcium on radicle protrusion in soybean.
PXD017510	33019700	Investigating Patterns of Immune Interaction in Ovarian Cancer: Probing the O-glycoproteome by the Macrophage Galactose-Like C-type Lectin (MGL). 	Probing the ovarian cancer O-glycoproteome by the Macrophage Galactose like C-type Lectin (MGL): dissecting novel patterns of immune recognition	DCs, O-glycosylation, Ovarian Cancer, Tn antigen, Tumor Biomarker, cancer immunotherapy	Glycosylation, the posttranslational linking of sugar molecules to proteins, is notoriously altered during tumor transformation. More specifically in carcinomas, GalNAc-type O-glycosylation, is characterized by biosynthetically immature truncated glycans present on the cancer cell surface, which profoundly impact anti-tumor immune recognition. The tumor-associated glycan pattern may thus be regarded as a biomarker of immune modulation. In epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) there is a particular lack of specific biomarkers and molecular targets to aid early diagnosis and develop novel therapeutic interventions. The aim of this study was to investigate the ovarian cancer O-glycoproteome and identify tumor-associated glycoproteins relevant in tumor-dendritic cell (DC) interactions, mediated by macrophage galactose-like C type lectin (MGL), which recognizes the tumor-associated Tn O-glycan. Lectin weak affinity chromatography (LWAC) was employed to probe the O-glycopeptidome by MGL and Vicia villosa agglutinin (VVA) lectin using glycoengineered ovarian cancer cell lines and ovarian cancer tissues as input material. Biochemical and bioinformatics analysis gave information on the glycan arrangement recognized by MGL in tumor cells. The potential MGL binders identified were located, as expected, at the cell membrane, but also within the intracellular compartment and the matrisome, suggesting that MGL in vivo may play a complex role in sensing microenvironmental cues. The tumor glycoproteins binders for MGL may become relevant to characterize the interaction between the immune system and tumor progression and contribute to the design of glycan targeting-based strategies for EOC immunotherapeutic interventions.
PXD021676	33020184	Optimized incorporation of an unnatural fluorescent amino acid affords measurement of conformational dynamics governing high-fidelity DNA replication. 	T7 DNA Polymerase with fluorescent unnatural amino acid	7-hydroxycoumarin-4-yl ethylglycine, DNA polymerase, T7, Unnatural amino acid	DNA polymerase from bacteriophage T7 undergoes large, substrate-induced conformational changes that are thought to account for high replication fidelity, but prior studies were adversely affected by mutations required to construct a Cys-lite variant needed for site-specific fluorescence labeling. Here we have optimized the direct incorporation of a fluorescent un-natural amino acid, (7-hydroxy-4-coumarin-yl)-ethylglycine, using orthogonal amber suppression machinery in Escherichia coli MS methods verify that the unnatural amino acid is only incorporated at one position with minimal background. We show that the single fluorophore provides a signal to detect nucleotide-induced conformational changes through equilibrium and stopped-flow kinetic measurements of correct nucleotide binding and incorporation. Pre-steady-state chemical quench methods show that the kinetics and fidelity of DNA replication catalyzed by the labeled enzyme are largely unaffected by the unnatural amino acid. These advances enable rigorous analysis to establish the kinetic and mechanistic basis for high-fidelity DNA replication.
PXD021703	33020190	ProAlanase is an Effective Alternative to Trypsin for Proteomics Applications and Disulfide Bond Mapping. 	ProAlanase is an effective alternative to trypsin for proteomics applications and disulfide bond mapping_part3	ProAlanase, de novo sequencing, disulfide bonds, histones, low-pH, phosphorylation, proline-rich, sequence coverage	Trypsin is the protease of choice in bottom-up proteomics. However, its application can be limited by the amino acid composition of target proteins and the pH of the digestion solution. In this study we characterize ProAlanase, a protease from the fungus Aspergillus niger that cleaves primarily on the C-terminal side of proline and alanine residues. ProAlanase achieves high proteolytic activity and specificity when digestion is carried out at acidic pH (1.5) for relatively short (2 h) time periods. To elucidate the potential of ProAlanase in proteomics applications, we conducted a series of investigations comprising comparative multi-enzymatic profiling of a human cell line proteome, histone PTM analysis, ancient bone protein identification, phosphosite mapping and de novo sequencing of a proline-rich protein and disulfide bond mapping in mAb. The results demonstrate that ProAlanase is highly suitable for proteomics analysis of the arginine- and lysine-rich histones, enabling high sequence coverage of multiple histone family members. It also facilitates an efficient digestion of bone collagen thanks to the cleavage at the C terminus of hydroxyproline which is highly prevalent in collagen. This allows to identify complementary proteins in ProAlanase- and trypsin-digested ancient bone samples, as well as to increase sequence coverage of noncollagenous proteins. Moreover, digestion with ProAlanase improves protein sequence coverage and phosphosite localization for the proline-rich protein Notch3 intracellular domain (N3ICD). Furthermore, we achieve a nearly complete coverage of N3ICD protein by de novo sequencing using the combination of ProAlanase and tryptic peptides. Finally, we demonstrate that ProAlanase is efficient in disulfide bond mapping, showing high coverage of disulfide-containing regions in a nonreduced mAb.
PXD020537	33020374	Label-Free Mass Spectrometry-Based Quantification of Linker Histone H1 Variants in Clinical Samples. 	Label free mass spectrometry-based quantification of linker histone H1 variants in clinical samples	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, epigenetics, label-free quantification, laser micro-dissection, linker histone H1	Epigenetic aberrations have been recognized as important contributors to cancer onset and development, and increasing evidence suggests that linker histone H1 variants may serve as biomarkers useful for patient stratification, as well as play an important role as drivers in cancer. Although traditionally histone H1 levels have been studied using antibody-based methods and RNA expression, these approaches suffer from limitations. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics represents the ideal tool to accurately quantify relative changes in protein abundance within complex samples. In this study, we used a label-free quantification approach to simultaneously analyze all somatic histone H1 variants in clinical samples and verified its applicability to laser micro-dissected tissue areas containing as low as 1000 cells. We then applied it to breast cancer patient samples, identifying differences in linker histone variants patters in primary triple-negative breast tumors with and without relapse after chemotherapy. This study highlights how label-free quantitation by MS is a valuable option to accurately quantitate histone H1 levels in different types of clinical samples, including very low-abundance patient tissues.
PXD020976	33020444	Proteotyping Environmental Microorganisms by Phylopeptidomics: Case Study Screening Water from a Radioactive Material Storage Pool. 	Tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping of microbial samples isolated from an industrial infrastructure.	Bacteria, Eukaryote, Fungus, Proteotyping, Taxonomy	The microbial diversity encompassed by the environmental biosphere is largely unexplored, although it represents an extensive source of new knowledge and potentially of novel enzymatic catalysts for biotechnological applications. To determine the taxonomy of microorganisms, proteotyping by tandem mass spectrometry has proved its efficiency. Its latest extension, phylopeptidomics, adds a biomass quantitation perspective for mixtures of microorganisms. Here, we present an application of phylopeptidomics to rapidly and sensitively screen microorganisms sampled from an industrial environment, i.e., a pool where radioactive material is stored. The power of this methodology is demonstrated through the identification of both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, whether as pure isolates or present as mixtures or consortia. In this study, we established accurate taxonomical identification of environmental prokaryotes belonging to the Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria phyla, as well as eukaryotes from the Ascomycota phylum. The results presented illustrate the potential of tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping, in particular phylopeptidomics, to screen for and rapidly identify microorganisms.
PXD021100	33020472	Glioma-derived IL-33 orchestrates an inflammatory brain tumor microenvironment that accelerates glioma progression. 	Glioma-derived IL-33 orchestrates an inflammatory brain tumor microenvironment that accelerates glioma progression	Glioma, Human Glioblastoma (GBM), IL-33, Phosphoproteomics, Tumor Microenvironment (TME), Tumor associated macrophages/monocytes/microglia	Despite a deeper molecular understanding, human glioblastoma remains one of the most treatment refractory and fatal cancers. It is known that the presence of macrophages and microglia impact glioblastoma tumorigenesis and prevent durable response. Herein we identify the dual function cytokine IL-33 as an orchestrator of the glioblastoma microenvironment that contributes to tumorigenesis. We find that IL-33 expression in a large subset of human glioma specimens and murine models correlates with increased tumor-associated macrophages/monocytes/microglia. In addition, nuclear and secreted functions of IL-33 regulate chemokines that collectively recruit and activate circulating and resident innate immune cells creating a pro-tumorigenic environment. Conversely, loss of nuclear IL-33 cripples recruitment, dramatically suppresses glioma growth, and increases survival. Our data supports the paradigm that recruitment and activation of immune cells, when instructed appropriately, offer a therapeutic strategy that switches the focus from the cancer cell alone to one that includes the normal host environment.
PXD021507	33021021	Urine recirculation prolongs normothermic kidney perfusion via more optimal metabolic homeostasis-a proteomics study. 	Urine recirculation prolongs normothermic kidney perfusion for via more optimal metabolic homeostasis - a proteomics study	IRI, ischemia reperfusion injury, kidney transplantation, nephrology, organ perfusion	We describe a proteomics analysis to determine the molecular differences between normothermically perfused (normothermic machine perfusion, NMP) human kidneys with urine recirculation (URC) and urine replacement (UR). Proteins were extracted from 16 kidney biopsies with URC (n = 8 donors after brain death [DBD], n = 8 donors after circulatory death [DCD]) and three with UR (n = 2 DBD, n = 1 DCD), followed by quantitative analysis by mass spectrometry. Damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) were decreased in kidney tissue after 6 hours NMP with URC, suggesting reduced inflammation. Vasoconstriction was also attenuated in kidneys with URC as angiotensinogen levels were reduced. Strikingly, kidneys became metabolically active during NMP, which could be enhanced and prolonged by URC. For instance, mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase enzyme levels as well as carbonic anhydrase were enhanced with URC, contributing to pH stabilization. Levels of cytosolic and the mitochondrial phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase were elevated after 24 hours of NMP, more prevalent in DCD than DBD tissue. Key enzymes involved in glucose metabolism were also increased after 12 and 24 hours of NMP with URC, including mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase and glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase, predominantly in DCD tissue. We conclude that NMP with URC permits prolonged preservation and revitalizes metabolism to possibly better cope with ischemia reperfusion injury in discarded kidneys.
PXD016604	33021054	Optimized low-dose combinatorial drug treatment boosts selectivity and efficacy of colorectal carcinoma treatment. 	Optimized high-order drug mixtures improve colorectal carcinoma treatment via inactivationof MAP kinase signaling pathway and cell cycle alteration	colorectal carcinoma, combination therapy, drug selection, label-free, pTyr IP, phosphokinase ranking, phosphoproteomics, single-shot	The current standard of care for colorectal cancer (CRC) is a combination of chemotherapeutics, often supplemented with targeted biological drugs. An urgent need exists for improved drug efficacy and minimized side effects, especially at late-stage disease. We employed the phenotypically driven therapeutically guided multidrug optimization (TGMO) technology to identify optimized drug combinations (ODCs) in CRC. We identified low-dose synergistic and selective ODCs for a panel of six human CRC cell lines also active in heterotypic 3D co-culture models. Transcriptome sequencing and phosphoproteome analyses showed that the mechanisms of action of these ODCs converged toward MAP kinase signaling and cell cycle inhibition. Two cell-specific ODCs were translated to in vivo mouse models. The ODCs reduced tumor growth by ~80%, outperforming standard chemotherapy (FOLFOX). No toxicity was observed for the ODCs, while significant side effects were induced in the group treated with FOLFOX therapy. Identified ODCs demonstrated significantly enhanced bioavailability of the individual components. Finally, ODCs were also active in primary cells from CRC patient tumor tissues. Taken together, we show that the TGMO technology efficiently identifies selective and potent low-dose drug combinations, optimized regardless of tumor mutation status, outperforming conventional chemotherapy.
PXD017291	33022891	Aggregation and disaggregation features of the human proteome. 	Aggregation and disaggregation features of the human proteome	K562, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Q Exactive Plus Orbitrap, SILAC, TMT, aggregation, disaggregation, heat shock, isobarQuant, protein quality control, thermal proteome profiling, thermal stability	Protein aggregates have negative implications in disease. While reductionist experiments have increased our understanding of aggregation processes, the systemic view in biological context is still limited. To extend this understanding, we used mass spectrometry-based proteomics to characterize aggregation and disaggregation in human cells after non-lethal heat shock. Aggregation-prone proteins were enriched in nuclear proteins, high proportion of intrinsically disordered regions, high molecular mass, high isoelectric point, and hydrophilic amino acids. During recovery, most aggregating proteins disaggregated with a rate proportional to the aggregation propensity: larger loss in solubility was counteracted by faster disaggregation. High amount of intrinsically disordered regions were associated with faster disaggregation. However, other characteristics enriched in aggregating proteins did not correlate with the disaggregation rates. In addition, we analyzed changes in protein thermal stability after heat shock. Soluble remnants of aggregated proteins were more thermally stable compared with control condition. Therefore, our results provide a rich resource of heat stress-related protein solubility data and can foster further studies related to protein aggregation diseases.
PXD019137	33023907	The glucose-sensing transcription factor ChREBP is targeted by proline hydroxylation. 	Proline hydroxylation of ChREBP	HEK293, mouse liver, proline hydroxylation	Cellular energy demands are met by uptake and metabolism of nutrients like glucose. The principal transcriptional regulator for adapting glycolytic flux and downstream pathways like de novo lipogenesis to glucose availability in many cell types is carbohydrate response element-binding protein (ChREBP). ChREBP is activated by glucose metabolites and post-translational modifications, inducing nuclear accumulation and regulation of target genes. Here we report that ChREBP is modified by proline hydroxylation at several residues. Proline hydroxylation targets both ectopically expressed ChREBP in cells and endogenous ChREBP in mouse liver. Functionally, we found that specific hydroxylated prolines were dispensable for protein stability but required for the adequate activation of ChREBP upon exposure to high glucose. Accordingly, ChREBP target gene expression was rescued by re-expressing WT but not ChREBP that lacks hydroxylated prolines in ChREBP-deleted hepatocytes. Thus, proline hydroxylation of ChREBP is a novel post-translational modification that may allow for therapeutic interference in metabolic diseases.
PXD017716	33024055	Protective effect of Vigna unguiculata extract against aging and neurodegeneration. 	Protective effect of Vigna unguiculata extract against aging and neurodegeneration	Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Parkinson's disease (PD), Saccharomyces cerevisiae, functional food, human -synuclein, nano LC-MS/MS, nutrition	Aging and age-related neurodegeneration are among the major challenges in modern medicine because of the progressive increase in the number of elderly in the world population. Nutrition, which has important long-term consequences for health, is an important way to prevent diseases and achieve healthy aging. The beneficial effects of Vigna unguiculata on metabolic disorders have been widely documented. Here, we show that an aqueous extract of V. unguiculata beans delays senescence both in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Drosophila melanogaster, in a Snf1/AMPK-dependent manner. Consistently, an increased expression of FOXO, SIRT1, NOTCH and heme oxygenase (HO) genes, already known to be required for the longevity extension in D. melanogaster, is also shown. Preventing alpha-synuclein self-assembly is one of the most promising approaches for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), for which aging is a risk factor. In vitro aggregation of alpha-synuclein, its toxicity and membrane localization in yeast and neuroblastoma cells are strongly decreased in the presence of bean extract. In a Caenorhabditis elegans model of PD, V. unguiculata extract substantially reduces the number of the age-dependent degeneration of the cephalic dopaminergic neurons. Our findings support the role of V. unguiculata beans as a functional food in age-related disorders.
PXD016430	33026181	MiR-29 coordinates age-dependent plasticity brakes in the adult visual cortex. 	MiR-29 coordinates age-dependent plasticity brakes in the adult visual cortex	age-dependent plasticity, miR-29, visual cortex	Visual cortical circuits show profound plasticity during early life and are later stabilized by molecular "brakes" limiting excessive rewiring beyond a critical period. The mechanisms coordinating the expression of these factors during the transition from development to adulthood remain unknown. We found that miR-29a expression in the visual cortex dramatically increases with age, but it is not experience-dependent. Precocious high levels of miR-29a blocked ocular dominance plasticity and caused an early appearance of perineuronal nets. Conversely, inhibition of miR-29a in adult mice using LNA antagomirs activated ocular dominance plasticity, reduced perineuronal nets, and restored their juvenile chemical composition. Activated adult plasticity had the typical functional and proteomic signature of critical period plasticity. Transcriptomic and proteomic studies indicated that miR-29a manipulation regulates the expression of plasticity brakes in specific cortical circuits. These data indicate that miR-29a is a regulator of the plasticity brakes promoting age-dependent stabilization of visual cortical connections.
PXD020590	33026191	LSD1 inhibition induces differentiation and cell death in Merkel cell carcinoma. 	LSD1 inhibition induces differentiation and cell death in Merkel cell carcinoma	Epigenetics, HMG20B, KDM1A, LSD1, MCC	Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a highly aggressive, neuroendocrine skin cancer that lacks actionable mutations, which could be utilized for targeted therapies. Epigenetic regulators governing cell identity may represent unexplored therapeutic entry points. Here, we targeted epigenetic regulators in a pharmacological screen and discovered that the lysine-specific histone demethylase 1A (LSD1/KDM1A) is required for MCC growth in vitro and in vivo. We show that LSD1 inhibition in MCC disrupts the LSD1-CoREST complex leading to displacement and degradation of HMG20B (BRAF35), a poorly characterized complex member that is essential for MCC proliferation. Inhibition of LSD1 causes derepression of transcriptional master regulators of the neuronal lineage, activates a gene expression signature resembling normal Merkel cells, and induces cell cycle arrest and cell death. Our study unveils the importance of LSD1 for maintaining cellular plasticity and proliferation in MCC. There is also growing evidence that cancer cells exploit cellular plasticity and dedifferentiation programs to evade destruction by the immune system. The combination of LSD1 inhibitors with checkpoint inhibitors may thus represent a promising treatment strategy for MCC patients.
PXD020990	33027658	Respiratory Supercomplexes Promote Mitochondrial Efficiency and Growth in Severely Hypoxic Pancreatic Cancer. 	Hypoxia TMT Proteomics on Pancreatic Cancer Cell Lines	Hypoxia, Pancreatic Cancer, TMT	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by extensive fibrosis and hypovascularization, resulting in significant intratumoral hypoxia (low oxygen) that contributes to its aggressiveness, therapeutic resistance, and high mortality. Despite oxygen being a fundamental requirement for many cellular and metabolic processes, and the severity of hypoxia in PDAC, the impact of oxygen deprivation on PDAC biology is poorly understood. Investigating how PDAC cells survive in the near absence of oxygen, we find that PDAC cell lines grow robustly in oxygen tensions down to 0.1%, maintaining mitochondrial morphology, membrane potential, and the oxidative metabolic activity required for the synthesis of key metabolites for proliferation. Disrupting electron transfer efficiency by targeting mitochondrial respiratory supercomplex assembly specifically affects hypoxic PDAC proliferation, metabolism, and in vivo tumor growth. Collectively, our results identify a mechanism that enables PDAC cells to thrive in severe, oxygen-limited microenvironments.
PXD020694	33027703	Data independent acquisition of plasma biomarkers of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. 	Data Independent Acquisition of plasma biomarkers of response to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma	biomarker, complement, data-independent acquisition, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, pancreatic cancer, plasma	The detection of disease-related plasma biomarkers has challenged the proteomic community for years. Attractive features for plasma proteomics includes the ease of collection and small volume needed for analysis, but on the other hand, the presence of highly abundant proteins complicates sample preparation procedures and reduces dynamic range. Data independent acquisition label free quantitation (DIA-LFQ) by mass spectrometry partly overcomes the dynamic range issue; however, generating the peptide spectral reference libraries that allow extensive analysis of the plasma proteome can be a slow and expensive task which is unattainable for many laboratories. We investigated the re-purposing of publically available plasma proteome datasets and the impact on peptide/protein detection for DIA-LFQ. We carried out these studies in the context of identifying putative biomarkers of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, as no useful plasma biomarkers have been clinically adopted. We demonstrated the benefit in searching DIA data against multiple spectral libraries to show that complement proteins were linked to NAC response in PDAC patients, confirming previous observations of the prognostic utility of complement following adjuvant chemotherapy. Our workflow demonstrates that DIA-LFQ can be readily applied in the oncology setting for the putative assignment of clinically relevant plasma biomarkers. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The proteomic mass spectrometry analysis of undepleted, unfractionated human plasma has benefits for sample throughput but remains challenging to obtain deep coverage. This work evaluated the re-purposing of open source peptide mass spectrometry data from human plasma to create spectral reference libraries for use in Data independent acquisition (DIA). We showed how seeding in locally acquired data to integrate iRT peptides into spectral libraries increased identification confidence by facilitating querying of multiple libraries. This workflow was applied to the discovery of putative plasma biomarkers for response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma patients. There is a paucity of prior information in the literature on this topic and we show that good responder patients have reduced levels of complement proteins.
PXD020530	33028848	Palaeoproteomic analysis of Pleistocene cave hyenas from east Asia. 	Palaeoproteomic analysis of Pleistocene cave hyenas from east Asia	Cave hyenas, Northern China, Palaeoproteomics, Phylogenetic reconstruction	The spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta) is the only extant species of the genus Crocuta, which once occupied a much wider range during the Pliocene and Pleistocene. However, its origin and evolutionary history is somewhat contentious due to discordances between morphological, nuclear, and mitochondrial data. Due to the limited molecular data from east Asian Crocuta, also known as cave hyena, and the difficulty of extracting ancient DNA from this area, here we present proteomic analysis of cave hyenas from three locations in northern China. This marks the first proteomic data generated from cave hyenas, adding new molecular data to the east Asian populations. Phylogenetic analysis based on these protein sequences reveals two different groups of cave hyenas in east Asia, one of which could not be distinguished from modern spotted hyenas from northern Africa, tentatively the result of previously suggested gene flow between these lineages. With developments of instrumentation and analytical methods, proteomics holds promising potential for molecular phylogenetic reconstructions of ancient fauna previously thought to be unreachable using ancient DNA.
PXD014551	33034086	Ovarian fluid proteome variation associates with sperm swimming speed in an externally fertilizing fish. 	Ovarian fluid proteome variation associates with sperm swimming speed in an externally fertilizing fish	Chinook salmon, Oncorhynchus tshawytscha, coelomic fluid, iTRAQ, ovarian fluid	Sperm velocity is a key trait that predicts the outcome of sperm competition. By promoting or impeding sperm velocity, females can control fertilization via postcopulatory cryptic female choice. In Chinook salmon, ovarian fluid (OF), which surrounds the ova, mediates sperm velocity according to male and female identity, biasing the outcome of sperm competition towards males with faster sperm. Past investigations have revealed proteome variation in OF, but the specific components of OF that differentially mediate sperm velocity have yet to be characterized. Here we use quantitative proteomics to investigate whether OF protein composition explains variation in sperm velocity and fertilization success. We found that OF proteomes from six females robustly clustered into two groups and that these groups are distinguished by the abundance of a restricted set of proteins significantly associated with sperm velocity. Exposure of sperm to OF from females in group I had faster sperm compared to sperm exposed to the OF of group II females. Overall, OF proteins that distinguished between these groups were enriched for vitellogenin and calcium ion interactions. Our findings suggest that these proteins may form the functional basis for cryptic female choice via the biochemical and physiological mediation of sperm velocity.
PXD018786	33035450	Vaccinia Virus Immunomodulator A46: Destructive Interactions with MAL and MyD88 Shown by Negative-Stain Electron Microscopy. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometry identifies interacting regions between VACV A46 and human MAL or MyD88	Bcl-2-like, QExactive HF-X, TIR domain, TLR 4, Vaccinia, cross-linking MS	Vaccinia virus A46 is an anti-inflammatory and non-anti-apoptotic, two-domain member of the poxviral Bcl-2-like protein family that inhibits the cellular innate immune response at the level of the Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain-containing TLR adaptor proteins MAL, MyD88, TRAM, and TRIF. The mechanism of interaction of A46 with its targets has remained unclear. The TIR domains of MAL and MyD88 have been shown to signal by forming filamentous assemblies. We show a clear concentration-dependent destruction of both of these assemblies by A46 by means of negative-stain electron microscopy from molar ratios of 1:15 for MAL and 1:30 for MyD88. Using targeted mutagenesis and protein-protein crosslinking, we show that A46 interacts with MAL and MyD88 through several facets, including residues on helices alpha1 and alpha7 and the C-terminal flexible region. We propose a model in which A46 targets the MAL and MyD88 signalosome intra-strand interfaces and gradually destroys their assemblies in a concentration-dependent manner.
PXD020705	33035715	Phos-tag diagonal electrophoresis precisely detects the mobility change of phosphoproteins in Phos-tag SDS-PAGE. 	MS analsysis of phosphoproteins separated by phos-tag diagonal electrophoresis of Human 26S proteasome 	diagonal electrophoresis, phos-tag, proteasome	Phos-tag diagonal electrophoresis was developed to identify precisely a change in electrophoretic mobility of phosphoproteins in Phos-tag SDS-PAGE. Previously, if a single protein band was detected, it was impossible to determine whether mobility of the protein altered by Mn(2+) Phos-tag in Phos-tag SDS-PAGE gels because SDS-PAGE and Phos-tag SDS-PAGE were performed on different gels. Moreover, when multiple protein bands were detected, it was difficult to determine whether the band with the highest mobility was altered mobility by Mn(2+) Phos-tag. However, these problems were resolved by Phos-tag diagonal electrophoresis in which SDS-PAGE and Phos-tag SDS-PAGE patterns were provided on a single gel. Using this technique we identified phosphorylation states of various proteins such as alpha-lactalbumin, alpha- and beta-casein, ovalbumin, basic 7S globulin, and 26S proteasome subunits. In the analyses of 26S proteasome subunits from humans and yeast, we could confirm that all subunits are phosphorylated, and find that the number of major proteins with different phosphorylation states is a few in each of the subunits despite having many phosphorylation sites. SIGNIFICANCE: Previously, Phos-tag SDS-PAGE has been developed to identify a change in electrophoretic mobility of phosphoproteins. However, we had a problem in this technique; it was often difficult to recognize the mobility shift by Mn(2+) Phos-tag when we used separately SDS-PAGE and Phos-tag SDS-PAGE. Such a problem was resolved by Phos-tag diagonal electrophoresis in which SDS-PAGE and Phos-tag SDS-PAGE patterns are provided on a single gel. This technique was useful to identify phosphorylation states of various proteins. : Phos-tag diagonal electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, phosphoproteins, basic 7S globulin, proteasome.
PXD015215	33037214	Rational design of a microbial consortium of mucosal sugar utilizers reduces Clostridiodes difficile colonization. 	Stable Isotope Probing Deuterium LC-MS/MS	Stable isotope probing, colonization resistance, metaproteomics, mucosal sugars, nutrient competition	Many intestinal pathogens, including Clostridioides difficile, use mucus-derived sugars as crucial nutrients in the gut. Commensals that compete with pathogens for such nutrients are therefore ecological gatekeepers in healthy guts, and are attractive candidates for therapeutic interventions. Nevertheless, there is a poor understanding of which commensals use mucin-derived sugars in situ as well as their potential to impede pathogen colonization. Here, we identify mouse gut commensals that utilize mucus-derived monosaccharides within complex communities using single-cell stable isotope probing, Raman-activated cell sorting and mini-metagenomics. Sequencing of cell-sorted fractions reveals members of the underexplored family Muribaculaceae as major mucin monosaccharide foragers, followed by members of Lachnospiraceae, Rikenellaceae, and Bacteroidaceae families. Using this information, we assembled a five-member consortium of sialic acid and N-acetylglucosamine utilizers that impedes C. difficile's access to these mucosal sugars and impairs pathogen colonization in antibiotic-treated mice. Our findings underscore the value of targeted approaches to identify organisms utilizing key nutrients and to rationally design effective probiotic mixtures.
PXD013114	33037220	The reductive glycine pathway allows autotrophic growth of Desulfovibrio desulfuricans. 	Natural occurrence of the reductive glycine pathway in Desulfovibrio desulfuricans strain G11	CO2 fixation, Desulfovibrio, novel pathway, reductive glycine pathway	Six CO2 fixation pathways are known to operate in photoautotrophic and chemoautotrophic microorganisms. Here, we describe chemolithoautotrophic growth of the sulphate-reducing bacterium Desulfovibrio desulfuricans (strain G11) with hydrogen and sulphate as energy substrates. Genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic analyses reveal that D. desulfuricans assimilates CO2 via the reductive glycine pathway, a seventh CO2 fixation pathway. In this pathway, CO2 is first reduced to formate, which is reduced and condensed with a second CO2 to generate glycine. Glycine is further reduced in D. desulfuricans by glycine reductase to acetyl-P, and then to acetyl-CoA, which is condensed with another CO2 to form pyruvate. Ammonia is involved in the operation of the pathway, which is reflected in the dependence of the autotrophic growth rate on the ammonia concentration. Our study demonstrates microbial autotrophic growth fully supported by this highly ATP-efficient CO2 fixation pathway.
PXD050962	33037862	Multi-omics analysis suggests enhanced epileptogenesis in the Cornu Ammonis 3 of the pilocarpine model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. 	Proteomic profile of hippocampus regions from the pilocarpine medial temporal lobe epilepsy model	dentate gyrus, epilepsy, hippocampus, label-free	Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by the occurrence of seizures, and histopathological abnormalities in the mesial temporal lobe structures, mainly hippocampal sclerosis (HS). We used a multi-omics approach to determine the profile of transcript and protein expression in the dorsal and ventral hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and Cornu Ammonis 3 (CA3) in an animal model of MTLE induced by pilocarpine. We performed label-free proteomics and RNAseq from laser-microdissected tissue isolated from pilocarpine-induced Wistar rats. We divided the DG and CA3 into dorsal and ventral areas and analyzed them separately. We performed a data integration analysis and evaluated enriched signaling pathways, as well as the integrated networks generated based on the gene ontology processes. Our results indicate differences in the transcriptomic and proteomic profiles among the DG and the CA3 subfields of the hippocampus. Moreover, our data suggest that epileptogenesis is enhanced in the CA3 region when compared to the DG, with most abnormalities in transcript and protein levels occurring in the CA3. Furthermore, our results show that the epileptogenesis in the pilocarpine model involves predominantly abnormal regulation of excitatory neuronal mechanisms mediated by N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, changes in the serotonin signaling, and neuronal activity controlled by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK) regulation and leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2)/WNT signaling pathways.
PXD019623	33038060	Resistant starch slows the progression of CKD in the 5/6 nephrectomy mouse model. 	Investigation of Resistant Starch effect on gut microbiome in 5/6 nephrectomy mouse model of Chronic Kidney Disease	kidney, metaproteomics, microbiome	BACKGROUND: Resistant Starch (RS) improves CKD outcomes. In this report, we study how RS modulates host-microbiome interactions in CKD by measuring changes in the abundance of proteins and bacteria in the gut. In addition, we demonstrate RS-mediated reduction in CKD-induced kidney damage. METHODS: Eight mice underwent 5/6 nephrectomy to induce CKD and eight served as healthy controls. CKD and Healthy (H) groups were further split into those receiving RS (CKDRS, n = 4; HRS, n = 4) and those on normal diet (CKD, n = 4, H, n = 4). Kidney injury was evaluated by measuring BUN/creatinine and by histopathological evaluation. Cecal contents were analyzed using mass spectrometry-based metaproteomics and de novo sequencing using PEAKS. All the data were analyzed using R/Bioconductor packages. RESULTS: The 5/6 nephrectomy compromised kidney function as seen by an increase in BUN/creatinine compared to healthy groups. Histopathology of kidney sections showed reduced tubulointerstitial injury in the CKDRS versus CKD group; while no significant difference in BUN/creatinine was observed between the two CKD groups. Identified proteins point toward a higher population of butyrate-producing bacteria, reduced abundance of mucin-degrading bacteria in the RS fed groups, and to the downregulation of indole metabolism in CKD groups. CONCLUSION: RS slows the progression of chronic kidney disease. Resistant starch supplementation leads to active bacterial proliferation and the reduction of harmful bacterial metabolites.
PXD019296	33039626	Quantitative proteomics reveals Shexiang Baoxin Pill exerts cardioprotective effects by preserving energy metabolism in a rat model of myocardial infarction. 	Quantitative proteomics uncovers the regulation of energy metabolism by Shexiang Baoxin Pill in myocardial infarction model rats	Cardiovascular disease, Energy metabolism, Quantitative proteomics, Shexiang Baoxin Pill	ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Shexiang Baoxin Pill (SBP) is a composite formula of traditional Chinese medicine used to treat cardiovascular disease (CVD) in the clinic. However, the mechanism of its therapeutic effect on CVD has not been clearly elucidated yet. AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of this study was to investigate the potential cardioprotective mechanism of SBP in the treatment of myocardial infarction (MI) model rats by applying proteomic approach. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The rat model of MI was generated by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery. Eighteen rats were randomly divided into three groups (n = 6 each): the MI group, MI group treated with SBP (SBP), and sham-operated group (SOG). Cardiac function in the experimental groups was assessed by echocardiography analyses after 15 days of treatment. A label-free quantitative proteomic approach was utilized to investigate the whole proteomes of heart tissues from the groups above on the day of the operation (Day 0) and 15 days later (Day 15). The differentially expressed proteins were subsequently analyzed with bioinformatic methods. Additionally, the expression levels of two promising proteins were validated by Western blotting. RESULTS: The echocardiography analyses showed that SBP treatment significantly preserved the cardiac function of MI rats. Additionally, quantitative proteomics identified 389 differentially expressed proteins, and 15 proteins were considered as logical candidates for explaining the cardioprotective effect of SBP. Bioinformatic analysis of these differentially expressed proteins revealed that the proteins involved in cellular mitochondrial energy metabolism processes, such as fatty acid beta-oxidation and aerobic respiration, were significantly regulated under SBP treatment, of which fatty acid-binding protein 3 (FABP3) and myoglobin (MB) were significantly downregulated in the MI model group compared with the SOG group and returned to the basal level with SBP treatment, confirmed by Western blotting. CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study suggest that the cardioprotective effects of SBP are achieved through the preservation of energy metabolism in the heart tissue of MI rats.
PXD019866	33041868	Proteomic Analysis of Two Weight Classes of Mule Duck "foie gras" at the End of an Overfeeding Period. 	: Proteomic analysis of two weight classes of mule duck "foie gras" at the end of force-feeding period	cell death, cell structure, foie gras, mule duck, oxidative stress	The weight of the liver is one of the important selection criteria in the quality of "foie gras". This factor is highly variable despite the fact that individuals are reared, overfed and slaughtered in the same way. In this study, we performed an analysis of the proteome profile of two weight classes of light (between 550 and 599 g) and heavy (more than 700 g) livers. For the analysis of the proteic extracts, a liquid chromatographic analysis coupled with mass spectrometry was carried out. In low-weight livers, aerobic energy metabolism, protein metabolism and lipid metabolism oriented toward export and beta-oxidation were overexpressed. On the contrary, high weight livers were characterized by anaerobic energy metabolism and a more active protein catabolism associated with cell apoptosis and reorganization of the cell structure.
PXD017874	33042052	Novel Synergistic Mechanism for Lignocellulose Degradation by a Thermophilic Filamentous Fungus and a Thermophilic Actinobacterium Based on Functional Proteomics. 	Proteomics of Thermomyces lanuginosus and Thermobifida fusca	Thermobifida fusca, Thermomyces lanuginosus, lignocellulose, synergistic mechanism, thermophilic	Effective artificial microbial consortia containing microorganisms with desired biological functions have the potential to optimize the lignocellulose-based bioindustry. Thermobifida fusca was a dominant actinobacterium in high-temperature corn stalk composts, but it was unable to grow alone in corn stalk solid medium. Interestingly, T. fusca showed good growth and secreted enzymes when cocultured with Thermomyces lanuginosus. T. lanuginosus grew firstly during the initial stage, whereas T. fusca dominated the system subsequently during cocultivation. The secretome indicated that T. lanuginosus mainly degraded xylan by expressing a GH11 xylanase (g4601.t1, GenBank AAB94633.1; with relative secretion of 4.95 +/- 0.65%). T. fusca was induced by xylan mainly to secrete a xylanase from GH11 family (W8GGR4, GenBank AHK22788.1; with relative secretion of 8.71 +/- 3.83%) which could rapidly degrade xylan to xylo-oligosaccharide (XOS) and xylose within 2 min, while high concentrations (>0.5%, w/v) of XOS or xylose suppressed the growth of T. fusca; which may be the reason why T. fusca unable to grow alone in corn stalk solid medium. However, T. lanuginosus could utilize the XOS and xylose produced by xylanases secreted by T. fusca. During the synergistic degradation of lignocellulose by T. lanuginosus and T. fusca, xylan was rapidly consumed by T. lanuginosus, the residual cellulose could specifically induced T. fusca to express a GH10 xylanase with a CBM2 domain (Q47KR6, GenBank AAZ56956.1; with relative secretion of 5.03 +/- 1.33%) and 6 cellulases (2 exocellulases and 4 endocellulases). Moreover, T. lanuginosus increased the secretion of cellulases from T. fusca by 19-25%. The order of T. lanuginosus and T. fusca was consistent with the multilayered structures of lignocellulose and could be regulated by different concentrations of XOS and xylose. The novel synergism of T. lanuginosus and T. fusca gave a new sight for revealing more synergetic relationships in natural environments and exploring efficient microbial inoculants and enzyme cocktails for lignocellulose degradation.
PXD020446	33042758	Multiresolution Imaging Using Bioluminescence Resonance Energy Transfer Identifies Distinct Biodistribution Profiles of Extracellular Vesicles and Exomeres with Redirected Tropism. 	Multiresolution imaging using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer identifies distinct biodistribution profiles of extracellular vesicles and exomeres with redirected tropism	biodistribution, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, hepatocellular carcinoma, microvesicles, redirected tropism	Extracellular particles (EPs) including extracellular vesicles (EVs) and exomeres play significant roles in diseases and therapeutic applications. However, their spatiotemporal dynamics in vivo have remained largely unresolved in detail due to the lack of a suitable method. Therefore, a bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET)-based reporter, PalmGRET, is created to enable pan-EP labeling ranging from exomeres (<50 nm) to small (<200 nm) and medium and large (>200 nm) EVs. PalmGRET emits robust, sustained signals and allows the visualization, tracking, and quantification of the EPs from whole animal to nanoscopic resolutions under different imaging modalities, including bioluminescence, BRET, and fluorescence. Using PalmGRET, it is shown that EPs released by lung metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) exhibit lung tropism with varying distributions to other major organs in immunocompetent mice. It is further demonstrated that gene knockdown of lung-tropic membrane proteins, solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 2A1, alanine aminopeptidase/Cd13, and chloride intracellular channel 1 decreases HCC-EP distribution to the lungs and yields distinct biodistribution profiles. It is anticipated that EP-specific imaging, quantitative assays, and detailed in vivo characterization are a starting point for more accurate and comprehensive in vivo models of EP biology and therapeutic design.
PXD006410	33043803	Synthetase of the methyl donor S-adenosylmethionine from nitrogen-fixing alpha-rhizobia can bind functionally diverse RNA species. 	Affinity chromatography-based identification of sRNA protein partners in Rhizobia	MS2 aptamer, Sinorhizobium meliloti, trans-sRNAs	Function of bacterial small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) and overall RNA metabolism is largely shaped by a vast diversity of RNA-protein interactions. However, in non-model bacteria with defined non-coding transcriptomes the sRNA interactome remains almost unexplored. We used affinity chromatography to capture proteins associated in vivo with MS2-tagged trans-sRNAs that regulate nutrient uptake (AbcR2 and NfeR1) and cell cycle (EcpR1) mRNAs by antisense-based translational inhibition in the nitrogen-fixing alpha-rhizobia Sinorhizobium meliloti. The three proteomes were rather distinct, with that of EcpR1 particularly enriched in cell cycle-related enzymes, whilst sharing several transcription/translation-related proteins recurrently identified associated with sRNAs. Strikingly, MetK, the synthetase of the major methyl donor S-adenosylmethionine, was reliably recovered as a binding partner of the three sRNAs, which reciprocally co-immunoprecipitated with a FLAG-tagged MetK variant. Induced (over)expression of the trans-sRNAs and MetK depletion did not influence canonical riboregulatory traits, `for example, protein titration or sRNA stability, respectively. An in vitro filter assay confirmed binding of AbcR2, NfeR1 and EcpR1 to MetK and further revealed interaction of the protein with other non-coding and coding transcripts but not with the 5S rRNA. These findings uncover a broad specificity for RNA binding as an unprecedented feature of this housekeeping prokaryotic enzyme.
PXD021123	33045259	Neural cell adhesion molecule 1 is a novel autoantigen in membranous lupus nephritis. 	NCAM1: A Novel Autoantigen in Membranous Lupus Nephritis	DDA, Kidney	Membranous lupus nephritis is a frequent cause of nephrotic syndrome in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. It has been shown in phospholipase A2 receptor positive membranous nephropathy that known antibodies can be detected within sera, determination of the target autoantigen can have diagnostic significance, inform prognosis, and enable non-invasive monitoring of disease activity. Here we utilized mass spectrometry for antigen discovery in laser captured microdissected glomeruli from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded tissue and tissue protein G immunoprecipitation studies to interrogate immune complexes from frozen kidney biopsy tissue. We identified neural cell adhesion molecule 1 (NCAM1) to be a target antigen in some cases of membranous lupus nephritis and within rare cases of primary membranous nephropathy. The prevalence of NCAM1 association was 6.6% of cases of membranous lupus nephritis and in 2.0% of primary membranous nephropathy cases. NCAM1 was found to colocalize with IgG within glomerular immune deposits by confocal microscopy. Additionally, serum from patients with NCAM1-associated membranous nephropathy showed reactivity to NCAM1 recombinant protein on Western blotting and by indirect immunofluorescence assay, demonstrating the presence of circulating antibodies. Thus, we propose that NCAM1 is a target autoantigen in a subset of patients with membranous lupus nephritis. Future studies are needed to determine whether anti-NCAM1 antibody levels correlate with disease activity or response to therapy.
PXD019975	33045833	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Porcine Intestinal Epithelial Cells Infected with Porcine Deltacoronavirus Using iTRAQ-Coupled LC-MS/MS. 	Porcine intestinal epithelial cells	porcine intestine LC-MS/MS	Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is an emergent enteropathogenic coronavirus associated with swine diarrhea. Porcine small intestinal epithelial cells (IPEC) are the primary target cells of PDCoV infection in vivo. Here, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) labeling coupled to liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to quantitatively identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in PDCoV-infected IPEC-J2 cells. A total of 78 DEPs, including 23 upregulated and 55 downregulated proteins, were identified at 24 h postinfection. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD019975. To ensure reliability of the proteomics data, two randomly selected DEPs, the downregulated anaphase-promoting complex subunit 7 (ANAPC7) and upregulated interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1), were verified by real-time PCR and Western blot, and the results of which indicate that the proteomics data were reliable and valid. Bioinformatics analyses, including GO, COG, KEGG, and STRING, further demonstrated that a majority of the DEPs are involved in numerous crucial biological processes and signaling pathways, such as immune system, digestive system, signal transduction, RIG-I-like receptor, mTOR, PI3K-AKT, autophagy, and cell cycle signaling pathways. Altogether, this is the first study on proteomes of PDCoV-infected host cells, which shall provide valuable clues for further investigation of PDCoV pathogenesis.
PXD017089	33046138	Integrative genomic, proteomic and phenotypic studies of Leishmania donovani strains revealed genetic features associated with virulence and antimony-resistance. 	Integrative genomic and proteomic studies of Leishmania donovani strains revealed genetic features associated with drug resistance	Genomic, Leishmania donovani, drug resistance	BACKGROUND: Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease affecting millions of people worldwide. Emerging drug resistance of Leishmania species poses threaten to the effective control and elimination programme of this neglected tropical disease. METHODS: In this work, we conducted drug-resistance testing, whole genome resequencing and proteome profiling for a recently reported clinical isolate with supposed drug resistance (HCZ), and two reference sensitive strains (DD8 and 9044) of Leishmania donovani, to explore molecular mechanisms underlying drug resistance in this parasite. RESULTS: With reference to DD8 and 9044 strains, HCZ isolate showed higher-level virulence and clear resistance to antimonials in promastigote culture, infected macrophages and animal experiment. Pairwise genomic comparisons revealed genetic variations (86 copy number variations, 271 frameshift mutations in protein-coding genes and two site mutations in non-coding genes) in HCZ isolate that were absent from the reference sensitive strains. Proteomic analysis indicated different protein expression between HCZ isolate and reference strains, including 69 exclusively detected proteins and 82 consistently down-/upregulated molecules in the HCZ isolate. Integrative analysis showed linkage of 12 genomic variations (gene duplication, insertion and deletion) and their protein expression changes in HCZ isolate, which might be associated with pathogenic and antimony-resistant phenotype. Functional annotation analyses further indicated that molecules involved in nucleotide-binding, fatty acid metabolism, oxidation-reduction and transport might play a role in host-parasite interaction and drug-resistance. CONCLUSIONS: This comprehensive integrative work provided novel insights into the genetic basis underlying virulence and resistance, suggesting new aspects to be investigated for a better intervention against L. donovani and associated diseases.
PXD015354	33046905	H3K4me2 regulates the recovery of protein biosynthesis and homeostasis following DNA damage. 	H3K4me2 regulates the recovery of protein biosynthesis and homeostasis from UV-induced DNA damage during development and aging	C. elegans, DNA damage, H3K4me2, UV	DNA damage causes cancer, impairs development and accelerates aging. Transcription-blocking lesions and transcription-coupled repair defects lead to developmental failure and premature aging in humans. Following DNA repair, homeostatic processes need to be reestablished to ensure development and maintain tissue functionality. Here, we report that, in Caenorhabditis elegans, removal of the WRAD complex of the MLL/COMPASS H3K4 methyltransferase exacerbates developmental growth retardation and accelerates aging, while depletion of the H3K4 demethylases SPR-5 and AMX-1 promotes developmental growth and extends lifespan amid ultraviolet-induced damage. We demonstrate that DNA-damage-induced H3K4me2 is associated with the activation of genes regulating RNA transport, splicing, ribosome biogenesis and protein homeostasis and regulates the recovery of protein biosynthesis that ensures survival following genotoxic stress. Our study uncovers a role for H3K4me2 in coordinating the recovery of protein biosynthesis and homeostasis required for developmental growth and longevity after DNA damage.
PXD020243	33046907	Regulation of ALT-associated homology-directed repair by polyADP-ribosylation. 	Proteomics of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation uncovers a role for HIRA in the chromatin adaptation at ALT telomeres	Cancer, Chromatin, Histone, PARPs, Telomere	The synthesis of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) reconfigures the local chromatin environment and recruits DNA-repair complexes to damaged chromatin. PAR degradation by poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) is essential for progression and completion of DNA repair. Here, we show that inhibition of PARG disrupts homology-directed repair (HDR) mechanisms that underpin alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). Proteomic analyses uncover a new role for poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation (PARylation) in regulating the chromatin-assembly factor HIRA in ALT cancer cells. We show that HIRA is enriched at telomeres during the G2 phase and is required for histone H3.3 deposition and telomere DNA synthesis. Depletion of HIRA elicits systemic death of ALT cancer cells that is mitigated by re-expression of ATRX, a protein that is frequently inactivated in ALT tumors. We propose that PARylation enables HIRA to fulfill its essential role in the adaptive response to ATRX deficiency that pervades ALT cancers.
PXD017337	33047671	PRDM9 activity depends on HELLS and promotes local 5-hydroxymethylcytosine enrichment. 	Identification of PRDM9 partners	Chromatin, DNA Breaks, Meiosis, Recombination	Meiotic recombination starts with the formation of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) at specific genomic locations that correspond to PRDM9-binding sites. The molecular steps occurring from PRDM9 binding to DSB formation are unknown. Using proteomic approaches to find PRDM9 partners, we identified HELLS, a member of the SNF2-like family of chromatin remodelers. Upon functional analyses during mouse male meiosis, we demonstrated that HELLS is required for PRDM9 binding and DSB activity at PRDM9 sites. However, HELLS is not required for DSB activity at PRDM9-independent sites. HELLS is also essential for 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) enrichment at PRDM9 sites. Analyses of 5hmC in mice deficient for SPO11, which catalyzes DSB formation, and in PRDM9 methyltransferase deficient mice reveal that 5hmC is triggered at DSB-prone sites upon PRDM9 binding and histone modification, but independent of DSB activity. These findings highlight the complex regulation of the chromatin and epigenetic environments at PRDM9-specified hotspots.
PXD010272	33050482	Early Pro-Inflammatory Remodeling of HDL Proteome in a Model of Diet-Induced Obesity: (2)H2O-Metabolic Labeling-Based Kinetic Approach. 	Pro-inflammatory remodeling of high density lipoprotein (HDL) precedes development of dyslipidemia and hepatic steatosis upon exposure to four weeks of high fat diet	density, diet, dyslipidemia, fat, hepatic, high, inflammation, lipoprotien, liver, plasma, steatosis	Mice fed a high-fat diet for 12 weeks or longer develop hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and fatty liver. Additionally, a high-fat diet induces inflammation that remodels and affects the anti-inflammatory and antiatherogenic property of the high-density lipoprotein (HDL). However, the precise time course of metabolic disease progression and HDL remodeling remains unclear. Short-term (four weeks) high-fat feeding (60% fat calories) was performed in wild-type male C57BL/6J mice to gain insights into the early metabolic disease processes in conjunction with a HDL proteome dynamics analysis using a heavy water metabolic labeling approach. The high-fat diet-fed mice developed hyperglycemia, impaired glucose tolerance, hypercholesterolemia without hypertriglyceridemia or hepatic steatosis. A plasma HDL proteome dynamics analysis revealed increased turnover rates (and reduced half-lives) of several acute-phase response proteins involved in innate immunity, including complement C3 (12.77 +/- 0.81 vs. 9.98 +/- 1.20 h, p < 0.005), complement factor B (12.71 +/- 1.01 vs. 10.85 +/- 1.04 h, p < 0.05), complement Factor H (19.60 +/- 1.84 vs. 16.80 +/- 1.58 h, p < 0.05), and complement factor I (25.25 +/- 1.29 vs. 19.88 +/- 1.50 h, p < 0.005). Our findings suggest that an early immune response-induced inflammatory remodeling of the plasma HDL proteome precedes the diet-induced steatosis and dyslipidemia.
PXD019547	33050649	Uveal Melanoma-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Display Transforming Potential and Carry Protein Cargo Involved in Metastatic Niche Preparation. 	Uveal melanoma-derived extracellar vesicles displayed transforming potential and carried portein cargo involved in metastatic niche preparation	Uveal melanoma, extracellular vesicles, liver metastasis	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry molecules derived from donor cells and are able to alter the properties of recipient cells. They are important players during the genesis and progression of tumors. Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular tumor in adults and is associated with a high rate of metastasis, primarily to the liver. However, the mechanisms underlying this process are poorly understood. In the present study, we analyzed the oncogenic potential of UM-derived EVs and their protein signature. We isolated and characterized EVs from five UM cell lines and from normal choroidal melanocytes (NCMs). BRCA1-deficient fibroblasts (Fibro-BKO) were exposed to the EVs and analyzed for their growth in vitro and their reprograming potential in vivo following inoculation into NOD-SCID mice. Mass spectrometry of proteins from UM-EVs and NCM-EVs was performed to determine a protein signature that could elucidate potential key players in UM progression. In-depth analyses showed the presence of exosomal markers, and proteins involved in cell-cell and focal adhesion, endocytosis, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. Notably, we observed high expression levels of HSP90, HSP70 and integrin V in UM-EVs. Our data bring new evidence on the involvement of UM-EVs in cancer progression and metastasis.
PXD020992	33053319	A Structural Model of the Endogenous Human BAF Complex Informs Disease Mechanisms. 	A structural model of the human mSWI/SNF (BAF) complex bound to the nucleosome informs disease mechanisms	ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling, Mammalian SWI/SNF, canonical BAF complex, cryo-EM, homology model, human disease, mutations, nucleosome acidic patch, yeast SWI/SNF	Mammalian SWI/SNF complexes are ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes that regulate genomic architecture. Here, we present a structural model of the endogenously purified human canonical BAF complex bound to the nucleosome, generated using cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM), cross-linking mass spectrometry, and homology modeling. BAF complexes bilaterally engage the nucleosome H2A/H2B acidic patch regions through the SMARCB1 C-terminal alpha-helix and the SMARCA4/2 C-terminal SnAc/post-SnAc regions, with disease-associated mutations in either causing attenuated chromatin remodeling activities. Further, we define changes in BAF complex architecture upon nucleosome engagement and compare the structural model of endogenous BAF to those of related SWI/SNF-family complexes. Finally, we assign and experimentally interrogate cancer-associated hot-spot mutations localizing within the endogenous human BAF complex, identifying those that disrupt BAF subunit-subunit and subunit-nucleosome interfaces in the nucleosome-bound conformation. Taken together, this integrative structural approach provides important biophysical foundations for understanding the mechanisms of BAF complex function in normal and disease states.
PXD017365	33053346	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of Lytic KSHV Infection in Human Endothelial Cells Reveals Targets of Viral Immune Modulation. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of lytic KSHV infection in human endothelial cells reveals novel targets of viral immune modulation	Immune modulation, KSHV	Kaposi's sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV) is an oncogenic human virus and the leading cause of mortality in HIV infection. KSHV reactivation from latent- to lytic-stage infection initiates a cascade of viral gene expression. Here we show how these changes remodel the host cell proteome to enable viral replication. By undertaking a systematic and unbiased analysis of changes to the endothelial cell proteome following KSHV reactivation, we quantify >7,000 cellular proteins and 71 viral proteins and provide a temporal profile of protein changes during the course of lytic KSHV infection. Lytic KSHV induces >2-fold downregulation of 291 cellular proteins, including PKR, the key cellular sensor of double-stranded RNA. Despite the multiple episomes per cell, CRISPR-Cas9 efficiently targets KSHV genomes. A complementary KSHV genome-wide CRISPR genetic screen identifies K5 as the viral gene responsible for the downregulation of two KSHV targets, Nectin-2 and CD155, ligands of the NK cell DNAM-1 receptor.
PXD020670	33053347	Glycometabolic Regulation of the Biogenesis of Small Extracellular Vesicles. 	Glycometabolic regulation of the biogenesis of small extracellular vesicles	exosome	The biogenesis of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) is regulated by multiple molecular machineries generating considerably heterogeneous vesicle populations, including exosomes and non-exosomal vesicles, with distinct cargo molecules. However, the role of carbohydrate metabolism in generating such vesicle heterogeneity remains largely elusive. Here, we discover that 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG), a well-known glycolysis inhibitor, suppresses the secretion of non-exosomal vesicles by impairing asparagine-linked glycosylation (N-glycosylation) in mouse melanoma cells. Mechanistically, 2-DG is metabolically incorporated into N-glycan precursors, causing precursor degradation and partial hypoglycosylation. N-glycosylation blockade by Stt3a silencing is sufficient to inhibit non-exosomal vesicle secretion. In contrast, N-glycosylation blockade barely influences exosomal secretion of tetraspanin proteins. Functionally, N-glycosylation at specific sites of the hepatocyte growth factor receptor, a cargo protein of non-exosomal vesicles, facilitates its sorting into vesicles. These results uncover a link between N-glycosylation and unconventional vesicle secretion and suggest that N-glycosylation facilitates sEV biogenesis through cargo protein sorting.
PXD015978	33053349	Activation of the CARD8 Inflammasome Requires a Disordered Region. 	 Global proteomics of HEK293T cells treated with Val-boroPro for 48h	TMTsixplex, Val-boroPro	Several cytosolic pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs) form multiprotein complexes called canonical inflammasomes in response to intracellular danger signals. Canonical inflammasomes recruit and activate caspase-1 (CASP1), which in turn cleaves and activates inflammatory cytokines and gasdermin D (GSDMD), inducing pyroptotic cell death. Inhibitors of the dipeptidyl peptidases DPP8 and DPP9 (DPP8/9) activate both the human NLRP1 and CARD8 inflammasomes. NLRP1 and CARD8 have different N-terminal regions but have similar C-terminal regions that undergo autoproteolysis to generate two non-covalently associated fragments. Here, we show that DPP8/9 inhibition activates a proteasomal degradation pathway that targets disordered and misfolded proteins for destruction. CARD8's N terminus contains a disordered region of ~160 amino acids that is recognized and destroyed by this degradation pathway, thereby freeing its C-terminal fragment to activate CASP1 and induce pyroptosis. Thus, CARD8 serves as an alarm to signal the activation of a degradation pathway for disordered and misfolded proteins.
PXD015269	33053376	A Comprehensive Subcellular Atlas of the Toxoplasma Proteome via hyperLOPIT Provides Spatial Context for Protein Functions. 	High-resolution spatial proteome map of Toxoplasma gondii extracellular tachyzoite	Apicomplexa, SPS-MS3, TMT10plex, Toxoplasma gondii, compartments, localisation, localization, machine learning, organelles, parasite, protist, spatial, sub-cellular, subcellular	Apicomplexan parasites cause major human disease and food insecurity. They owe their considerable success to highly specialized cell compartments and structures. These adaptations drive their recognition, nondestructive penetration, and elaborate reengineering of the host's cells to promote their growth, dissemination, and the countering of host defenses. The evolution of unique apicomplexan cellular compartments is concomitant with vast proteomic novelty. Consequently, half of apicomplexan proteins are unique and uncharacterized. Here, we determine the steady-state subcellular location of thousands of proteins simultaneously within the globally prevalent apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. This provides unprecedented comprehensive molecular definition of these unicellular eukaryotes and their specialized compartments, and these data reveal the spatial organizations of protein expression and function, adaptation to hosts, and the underlying evolutionary trajectories of these pathogens.
PXD020669	33054160	Improved Sensitivity of Ultralow Flow LC-MS-Based Proteomic Profiling of Limited Samples Using Monolithic Capillary Columns and FAIMS Technology. 	Improved sensitivity of ultra-low flow LC-MS-based proteomic profiling of limited samples using monolithic capillary columns and FAIMS technology	FAIMS, LC-MS, monolithic column, proteomic analysis, ultra-low flow LC	In this work, we pioneered a combination of ultralow flow (ULF) high-efficiency ultranarrow bore monolithic LC columns coupled to MS via a high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) interface to evaluate the potential applicability for high sensitivity, robust, and reproducible proteomic profiling of low nanogram-level complex biological samples. As a result, ULF LC-FAIMS-MS brought unprecedented sensitivity levels and high reproducibility in bottom-up proteomic profiling. In addition, FAIMS improved the dynamic range, signal-to-noise ratios, and detection limits in ULF LC-MS-based measurements by significantly reducing chemical noise in comparison to the conventional nanoESI interface used with the same ULF LC-MS setup. Two, three, or four compensation voltages separated by at least 15 V were tested within a single LC-MS run using the FAIMS interface. The optimized ULF LC-ESI-FAIMS-MS/MS conditions resulted in identification of 2,348 +/- 42 protein groups, 10,062 +/- 285 peptide groups, and 15,734 +/- 350 peptide-spectrum matches for 1 ng of a HeLa digest, using a 1 h gradient at the flow rate of 12 nL/min, which represents an increase by 38%, 91%, and 131% in respective identifications, as compared to the control experiment (without FAIMS). To evaluate the practical utility of the ULF LC-ESI-FAIMS-MS platform in proteomic profiling of limited samples, approximately 100, 1,000, and 10,000 U937 myeloid leukemia cells were processed, and a one-tenth of each sample was analyzed. Using the optimized conditions, we were able to reliably identify 251 +/- 54, 1,135 +/- 80, and 2,234 +/- 25 protein groups from injected aliquots corresponding to ~10, 100, and 1,000 processed cells.
PXD020807	33054241	Temporal Proteomic Profiling of SH-SY5Y Differentiation with Retinoic Acid Using FAIMS and Real-Time Searching. 	Temporal proteomic profiling of SH-SY5Y differentiation with retinoic acid using a FAIMS and Real-Time Searching strategy	ATRA, Eclipse, Multi-Notch, SPS-MS3, TMTpro, retinoic acid	The SH-SY5Y cell line is often used as a surrogate for neurons in cell-based studies. This cell line is frequently differentiated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) over a 7-day period, which confers neuron-like properties to the cells. However, no analysis of proteome remodeling has followed the progress of this transition. Here, we quantitatively profiled over 9400 proteins across a 7-day treatment with retinoic acid using state-of-the-art mass spectrometry-based proteomics technologies, including FAIMS, real-time database searching, and TMTpro16 sample multiplexing. Gene ontology analysis revealed that categories with the highest increases in protein abundance were related to the plasma membrane/extracellular space. To showcase our data set, we surveyed the protein abundance profiles linked to neurofilament bundle assembly, neuron projections, and neuronal cell body formation. These proteins exhibited increases in abundance level, yet we observed multiple patterns among the queried proteins. The data presented represent a rich resource for investigating temporal protein abundance changes in SH-SY5Y cells differentiated with retinoic acid. Moreover, the sample preparation and data acquisition strategies used here can be readily applied to any analogous cell line differentiation analysis.
PXD018050	33057088	An integrated analysis of Maglemose bone points reframes the Early Mesolithic of Southern Scandinavia. 	Barbed bone point chronology reveals an unexpected hiatus in the archaeology of Southern Scandinavia around 10,300 years BP	Bone points, LC-MS, MALDI-TOF, archaeology, cervids, palaeoproteomics	The extensive peat bogs of Southern Scandinavia have yielded rich Mesolithic archaeological assemblages, with one of the most iconic artefacts being the bone point. Although great in number they remain understudied. Here we present a combined investigation of the typology, protein-based species composition, and absolute chronology of Maglemosian bone points. The majority of the bone points are made from cervids and bovines. However, changes both in species composition and barb morphology can be directly linked to a paucity of finds lasting nearly 600 years in Southern Scandinavia around 10,300 cal BP. We hypothesize that this hiatus was climate-driven and forced hunter-gatherers to abandon the lakes. Furthermore, the marked change in bone points coincides with a change in lithic technology. We, therefore, propose that the Maglemose culture in Southern Scandinavia is fundamentally divided into an Early Complex and a Late Complex.
PXD021057	33058421	NEDD4L-mediated Merlin ubiquitination facilitates Hippo pathway activation. 	Identification of Merlin ubiquitination sites	Calcium, Merlin, NF2, ubiquitin, ubiquitination	The tumor suppressor Merlin/NF2, a key activator of the Hippo pathway in growth control, is regulated by phosphorylation. However, it is uncertain whether additional post-translational modifications regulate Merlin. Here, we show that ubiquitination is required to activate Merlin in the Hippo pathway. Ubiquitinated Merlin is mostly conjugated by one or two ubiquitin molecules. Such modification is promoted by serine 518 dephosphorylation in response to Ca(2+) signaling or cell detachment. Merlin ubiquitination is mediated by the E3 ubiquitin ligase, NEDD4L, which requires a scaffold protein, AMOTL1, to approach Merlin. Several NF2-patient-derived Merlin mutations disrupt its binding to AMOTL1 and its regulation by the AMOTL1-NEDD4L apparatus. Lysine (K) 396 is the major ubiquitin conjugation residue. Disruption of Merlin ubiquitination by the K396R mutation or NEDD4L depletion diminishes its binding to Lats1 and inhibits Lats1 activation. These effects are also accompanied by loss of Merlin's anti-mitogenic and tumor suppressive properties. Thus, we propose that dephosphorylation and ubiquitination compose an intramolecular relay to activate Merlin functions in activating the Hippo pathway during growth control.
PXD016686	33060572	Engineering Af1521 improves ADP-ribose binding and identification of ADP-ribosylated proteins. 	Engineering Af1521 macro domain increases ADP-ribose binding affinity and leads to the identification of more ADP-ribosylated proteins	ADP-ribosylation, AP-MS, Af1521 macro domain	Protein ADP-ribosylation is a reversible post-translational modification that regulates important cellular functions. The identification of modified proteins has proven challenging and has mainly been achieved via enrichment methodologies. Random mutagenesis was used here to develop an engineered Af1521 ADP-ribose binding macro domain protein with 1000-fold increased affinity towards ADP-ribose. The crystal structure reveals that two point mutations K35E and Y145R form a salt bridge within the ADP-ribose binding domain. This forces the proximal ribose to rotate within the binding pocket and, as a consequence, improves engineered Af1521 ADPr-binding affinity. Its use in our proteomic ADP-ribosylome workflow increases the ADP-ribosylated protein identification rates and yields greater ADP-ribosylome coverage. Furthermore, generation of an engineered Af1521 Fc fusion protein confirms the improved detection of cellular ADP-ribosylation by immunoblot and immunofluorescence. Thus, this engineered isoform of Af1521 can also serve as a valuable tool for the analysis of cellular ADP-ribosylation under in vivo conditions.
PXD017847	33060577	Specific features and assembly of the plant mitochondrial complex I revealed by cryo-EM. 	Specific features and assembly of the plant mitochondrial complex I revealed by cryo-EM	complex I, cryo-EM, mitochondria, plant, shotgun proteomics	Mitochondria are the powerhouses of eukaryotic cells and the site of essential metabolic reactions. Complex I or NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase is the main entry site for electrons into the mitochondrial respiratory chain and constitutes the largest of the respiratory complexes. Its structure and composition vary across eukaryote species. However, high resolution structures are available only for one group of eukaryotes, opisthokonts. In plants, only biochemical studies were carried out, already hinting at the peculiar composition of complex I in the green lineage. Here, we report several cryo-electron microscopy structures of the plant mitochondrial complex I. We describe the structure and composition of the plant respiratory complex I, including the ancestral mitochondrial domain composed of the carbonic anhydrase. We show that the carbonic anhydrase is a heterotrimeric complex with only one conserved active site. This domain is crucial for the overall stability of complex I as well as a peculiar lipid complex composed of cardiolipin and phosphatidylinositols. Moreover, we also describe the structure of one of the plant-specific complex I assembly intermediates, lacking the whole PD module, in presence of the maturation factor GLDH. GLDH prevents the binding of the plant specific P1 protein, responsible for the linkage of the PP to the PD module.
PXD017285	33060738	Cell-free DNA in plasma as an essential immune system regulator. 	Exposure of THP1 cells to plasma containing or lacking cfDNA	THP1 cells, cfDNA, plasma	The cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is always present in plasma, and it is biomarker of growing interest in prenatal diagnostics as well as in oncology and transplantology for therapy efficiency monitoring. But does this cfDNA have a physiological role? Here we show that cfDNA presence and clearance in plasma of healthy individuals plays an indispensable role in immune system regulation. We exposed THP1 cells to healthy individuals' plasma with (NP) and without (TP) cfDNA. In cells treated with NP, we found elevated expression of genes whose products maintain immune system homeostasis. Exposure of cells to TP triggered an innate immune response (IIR), documented particularly by elevated expression of pro-inflammatory interleukin 8. The results of mass spectrometry showed a higher abundance of proteins associated with IIR activation due to the regulation of complement cascade in cells cultivated with TP. These expression profiles provide evidence that the presence of cfDNA and its clearance in plasma of healthy individuals regulate fundamental mechanisms of the inflammation process and tissue homeostasis. The detailed understanding how neutrophil extracellular traps and their naturally occurring degradation products affect the performance of immune system is of crucial interest for future medical applications.
PXD017073	33062444	Metabolomics analysis identifies metabolites associated with systemic acquired resistance in Arabidopsis. 	Metabolomic analysis identifies metabolites associated with systemic acquired resistance in Arabidopsis	Amino acids, Metabolomics, Phenolic compounds, Systemic acquired resistance	BACKGROUND: Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is a type of plant defense response that provides a long-lasting resistance to broad-spectrum pathogens in uninfected distal tissues following an initial localized infection. However, little information is available at present on the biological basis of SAR at the molecular level, especially in uninfected distal leaves. METHODS: In the present work, we used two SAR-inducing pathogens, avirulent Pseudomonas syringae pv. maculicola ES4326 harboring avrRpm1 (Psm avrRpm1) and virulent P. syringae pv. maculicola ES4326 (Psm ES4326), to induce SAR in Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0. A metabolomics approach based on ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) coupled with mass spectrometry (MS) was used to identify SAR-related metabolites in infected local leaves, and in uninfected distal leaves. RESULTS: Differentially accumulated metabolites were distinguished by statistical analyses. The results showed that both the primary metabolism and the secondary metabolism were significantly altered in infected local leaves and in uninfected distal leaves, including phenolic compounds, amino acids, nucleotides, organic acids, and many other metabolites. CONCLUSIONS: The content of amino acids and phenolic compounds increased in uninfected distal leaves, suggesting their contribution to the establishment of SAR. In addition, 2'-hydroxy-4, 4', 6'-trimethoxychalcone, phenylalanine, and p-coumaric acid were identified as potential components which may play important roles both in basic resistance and in SAR. This work provides a reference for understanding of the metabolic mechanism associated with SAR in plants, which will be useful for further investigation of the molecular basis of the systemic immunity.
PXD012169	33063662	Postnatal mechanical loading drives adaptation of tissues primarily through modulation of the non-collagenous matrix. 	Equine energy-storing SDFT tendon development, Proteomic analysis of IFM and fascicles through development	IFM, SDFT, energy-storing, equine, fascicle, tendon	Mature connective tissues demonstrate highly specialised properties, remarkably adapted to meet their functional requirements. Tissue adaptation to environmental cues can occur throughout life and poor adaptation commonly results in injury. However, the temporal nature and drivers of functional adaptation remain undefined. Here, we explore functional adaptation and specialisation of mechanically loaded tissues using tendon; a simple aligned biological composite, in which the collagen (fascicle) and surrounding predominantly non-collagenous matrix (interfascicular matrix) can be interrogated independently. Using an equine model of late development, we report the first phase-specific analysis of biomechanical, structural, and compositional changes seen in functional adaptation, demonstrating adaptation occurs postnatally, following mechanical loading, and is almost exclusively localised to the non-collagenous interfascicular matrix. These novel data redefine adaptation in connective tissue, highlighting the fundamental importance of non-collagenous matrix and suggesting that regenerative medicine strategies should change focus from the fibrous to the non-collagenous matrix of tissue.
PXD021759	33066717	Enhanced Catecholamine Flux and Impaired Carbonyl Metabolism Disrupt Cardiac Mitochondrial Oxidative Phosphorylation in Diabetes Patients. 	Catechol-modified protein extracts from human heart mitochondria after APBA chromatography	MAO, atrial mitocardium, atrial tissue, cardiomyopathy, catecholamine metabolism, mitochondrial proteomics, type 2 diabetes	Aims: Catecholamine metabolism via monoamine oxidase (MAO) contributes to cardiac injury in models of ischemia and diabetes, but the pathogenic mechanisms involved are unclear. MAO deaminates norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine to produce H2O2 and highly reactive "catecholaldehydes," which may be toxic to mitochondria due to the localization of MAO to the outer mitochondrial membrane. We performed a comprehensive analysis of catecholamine metabolism and its impact on mitochondrial energetics in atrial myocardium obtained from patients with and without type 2 diabetes. Results: Content and maximal activity of MAO-A and MAO-B were higher in the myocardium of patients with diabetes and they were associated with body mass index. Metabolomic analysis of atrial tissue from these patients showed decreased catecholamine levels in the myocardium, supporting an increased flux through MAOs. Catecholaldehyde-modified protein adducts were more abundant in myocardial tissue extracts from patients with diabetes and were confirmed to be MAO dependent. NE treatment suppressed mitochondrial ATP production in permeabilized myofibers from patients with diabetes in an MAO-dependent manner. Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity was substantially decreased in atrial myocardium from these patients, and metabolomics confirmed lower levels of ALDH-catalyzed catecholamine metabolites. Proteomic analysis of catechol-modified proteins in isolated cardiac mitochondria from these patients identified >300 mitochondrial proteins to be potential targets of these unique carbonyls. Innovation and Conclusion: These findings illustrate a unique form of carbonyl toxicity driven by MAO-mediated metabolism of catecholamines, and they reveal pathogenic factors underlying cardiometabolic disease. Importantly, they suggest that pharmacotherapies targeting aldehyde stress and catecholamine metabolism in heart may be beneficial in patients with diabetes and cardiac disease. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 35, 235-251.
PXD021417	33067342	OpenPepXL: An Open-Source Tool for Sensitive Identification of Cross-Linked Peptides in XL-MS. 	Reanalysis of a synthetic cross-linked peptide library with OpenPepXL for benchmarking purposes	Technical dataset	Cross-linking MS (XL-MS) has been recognized as an effective source of information about protein structures and interactions. In contrast to regular peptide identification, XL-MS has to deal with a quadratic search space, where peptides from every protein could potentially be cross-linked to any other protein. To cope with this search space, most tools apply different heuristics for search space reduction. We introduce a new open-source XL-MS database search algorithm, OpenPepXL, which offers increased sensitivity compared with other tools. OpenPepXL searches the full search space of an XL-MS experiment without using heuristics to reduce it. Because of efficient data structures and built-in parallelization OpenPepXL achieves excellent runtimes and can also be deployed on large compute clusters and cloud services while maintaining a slim memory footprint. We compared OpenPepXL to several other commonly used tools for identification of noncleavable labeled and label-free cross-linkers on a diverse set of XL-MS experiments. In our first comparison, we used a data set from a fraction of a cell lysate with a protein database of 128 targets and 128 decoys. At 5% FDR, OpenPepXL finds from 7% to over 50% more unique residue pairs (URPs) than other tools. On data sets with available high-resolution structures for cross-link validation OpenPepXL reports from 7% to over 40% more structurally validated URPs than other tools. Additionally, we used a synthetic peptide data set that allows objective validation of cross-links without relying on structural information and found that OpenPepXL reports at least 12% more validated URPs than other tools. It has been built as part of the OpenMS suite of tools and supports Windows, macOS, and Linux operating systems. OpenPepXL also supports the MzIdentML 1.2 format for XL-MS identification results. It is freely available under a three-clause BSD license at https://openms.org/openpepxl.
PXD021622	33067390	Mapping glycan-mediated galectin-3 interactions by live cell proximity labeling. 	Mapping glycan-mediated galectin-3 interactions by live cell proximity labeling	galectins, proximity labeling	Galectin-3 is a glycan-binding protein (GBP) that binds beta-galactoside glycan structures to orchestrate a variety of important biological events, including the activation of hepatic stellate cells and regulation of immune responses. While the requisite glycan epitopes needed to bind galectin-3 have long been elucidated, the cellular glycoproteins that bear these glycan signatures remain unknown. Given the importance of the three-dimensional (3D) arrangement of glycans in dictating GBP interactions, strategies that allow the identification of GBP receptors in live cells, where the native glycan presentation and glycoprotein expression are preserved, have significant advantages over static and artificial systems. Here we describe the integration of a proximity labeling method and quantitative mass spectrometry to map the glycan and glycoprotein interactors for galectin-3 in live human hepatic stellate cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Understanding the identity of the glycoproteins and defining the structures of the glycans will empower efforts to design and develop selective therapeutics to mitigate galectin-3-mediated biological events.
PXD020290	33067435	Analysis of protein-DNA interactions in chromatin by UV induced cross-linking and mass spectrometry. 	Analysis of protein-DNA interactions in chromatin by UV induced cross-linking and mass spectrometry	Protein-DNA Interactions, UV-Cross-Linking	Protein-DNA interactions are key to the functionality and stability of the genome. Identification and mapping of protein-DNA interaction interfaces and sites is crucial for understanding DNA-dependent processes. Here, we present a workflow that allows mass spectrometric (MS) identification of proteins in direct contact with DNA in reconstituted and native chromatin after cross-linking by ultraviolet (UV) light. Our approach enables the determination of contact interfaces at amino-acid level. With the example of chromatin-associated protein SCML2 we show that our technique allows differentiation of nucleosome-binding interfaces in distinct states. By UV cross-linking of isolated nuclei we determined the cross-linking sites of several factors including chromatin-modifying enzymes, demonstrating that our workflow is not restricted to reconstituted materials. As our approach can distinguish between protein-RNA and DNA interactions in one single experiment, we project that it will be possible to obtain insights into chromatin and its regulation in the future.
PXD020953	33067471	DIALib-QC an assessment tool for spectral libraries in data-independent acquisition proteomics. 	The DIALib-QC software tool for the systematic assessment of spectral library quality in data-independent acquisition proteomics	DIA, DIALib-QC, SWATH-MS, Spectral library	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry, also known as Sequential Window Acquisition of all Theoretical Mass Spectra (SWATH), is a popular label-free proteomics strategy to comprehensively quantify peptides/proteins utilizing mass spectral libraries to decipher inherently multiplexed spectra collected linearly across a mass range. Although there are many spectral libraries produced worldwide, the quality control of these libraries is lacking. We present the DIALib-QC (DIA library quality control) software tool for the systematic evaluation of a library's characteristics, completeness and correctness across 62 parameters of compliance, and further provide the option to improve its quality. We demonstrate its utility in assessing and repairing spectral libraries for correctness, accuracy and sensitivity.
PXD020724	33071997	The Composition and the Structure of MCC/Eisosomes in Neurospora crassa. 	Neurospora crassa eisosome LC-MS	MS, Neurospora crassa, eisosome	MCC/eisosomes are protein-organized domains in the plasma membrane of fungi and algae. However, the composition and function(s) of MCC/eisosomes in the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa were previously unknown. To identify proteins that localize to MCC/eisosomes in N. crassa, we isolated proteins that co-purified with the core MCC/eisosome protein LSP-1, which was tagged with GFP. Proteins that co-fractionated with LSP-1:GFP were then identified by mass spectrometry. Eighteen proteins were GFP-tagged and used to identify six proteins that highly colocalized with the MCC/eisosome marker LSP-1:RFP, while five other proteins showed partial overlap with MCC/eisosomes. Seven of these proteins showed amino acid sequence homology with proteins known to localize to MCC/eisosomes in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. However, homologs of three proteins known to localize to MCC/eisosomes in S. cerevisiae (Can1, Pkh1/2, and Fhn1) were not found to colocalize with MCC/eisosome proteins in N. crassa by fluorescence microscopy. Interestingly, one new eisosome protein (glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase, gene ID: NCU07366) was detected in our studies. These findings demonstrate that there are interspecies differences of the protein composition of MCC/eisosomes. To gain further insight, molecular modeling and bioinformatics analysis of the identified proteins were used to propose the organization of MCC/eisosomes in N. crassa. A model will be discussed for how the broad range of functions predicted for the proteins localized to MCC/eisosomes, including cell wall synthesis, response and signaling, transmembrane transport, and actin organization, suggests that MCC/eisosomes act as organizing centers in the plasma membrane.
PXD019116	33072014	Identification and Analysis of the Tegument Protein and Excretory-Secretory Products of the Carcinogenic Liver Fluke Clonorchis sinensis. 	Identification and analysis of the tegumental protein and excretory-secretory products of the carcinogenic liver fluke Clonorchis sinensis	C. sinensis, biotinylation, cholangiocarcinoma, tegument	Liver fluke proteins, including excretory-secretory products (ESPs) and tegument proteins, are critical for the pathogenesis, nutrient metabolism, etiology and immune response of liver cancer. To understand the functions of various proteins in Clonorchis sinensis physiology and human clonorchiasis, the ESPs and tegument proteins of C. sinensis were identified. Supernatants containing ESPs from adult C. sinensis after culture for 6 h were harvested and concentrated. The tegument was detached using a freeze/thaw method and successively extracted using various extraction buffers. The outer surface proteins of C. sinensis were labeled with biotin, and the biotinylated proteins were purified. The ESP, tegument and labeled outer surface proteins were identified and analyzed by high-resolution LC-MS/MS. The identified proteins were compared with those of other flukes, and the protein functions associated with pathogenesis, carcinogenesis and potential vaccine antigens and drug targets were predicted and analyzed. A total of 175 proteins were identified after the 6-h culture of C. sinensis ESPs. A total of 352 tegument proteins were identified through sequential solubilization of the isolated teguments, and a subset of these proteins were localized to the surface membrane of the tegument by labeling with biotin. Thirty identified proteins, including annexins, actin and tetraspanins, were identified as potential immunomodulators and promising vaccine antigens. Interestingly, among the 352 tegument proteins, as many as 155 were enzymes, and most were oxidoreductases, hydrolases or transferases. A comparison of the outer surface proteins of C. sinensis with those of other flukes indicated that flukes have some common outer surface proteins, such as actin, tetraspanin, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and annexin. Granulin, thioredoxin peroxiredoxin, carbonyl reductase 1 and cystatin were identified in the C. sinensis proteome and predicted to be related to liver disease and cancer. The analysis of the C. sinensis proteome could contribute to a more in-depth understanding of complex parasite-host relationships, improve the diagnosis of clonorchiasis and benefit research on the pathogenesis and development of novel interventions, drugs and vaccines to control C. sinensis infection.
PXD025893	33072102	Elucidation of the Signatures of Proteasome-Catalyzed Peptide Splicing. 	Elucidation of the Signatures of Proteasome-Catalyzed Peptide Splicing	Peptide spliicng, antigen processing, proteasome	Proteasomes catalyze the degradation of endogenous proteins into oligopeptides, but can concurrently create spliced oligopeptides through ligation of previously non-contiguous peptide fragments. Recent studies have uncovered a formerly unappreciated role for proteasome-catalyzed peptide splicing (PCPS) in the generation of non-genomically templated human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I)-bound cis-spliced peptides that can be targeted by CD8(+) T cells in cancer and infection. However, the mechanisms defining PCPS reactions are poorly understood. Here, we experimentally define the biochemical constraints of proteasome-catalyzed cis-splicing reactions by examination of in vitro proteasomal digests of a panel of viral- and self-derived polypeptide substrates using a tailored mass-spectrometry-based de novo sequencing workflow. We show that forward and reverse PCPS reactions display unique splicing signatures, defined by preferential fusion of distinct amino acid residues with stringent peptide length distributions, suggesting sequence- and size-dependent accessibility of splice reactants for proteasomal substrate binding pockets. Our data provide the basis for a more informed mechanistic understanding of PCPS that will facilitate future prediction of spliced peptides from protein sequences.
PXD018152	33073088	proteiNorm - A User-Friendly Tool for Normalization and Analysis of TMT and Label-Free Protein Quantification. 	proteiNorm - A user-friendly tool for normalization and analysis of TMT and label-free protein quantification	Differential analysis, Normalization	The technological advances in mass spectrometry allow us to collect more comprehensive data with higher quality and increasing speed. With the rapidly increasing amount of data generated, the need for streamlining analyses becomes more apparent. Proteomics data is known to be often affected by systemic bias from unknown sources, and failing to adequately normalize the data can lead to erroneous conclusions. To allow researchers to easily evaluate and compare different normalization methods via a user-friendly interface, we have developed "proteiNorm". The current implementation of proteiNorm accommodates preliminary filters on peptide and sample levels followed by an evaluation of several popular normalization methods and visualization of the missing value. The user then selects an adequate normalization method and one of the several imputation methods used for the subsequent comparison of different differential expression methods and estimation of statistical power. The application of proteiNorm and interpretation of its results are demonstrated on two tandem mass tag multiplex (TMT6plex and TMT10plex) and one label-free spike-in mass spectrometry example data set. The three data sets reveal how the normalization methods perform differently on different experimental designs and the need for evaluation of normalization methods for each mass spectrometry experiment. With proteiNorm, we provide a user-friendly tool to identify an adequate normalization method and to select an appropriate method for differential expression analysis.
PXD020058	33073387	Protein structure, amino acid composition and sequence determine proteome vulnerability to oxidation-induced damage. 	Unraveling Oxidative Stress Resistance: Molecular Properties Govern Proteome Vulnerability	Deinococcus radiodurans, Escherichia coli, carbonylation, irradiation, redox proteomics	Oxidative stress alters cell viability, from microorganism irradiation sensitivity to human aging and neurodegeneration. Deleterious effects of protein carbonylation by reactive oxygen species (ROS) make understanding molecular properties determining ROS susceptibility essential. The radiation-resistant bacterium Deinococcus radiodurans accumulates less carbonylation than sensitive organisms, making it a key model for deciphering properties governing oxidative stress resistance. We integrated shotgun redox proteomics, structural systems biology, and machine learning to resolve properties determining protein damage by gamma-irradiation in Escherichia coli and D. radiodurans at multiple scales. Local accessibility, charge, and lysine enrichment accurately predict ROS susceptibility. Lysine, methionine, and cysteine usage also contribute to ROS resistance of the D. radiodurans proteome. Our model predicts proteome maintenance machinery, and proteins protecting against ROS are more resistant in D. radiodurans. Our findings substantiate that protein-intrinsic protection impacts oxidative stress resistance, identifying causal molecular properties.
PXD016826	33073402	Human shelterin protein POT1 prevents severe telomere instability induced by homology-directed DNA repair. 	Human POT1 Prevents Severe Telomere Damage Instability Induced by Homology Directed DNA Repair	Homology-directed DNA repair, Telomeres, affinity purification, tandem mass tags	The evolutionarily conserved POT1 protein binds single-stranded G-rich telomeric DNA and has been implicated in contributing to telomeric DNA maintenance and the suppression of DNA damage checkpoint signaling. Here, we explore human POT1 function through genetics and proteomics, discovering that a complete absence of POT1 leads to severe telomere maintenance defects that had not been anticipated from previous depletion studies in human cells. Conditional deletion of POT1 in HEK293E cells gives rise to rapid telomere elongation and length heterogeneity, branched telomeric DNA structures, telomeric R-loops, and telomere fragility. We determine the telomeric proteome upon POT1-loss, implementing an improved telomeric chromatin isolation protocol. We identify a large set of proteins involved in nucleic acid metabolism that engage with telomeres upon POT1-loss. Inactivation of the homology-directed repair machinery suppresses POT1-loss-mediated telomeric DNA defects. Our results unravel as major function of human POT1 the suppression of telomere instability induced by homology-directed repair.
PXD020861	33074658	Glass Fiber-Supported Hybrid Monolithic Spin Tip for Enrichment of Phosphopeptides from Urinary Extracellular Vesicles. 	PhosTip for Enrichment of Phosphopeptides from Urinary Extracellular Vesicles	Phosphopeptides, Extracellular Vesicles,Biomarker	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are attracting increasing interest with their intriguing role in intercellular communications. Protein phosphorylation in EVs is of great importance for understanding intercellular signaling processes. However, the study of EV phosphoproteomics is impeded by their relatively low amount in limited clinical sample volumes, and it is necessary to have a sensitive and efficient enrichment method for EV phosphopeptides. Herein, a novel Ti(IV)-functionalized and glass fiber-supported hybrid monolithic spin tip, termed PhosTip, was prepared for enriching phosphopeptides from urinary EVs. Glass fiber as the stationary phase positions the hybrid monolith in a standard pipet tip and prevents the monolith from distortion during experiments. The preparation procedure for the new PhosTip is simple and time-saving. The hybrid monolithic PhosTip provides excellent enrichment efficiency of low-abundance phosphopeptides from cell digests and urinary EVs with minimum contamination and sample loss. Using the PhosTip, we demonstrate that 5373 and 336 unique phosphopeptides were identified from 100 and 1 mug of cell lysates, while 3919 and 217 unique phosphopeptides were successfully identified from 10 and 1 mL of urinary samples, respectively. The PhosTip was finally applied to enrich phosphopeptides in urine EVs from prostate cancer patients and healthy controls and quantify 118 up-regulated proteins with phosphosites in prostate cancer samples. These results demonstrated that the PhosTip could be a simple and convenient tool for enriching phosphopeptides from clinical samples and for broader applications in biomarker discovery.
PXD011694	33077605	Revealing mechanisms of mating plug function under sexual selection. 	Revealing mechanisms of mating plug function under sexual selection C4PR_LIV	Myodes glareolus, mating plugs, rodent, sexual competition, stable isotope labelled amino acid in vivo	Mating plugs are produced by many sexually reproducing animals and are hypothesized to promote male fertilization success under promiscuous mating. However, tests of this hypothesis have been constrained by an inability to discriminate ejaculates of different males in direct competition. Here, we use stable isotope labeling in vivo and proteomics to achieve this in a promiscuous rodent, Myodes glareolus We show that, although the first male's plug is usually dislodged, it can be retained throughout the second male's copulation. Retained plugs did not completely block rival sperm but did significantly limit their numbers. Differences in the number of each male's sperm progressing through the female reproductive tract were also explained by natural variation in the size of mating plugs and reproductive accessory glands from which major plug proteins originate. Relative sperm numbers in turn predicted the relative fertilization success of rival males. Our application of stable isotopes to label ejaculates resolves a longstanding debate by revealing how rodent mating plugs promote fertilization success under competitive conditions. This approach opens new opportunities to reveal cryptic mechanisms of postcopulatory sexual selection among diverse animal taxa.
PXD018349	33077710	A streamlined pipeline for multiplexed quantitative site-specific N-glycoproteomics. 	SugarQuant: a streamlined pipeline for multiplexed quantitative site-specific N-glycoproteomics	glycosylation	Regulation of protein N-glycosylation is essential in human cells. However, large-scale, accurate, and site-specific quantification of glycosylation is still technically challenging. We here introduce SugarQuant, an integrated mass spectrometry-based pipeline comprising protein aggregation capture (PAC)-based sample preparation, multi-notch MS3 acquisition (Glyco-SPS-MS3) and a data-processing tool (GlycoBinder) that enables confident identification and quantification of intact glycopeptides in complex biological samples. PAC significantly reduces sample-handling time without compromising sensitivity. Glyco-SPS-MS3 combines high-resolution MS2 and MS3 scans, resulting in enhanced reporter signals of isobaric mass tags, improved detection of N-glycopeptide fragments, and lowered interference in multiplexed quantification. GlycoBinder enables streamlined processing of Glyco-SPS-MS3 data, followed by a two-step database search, which increases the identification rates of glycopeptides by 22% compared with conventional strategies. We apply SugarQuant to identify and quantify more than 5,000 unique glycoforms in Burkitt's lymphoma cells, and determine site-specific glycosylation changes that occurred upon inhibition of fucosylation at high confidence.
PXD021591	33077723	Structural basis of heterotetrameric assembly and disease mutations in the human cis-prenyltransferase complex. 	Structural basis of heterotetrameric assembly and disease mutations in the human cis-prenyltransferase complex.	N-glycosylation, heterotetramer, human cis-PT, native MS	The human cis-prenyltransferase (hcis-PT) is an enzymatic complex essential for protein N-glycosylation. Synthesizing the precursor of the glycosyl carrier dolichol-phosphate, mutations in hcis-PT cause severe human diseases. Here, we reveal that hcis-PT exhibits a heterotetrameric assembly in solution, consisting of two catalytic dehydrodolichyl diphosphate synthase (DHDDS) and inactive Nogo-B receptor (NgBR) heterodimers. Importantly, the 2.3 Aa crystal structure reveals that the tetramer assembles via the DHDDS C-termini as a dimer-of-heterodimers. Moreover, the distal C-terminus of NgBR transverses across the interface with DHDDS, directly participating in active-site formation and the functional coupling between the subunits. Finally, we explored the functional consequences of disease mutations clustered around the active-site, and in combination with molecular dynamics simulations, we propose a mechanism for hcis-PT dysfunction in retinitis pigmentosa. Together, our structure of the hcis-PT complex unveils the dolichol synthesis mechanism and its perturbation in disease.
PXD020280	33077793	Novel approach to quantify mitochondrial content and intrinsic bioenergetic efficiency across organs. 	Mitochondrial content normalization using mass spectrometry allows quantitative evaluation of intrinsic bioenergetic efficiency and the underlying proteome across mouse organs. 	bioenergetics, efficiency, metabolism, mitochondria, respirometry	Human disease pathophysiology commonly involves metabolic disruption at both the cellular and subcellular levels. Isolated mitochondria are a powerful model for separating global cellular changes from intrinsic mitochondrial alterations. However, common laboratory practices for isolating mitochondria (e.g., differential centrifugation) routinely results in organelle preparations with variable mitochondrial purity. To overcome this issue, we developed a mass spectrometry-based method that quantitatively evaluates sample-specific percent mitochondrial enrichment. Sample-specific mitochondrial enrichment was then used to correct various biochemical readouts of mitochondrial function to a 'fixed' amount of mitochondrial protein, thus allowing for intrinsic mitochondrial bioenergetics, relative to the underlying proteome, to be assessed across multiple mouse tissues (e.g., heart, brown adipose, kidney, liver). Our results support the use of mitochondrial-targeted nLC-MS/MS as a method to quantitate mitochondrial enrichment on a per-sample basis, allowing for unbiased comparison of functional parameters between populations of mitochondria isolated from metabolically distinct tissues. This method can easily be applied across multiple experimental settings in which intrinsic shifts in the mitochondrial network are suspected of driving a given physiological or pathophysiological outcome.
PXD017958	33078583	Cell autonomous requirement of neurofibromin (Nf1) for postnatal muscle hypertrophic growth and metabolic homeostasis. 	Cell autonomous requirement of Neurofibrimin (Nf1) for postnatal muscle hypertrophic growth and metabolic homeostasis	Neurofibromatosis, muscle atrophy, muscle fiber type, muscle metabolism, myopathy	BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a multi-organ disease caused by mutations in neurofibromin 1 (NF1). Amongst other features, NF1 patients frequently show reduced muscle mass and strength, impairing patients' mobility and increasing the risk of fall. The role of Nf1 in muscle and the cause for the NF1-associated myopathy are mostly unknown. METHODS: To dissect the function of Nf1 in muscle, we created muscle-specific knockout mouse models for NF1, inactivating Nf1 in the prenatal myogenic lineage either under the Lbx1 promoter or under the Myf5 promoter. Mice were analysed during prenatal and postnatal myogenesis and muscle growth. RESULTS: Nf1(Lbx1) and Nf1(Myf5) animals showed only mild defects in prenatal myogenesis. Nf1(Lbx1) animals were perinatally lethal, while Nf1(Myf5) animals survived only up to approximately 25 weeks. A comprehensive phenotypic characterization of Nf1(Myf5) animals showed decreased postnatal growth, reduced muscle size, and fast fibre atrophy. Proteome and transcriptome analyses of muscle tissue indicated decreased protein synthesis and increased proteasomal degradation, and decreased glycolytic and increased oxidative activity in muscle tissue. High-resolution respirometry confirmed enhanced oxidative metabolism in Nf1(Myf5) muscles, which was concomitant to a fibre type shift from type 2B to type 2A and type 1. Moreover, Nf1(Myf5) muscles showed hallmarks of decreased activation of mTORC1 and increased expression of atrogenes. Remarkably, loss of Nf1 promoted a robust activation of AMPK with a gene expression profile indicative of increased fatty acid catabolism. Additionally, we observed a strong induction of genes encoding catabolic cytokines in muscle Nf1(Myf5) animals, in line with a drastic reduction of white, but not brown adipose tissue. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate a cell autonomous role for Nf1 in myogenic cells during postnatal muscle growth required for metabolic and proteostatic homeostasis. Furthermore, Nf1 deficiency in muscle drives cross-tissue communication and mobilization of lipid reserves.
PXD017015	33078830	Calpain-2 participates in the process of calpain-1 inactivation. 	In vitro TroponinT digestion by calpain and autolysis of calpain.	TroponinT, autolysis, calpain, iTRAQ, substrate specificity	Calpain-1 and calpain-2 are highly structurally similar isoforms of calpain. The calpains, a family of intracellular cysteine proteases, cleave their substrates at specific sites, thus modifying their properties such as function or activity. These isoforms have long been considered to function in a redundant or complementary manner, as they are both ubiquitously expressed and activated in a Ca2+- dependent manner. However, studies using isoform-specific knockout and knockdown strategies revealed that each calpain species carries out specific functions in vivo. To understand the mechanisms that differentiate calpain-1 and calpain-2, we focused on the efficiency and longevity of each calpain species after activation. Using an in vitro proteolysis assay of troponin T in combination with mass spectrometry, we revealed distinctive aspects of each isoform. Proteolysis mediated by calpain-1 was more sustained, lasting as long as several hours, whereas proteolysis mediated by calpain-2 was quickly blunted. Calpain-1 and calpain-2 also differed from each other in their patterns of autolysis. Calpain-2-specific autolysis sites in its PC1 domain are not cleaved by calpain-1, but calpain-2 cuts calpain-1 at the corresponding position. Moreover, at least in vitro, calpain-1 and calpain-2 do not perform substrate proteolysis in a synergistic manner. On the contrary, calpain-1 activity is suppressed in the presence of calpain-2, possibly because it is cleaved by the latter protein. These results suggest that calpain-2 functions as a down-regulation of calpain-1, a mechanism that may be applicable to other calpain species as well.
PXD018180	33079518	PASS-DIA: A Data-Independent Acquisition Approach for Discovery Studies. 	PASS-DIA: A novel data-independent acquisition approach for discovery studies	Data-independent acquisition	A data-independent acquisition (DIA) approach is being increasingly adopted as a promising strategy for identification and quantitation of proteomes. As most DIA data sets are acquired with wide isolation windows, highly complex MS/MS spectra are generated, which negatively impacts obtaining peptide information through classical protein database searches. Therefore, the analysis of DIA data mainly relies on the evidence of the existence of peptides from prebuilt spectral libraries. Consequently, one major weakness of this method is that it does not account for peptides that are not included in the spectral library, precluding the use of DIA for discovery studies. Here, we present a strategy termed Precursor ion And Small Slice-DIA (PASS-DIA) in which MS/MS spectra are acquired with small isolation windows (slices) and MS/MS spectra are interpreted with accurately determined precursor ion masses. This method enables the direct application of conventional spectrum-centric analysis pipelines for peptide identification and precursor ion-based quantitation. The performance of PASS-DIA was observed to be superior to both data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and conventional DIA experiments with 69 and 48% additional protein identifications, respectively. Application of PASS-DIA for the analysis of post-translationally modified peptides again highlighted its superior performance in characterizing phosphopeptides (77% more), N-terminal acetylated peptides (56% more), and N-glycopeptides (83% more) as compared to DDA alone. Finally, the use of PASS-DIA to characterize a rare proteome of human fallopian tube organoids enabled 34% additional protein identifications than DDA alone and revealed biologically relevant pathways including low abundance proteins. Overall, PASS-DIA is a novel DIA approach for use as a discovery tool that outperforms both conventional DDA and DIA experiments to provide additional protein information. We believe that the PASS-DIA method is an important strategy for discovery-type studies when deeper proteome characterization is required.
PXD021296	33080923	Mass Spectrometric Analysis of Antibody-Epitope Peptide Complex Dissociation: Theoretical Concept and Practical Procedure of Binding Strength Characterization. 	Mass Spectrometric Analysis of Antibody-Epitope Peptide Complex Dissociation: Theoretical Concept and Practical Procedure of Binding Strength Characterization	FLAG-peptide-antiFLAG antibody complex, ITEM-TWO, Offline ESI-MS, RNAse S, Troponin I epitope peptide-antiTroponin I antibody complex, myoglobin, protocol	Electrospray mass spectrometry is applied to determine apparent binding energies and quasi equilibrium dissociation constants of immune complex dissociation reactions in the gas phase. Myoglobin, a natural protein-ligand complex, has been used to develop the procedure which starts from determining mean charge states and normalized and averaged ion intensities. The apparent dissociation constant KD&nbsp;m0g#= 3.60 x 10(-12) for the gas phase heme dissociation process was calculated from the mass spectrometry data and by subsequent extrapolation to room temperature to mimic collision conditions for neutral and resting myoglobin. Similarly, for RNAse S dissociation at room temperature a KD&nbsp;m0g#= 4.03 x 10(-12) was determined. The protocol was tested with two immune complexes consisting of epitope peptides and monoclonal antibodies. For the epitope peptide dissociation reaction of the FLAG peptide from the antiFLAG antibody complex an apparent gas phase dissociation constant KD&nbsp;m0g#= 4.04 x 10(-12) was calculated. Likewise, an apparent KD&nbsp;m0g#= 4.58 x 10(-12) was calculated for the troponin I epitope peptide-antiTroponin I antibody immune complex dissociation. Electrospray mass spectrometry is a rapid method, which requires small sample amounts for either identification of protein-bound ligands or for determination of the apparent gas phase protein-ligand complex binding strengths.
PXD016407	33081314	Short-Chain Fatty Acids Modulate Metabolic Pathways and Membrane Lipids in Prevotella bryantii B14. 	Prevotella bryantii B14 proteins from in vitro cultivation under various short-chain fatty acids (SCFA)	Prevotella, SCFA	Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are bacterial products that are known to be used as energy sources in eukaryotic hosts, whereas their role in the metabolism of intestinal microbes is rarely explored. In the present study, acetic, propionic, butyric, isobutyric, valeric, and isovaleric acid, respectively, were added to a newly defined medium containing Prevotella bryantii B14 cells. After 8 h and 24 h, optical density, pH and SCFA concentrations were measured. Long-chain fatty acid (LCFA) profiles of the bacterial cells were analyzed via gas chromatography-time of flight-mass spectrometry (GC-ToF MS) and proteins were quantified using a mass spectrometry-based, label-free approach. Cultures supplemented with single SCFAs revealed different growth behavior. Structural features of the respective SCFAs were identified in the LCFA profiles, which suggests incorporation into the bacterial membranes. The proteomes of cultures supplemented with acetic and valeric acid differed by an increased abundance of outer membrane proteins. The proteome of the isovaleric acid supplementation showed an increase of proteins in the amino acid metabolism. Our findings indicate a possible interaction between SCFAs, the lipid membrane composition, the abundance of outer membrane proteins, and a modulation of branched chain amino acid biosynthesis by isovaleric acid.
PXD021531	33082318	CHIP phosphorylation by protein kinase G enhances protein quality control and attenuates cardiac ischemic injury. 	CHIP phosphorylation regulates proteostasis	Rat Myocyctes phosphorylation CHIP PKG cardiac ischemia	Proteotoxicity from insufficient clearance of misfolded/damaged proteins underlies many diseases. Carboxyl terminus of Hsc70-interacting protein (CHIP) is an important regulator of proteostasis in many cells, having E3-ligase and chaperone functions and often directing damaged proteins towards proteasome recycling. While enhancing CHIP functionality has broad therapeutic potential, prior efforts have all relied on genetic upregulation. Here we report that CHIP-mediated protein turnover is markedly post-translationally enhanced by direct protein kinase G (PKG) phosphorylation at S20 (mouse, S19 human). This increases CHIP binding affinity to Hsc70, CHIP protein half-life, and consequent clearance of stress-induced ubiquitinated-insoluble proteins. PKG-mediated CHIP-pS20 or expressing CHIP-S20E (phosphomimetic) reduces ischemic proteo- and cytotoxicity, whereas a phospho-silenced CHIP-S20A amplifies both. In vivo, depressing PKG activity lowers CHIP-S20 phosphorylation and protein, exacerbating proteotoxicity and heart dysfunction after ischemic injury. CHIP-S20E knock-in mice better clear ubiquitinated proteins and are cardio-protected. PKG activation provides post-translational enhancement of protein quality control via CHIP.
PXD016171	33082573	Autotrophic and mixotrophic metabolism of an anammox bacterium revealed by in vivo (13)C and (2)H metabolic network mapping. 	Investigating the autotrophic and mixotrophic metabolism of an anammox bacterium	Anammox, Metabolism, Microbial proteomics, Shot-gun proteomics	Anaerobic ammonium-oxidizing (anammox) bacteria mediate a key step in the biogeochemical nitrogen cycle and have been applied worldwide for the energy-efficient removal of nitrogen from wastewater. However, outside their core energy metabolism, little is known about the metabolic networks driving anammox bacterial anabolism and use of different carbon and energy substrates beyond genome-based predictions. Here, we experimentally resolved the central carbon metabolism of the anammox bacterium Candidatus 'Kuenenia stuttgartiensis' using time-series (13)C and (2)H isotope tracing, metabolomics, and isotopically nonstationary metabolic flux analysis. Our findings confirm predicted metabolic pathways used for CO2 fixation, central metabolism, and amino acid biosynthesis in K. stuttgartiensis, and reveal several instances where genomic predictions are not supported by in vivo metabolic fluxes. This includes the use of the oxidative branch of an incomplete tricarboxylic acid cycle for alpha-ketoglutarate biosynthesis, despite the genome not having an annotated citrate synthase. We also demonstrate that K. stuttgartiensis is able to directly assimilate extracellular formate via the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway instead of oxidizing it completely to CO2 followed by reassimilation. In contrast, our data suggest that K. stuttgartiensis is not capable of using acetate as a carbon or energy source in situ and that acetate oxidation occurred via the metabolic activity of a low-abundance microorganism in the bioreactor's side population. Together, these findings provide a foundation for understanding the carbon metabolism of anammox bacteria at a systems-level and will inform future studies aimed at elucidating factors governing their function and niche differentiation in natural and engineered ecosystems.
PXD021229	33083719	Fasnall Induces Atypically Transient Stress Granules Independently of FASN Inhibition. 	Fasnall induces atpically transient Stress Granules	PABPC1, fasnall, stress granule	Stress Granule formation has been linked to the resistance of some cancer cells to chemotherapeutic intervention. A number of studies have proposed that certain anti-tumor compounds promote cancer cell survival by inducing Stress Granule formation, leading to increased cellular fitness and apoptosis avoidance. Here we show that a potent fatty acid synthase inhibitor, fasnall, known for its anti-tumor capabilities, triggers the formation of atypical Stress Granules, independently of fatty acid synthase inhibition, characterized by high internal mobility and rapid turnover.
PXD019996	33085896	Sense and Nonsense of Elevated Column Temperature in Proteomic Bottom-up LC-MS Analyses. 	In-column thermostability of peptides	artificial modifications, column temperature, peptide degradation, peptide stability	Elevated column temperature represents a simple means for improving chromatographic separation of peptides. Here, we demonstrated the advantages of the column temperature in peptide separation using state-of-the-art columns. More importantly, we also determined how temperature can impair proteomic bottom-up analyses. We found that an elevated temperature in combination with the acidic pH of the mobile phase induced in-column peptide hydrolysis with high specificity to Asp and accelerated five modification reactions of amino acids. The positive effects of temperature dominated in the 30 min long gradients since the column operated at 90 degreesC provided the largest number of identified peptides and proteins. However, the adverse effects of temperature on peptide integrity in longer liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analyses required its reduction to obtain optimum results. The largest number of peptides was identified using the column maintained at 75 degreesC in 60 min long gradients, at 60 degreesC in 120 min long gradients, and at 45 degreesC in 240 min long gradients. Our results indicate that no universal column temperature exists for bottom-up LC-MS analyses. Quite the contrary, the temperature setting must be selected rationally to exploit the full capabilities of the state-of-the-art mass spectrometers in proteomic LC-MS analyses, with the gradient time being a critical factor.
PXD018302	33087697	Vestigial-like 1 is a shared targetable cancer-placenta antigen expressed by pancreatic and basal-like breast cancers. 	VESTIGIAL-LIKE 1 IS A SHARED TARGETABLE CANCER-PLACENTA ANTIGEN  EXPRESSED BY PANCREATIC AND BASAL-LIKE BREAST CANCERS	MHC, PDAC	Cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL)-based cancer immunotherapies have shown great promise for inducing clinical regressions by targeting tumor-associated antigens (TAA). To expand the TAA landscape of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), we performed tandem mass spectrometry analysis of HLA class I-bound peptides from 35 PDAC patient tumors. This identified a shared HLA-A*0101 restricted peptide derived from co-transcriptional activator Vestigial-like 1 (VGLL1) as a putative TAA demonstrating overexpression in multiple tumor types and low or absent expression in essential normal tissues. Here we show that VGLL1-specific CTLs expanded from the blood of a PDAC patient could recognize and kill in an antigen-specific manner a majority of HLA-A*0101 allogeneic tumor cell lines derived not only from PDAC, but also bladder, ovarian, gastric, lung, and basal-like breast cancers. Gene expression profiling reveals VGLL1 as a member of a unique group of cancer-placenta antigens (CPA) that may constitute immunotherapeutic targets for patients with multiple cancer types.
PXD016582	33087703	Single-cell derived tumor organoids display diversity in HLA class I peptide presentation. 	Intra-patient clonal diversity in HLA class I peptide ligand presentation	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), EPIC-XS, HLA class I peptide ligands, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP) (B/D-HPP), colorectal cancer, tumor heterogen	Tumor heterogeneity is a major cause of therapeutic resistance. Immunotherapy may exploit alternative vulnerabilities of drug-resistant cells, where tumor-specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) peptide ligands are promising leads to invoke targeted anti-tumor responses. Here, we investigate the variability in HLA class I peptide presentation between different clonal cells of the same colorectal cancer patient, using an organoid system. While clone-specific differences in HLA peptide presentation were observed, broad inter-clone variability was even more prevalent (15-25%). By coupling organoid proteomics and HLA peptide ligandomics, we also found that tumor-specific ligands from DNA damage control and tumor suppressor source proteins were prominently presented by tumor cells, coinciding likely with the silencing of such cytoprotective functions. Collectively, these data illustrate the heterogeneous HLA peptide presentation landscape even within one individual, and hint that a multi-peptide vaccination approach against highly conserved tumor suppressors may be a viable option in patients with low tumor-mutational burden.
PXD018632	33088286	Comparative gender peptidomics of Bothrops atrox venoms: are there differences between them? 	Comparative gender peptidomics of Bothrops atrox venoms: new peptides and evidences of increased disintegrins levels in the venoms of females	Bothrops atrox, disintegrins, peptidomics, sexual dimorphism, venom	BACKGROUND: Bothrops atrox is known to be the pit viper responsible for most snakebites and human fatalities in the Amazon region. It can be found in a wide geographical area including northern South America, the east of Andes and the Amazon basin. Possibly, due to its wide distribution and generalist feeding, intraspecific venom variation was reported by previous proteomics studies. Sex-based and ontogenetic variations on venom compositions of Bothrops snakes were also subject of proteomic and peptidomic analysis. However, the venom peptidome of B. atrox remains unknown. METHODS: We conducted a mass spectrometry-based analysis of the venom peptides of individual male and female specimens combining bottom-up and top-down approaches. RESULTS: We identified in B. atrox a total of 105 native peptides in the mass range of 0.4 to 13.9 kDa. Quantitative analysis showed that phospholipase A2 and bradykinin potentiating peptides were the most abundant peptide families in both genders, whereas disintegrin levels were significantly increased in the venoms of females. Known peptides processed at non-canonical sites and new peptides as the Ba1a, which contains the SVMP BATXSVMPII1 catalytic site, were also revealed in this work. CONCLUSION: The venom peptidomes of male and female specimens of B. atrox were analyzed by mass spectrometry-based approaches in this work. The study points to differences in disintegrin levels in the venoms of females that may result in distinct pathophysiology of envenomation. Further research is required to explore the potential biological implications of this finding.
PXD012773	33088342	Low-temperature effects on docosahexaenoic acid biosynthesis in Schizochytrium sp. TIO01 and its proposed underlying mechanism. 	Mutli-omics analyses reveal the  Schizochytriumn  fatty acids biosynthesis pathway, and the mechanism of cold temperature promote docosahexaenoic acid accumulation	LC-MS, Schizochytrium, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: Schizochytrium species are known for their abundant production of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Low temperatures can promote the biosynthesis of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in many species. This study investigates low-temperature effects on DHA biosynthesis in Schizochytrium sp. TIO01 and its underlying mechanism. RESULTS: The Schizochytrium fatty acid biosynthesis pathway was evaluated based on de novo genome assembly (contig N50 = 2.86 Mb) and iTRAQ-based protein identification. Our findings revealed that desaturases, involved in DHA synthesis via the fatty acid synthase (FAS) pathway, were completely absent. The polyketide synthase (PKS) pathway and the FAS pathway are, respectively, responsible for DHA and saturated fatty acid synthesis in Schizochytrium. Analysis of fatty acid composition profiles indicates that low temperature has a significant impact on the production of DHA in Schizochytrium, increasing the DHA content from 43 to 65% of total fatty acids. However, the expression levels of PKS pathway genes were not significantly regulated as the DHA content increased. Further, gene expression analysis showed that pathways related to the production of substrates (acetyl-CoA and NADPH) for fatty acid synthesis (the branched-chain amino acid degradation pathway and the pentose phosphate pathway) and genes related to saturated fatty acid biosynthesis (the FAS pathway genes and malic enzyme) were, respectively, upregulated and downregulated. These results indicate that low temperatures increase the DHA content by likely promoting the entry of relatively large amounts of substrates into the PKS pathway. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we provide genomic, proteomic, and transcriptomic evidence for the fatty acid synthesis pathway in Schizochytrium and propose a mechanism by which low temperatures promote the accumulation of DHA in Schizochytrium. The high-quality and nearly complete genome sequence of Schizochytrium provides a valuable reference for investigating the regulation of polyunsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis and the evolutionary characteristics of Thraustochytriidae species.
PXD015249	33091337	HLA-DR15 Molecules Jointly Shape an Autoreactive T Cell Repertoire in Multiple Sclerosis. 	HLA-DR15 Molecules Jointly Shape an Autoreactive T Cell Repertoire in Multiple Sclerosis	B cells, HLA cross-restriction, HLA-DR-derived self-peptides, HLA-DR15 molecules, Multiple sclerosis, autoreactive CD4+ T cells, cross-reactivity, immunopeptidome	The HLA-DR15 haplotype is the strongest genetic risk factor for multiple sclerosis (MS), but our understanding of how it contributes to MS is limited. Because autoreactive CD4(+) T cells and B cells as antigen-presenting cells are involved in MS pathogenesis, we characterized the immunopeptidomes of the two HLA-DR15 allomorphs DR2a and DR2b of human primary B cells and monocytes, thymus, and MS brain tissue. Self-peptides from HLA-DR molecules, particularly from DR2a and DR2b themselves, are abundant on B cells and thymic antigen-presenting cells. Furthermore, we identified autoreactive CD4(+) T cell clones that can cross-react with HLA-DR-derived self-peptides (HLA-DR-SPs), peptides from MS-associated foreign agents (Epstein-Barr virus and Akkermansia muciniphila), and autoantigens presented by DR2a and DR2b. Thus, both HLA-DR15 allomorphs jointly shape an autoreactive T cell repertoire by serving as antigen-presenting structures and epitope sources and by presenting the same foreign peptides and autoantigens to autoreactive CD4(+) T cells in MS.
PXD021872	33093201	SurA is a cryptically grooved chaperone that expands unfolded outer membrane proteins. 	Chemical-crosslinking of SurA with DSBU to unfolded Omps (OmpA and OmpX)	Chaperones, periplasm, protein biogenesis	The periplasmic chaperone network ensures the biogenesis of bacterial outer membrane proteins (OMPs) and has recently been identified as a promising target for antibiotics. SurA is the most important member of this network, both due to its genetic interaction with the beta-barrel assembly machinery complex as well as its ability to prevent unfolded OMP (uOMP) aggregation. Using only binding energy, the mechanism by which SurA carries out these two functions is not well-understood. Here, we use a combination of photo-crosslinking, mass spectrometry, solution scattering, and molecular modeling techniques to elucidate the key structural features that define how SurA solubilizes uOMPs. Our experimental data support a model in which SurA binds uOMPs in a groove formed between the core and P1 domains. This binding event results in a drastic expansion of the rest of the uOMP, which has many biological implications. Using these experimental data as restraints, we adopted an integrative modeling approach to create a sparse ensemble of models of a SurA*uOMP complex. We validated key structural features of the SurA*uOMP ensemble using independent scattering and chemical crosslinking data. Our data suggest that SurA utilizes three distinct binding modes to interact with uOMPs and that more than one SurA can bind a uOMP at a time. This work demonstrates that SurA operates in a distinct fashion compared to other chaperones in the OMP biogenesis network.
PXD016839	33093450	Antileukemic activity of the VPS34-IN1 inhibitor in acute myeloid leukemia. 	Antileukemic activity of the VPS34-IN1 inhibitor in acute myeloid leukemia	AML, L-asparaginase, Orbitrap fusion, VPS34, VPS34-IN1, autophagy, human MOLM-14 cells	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive disease with a poor prognosis. Vacuolar protein sorting 34 (VPS34) is a member of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase lipid kinase family that controls the canonical autophagy pathway and vesicular trafficking. Using a recently developed specific inhibitor (VPS34-IN1), we found that VPS34 inhibition induces apoptosis in AML cells but not in normal CD34+ hematopoietic cells. Complete and acute inhibition of VPS34 was required for the antileukemic activity of VPS34-IN1. This inhibitor also has pleiotropic effects against various cellular functions related to class III PI3K in AML cells that may explain their survival impairment. VPS34-IN1 inhibits basal and L-asparaginase-induced autophagy in AML cells. A synergistic cell death activity of this drug was also demonstrated. VPS34-IN1 was additionally found to impair vesicular trafficking and mTORC1 signaling. From an unbiased approach based on phosphoproteomic analysis, we identified that VPS34-IN1 specifically inhibits STAT5 phosphorylation downstream of FLT3-ITD signaling in AML. The identification of the mechanisms controlling FLT3-ITD signaling by VPS34 represents an important insight into the oncogenesis of AML and could lead to new therapeutic strategies.
PXD014710	33093535	Towards middle-up analysis of polyclonal antibodies: subclass-specific N-glycosylation profiling of murine immunoglobulin G (IgG) by means of HPLC-MS. 	Towards middle-up analysis of polyclonal antibodies: subclass-specific N-glycosylation profiling of murine immunoglobulin G (IgG) by means of HPLC-MS	Murine IgG subclass quantification, N-Glycosylation, Phl p 6 vaccination, SpeB	In recent years, advanced HPLC-MS strategies based on intact protein ("top-down") or protein subunit ("middle-up/middle-down") analysis have been implemented for the characterization of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. Here, we assess feasibility of middle-up/middle-down analysis for polyclonal IgGs exhibiting extensive sequence variability. Specifically, we addressed IgGs from mouse, representing an important model system in immunological investigations. To obtain Fc/2 portions as conserved subunits of IgGs, we made use of the bacterial protease SpeB. For this purpose, we initially determined SpeB cleavage sites in murine IgGs. The resulting Fc/2 portions characteristic of different subclasses were subsequently analysed by ion-pair reversed-phase HPLC hyphenated to high-resolution mass spectrometry. This enabled simultaneous relative quantification of IgG subclasses and their N-glycosylation variants, both of which influence IgG effector functions. To assess method capabilities in an immunological context, we applied the analytical workflow to polyclonal antibodies obtained from BALB/c mice immunized with the grass pollen allergen Phl p 6. The study revealed a shift in IgG subclasses and Fc-glycosylation patterns in total and antigen-specific IgGs from different mouse cohorts, respectively. Eventually, Fc/2 characterization may reveal other protein modifications including oxidation, amino acid exchanges, and C-terminal lysine, and may thus be implemented for quality control of functional antibodies.
PXD017339	33093574	Maximized quantitative phosphoproteomics allows high confidence dissection of the DNA damage signaling network. 	Maximizing Confidence and Sensitivity in quantitative Phosphoproteomics - Targets of Mec1 kinase	Mec1 kinase targets, Quantitative Phosphoproteomics	The maintenance of genomic stability relies on DNA damage sensor kinases that detect DNA lesions and phosphorylate an extensive network of substrates. The Mec1/ATR kinase is one of the primary sensor kinases responsible for orchestrating DNA damage responses. Despite the importance of Mec1/ATR, the current network of its identified substrates remains incomplete due, in part, to limitations in mass spectrometry-based quantitative phosphoproteomics. Phosphoproteomics suffers from lack of redundancy and statistical power for generating high confidence datasets, since information about phosphopeptide identity, site-localization, and quantitation must often be gleaned from a single peptide-spectrum match (PSM). Here we carefully analyzed the isotope label swapping strategy for phosphoproteomics, using data consistency among reciprocal labeling experiments as a central filtering rule for maximizing phosphopeptide identification and quantitation. We demonstrate that the approach allows drastic reduction of false positive quantitations and identifications even from phosphopeptides with a low number of spectral matches. Application of this approach identifies new Mec1/ATR-dependent signaling events, expanding our understanding of the DNA damage signaling network. Overall, the proposed quantitative phosphoproteomic approach should be generally applicable for investigating kinase signaling networks with high confidence and depth.
PXD014915	33093847	Lysine Acetylome Study of Human Hepatocellular Carcinoma Tissues for Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets Discovery. 	Proteomics Study Reveals Involvement of Lysine Acetylation in Metabolic Disorder in Human Hepatocellular Carcinoma	HCC, PTM, lysine acetylation, metabolic disorder, oxidative stress., transcription factor	Lysine acetylation is a vital post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins, which plays an important role in cancer development. In healthy human liver tissues, multiple non-histone proteins were identified with acetylation modification, however, the role of acetylated proteins in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development remains largely unknown. Here we performed a quantitative acetylome study of tumor and normal liver tissues from HCC patients. Overall, 598 lysine acetylation sites in 325 proteins were quantified, and almost 59% of their acetylation levels were significantly changed. The differentially acetylated proteins mainly consisted of non-histone proteins located in mitochondria and cytoplasm, which accounted for 42% and 24%, respectively. Bioinformatics analysis showed that differentially acetylated proteins were enriched in metabolism, oxidative stress, and signal transduction processes. In tumor tissues, 278 lysine sites in 189 proteins showed decreased acetylation levels, which occupied 98% of differentially acetylated proteins. Moreover, we collected twenty pairs of tumor and normal liver tissues from HCC male patients, and found that expression levels of SIRT1 (p = 0.002), SIRT2 (p = 0.01), and SIRT4 (p = 0.045) were significantly up-regulated in tumor tissues. Over-expression of possibly accounted for the widespread deacetylation of non-histone proteins identified in HCC tumor tissues, which could serve as promising predictors of HCC. Taken together, our work illustrates abundant differentially acetylated proteins in HCC tumor tissues, and offered insights into the role of lysine acetylation in HCC development. It provided potential biomarker and drug target candidates for clinical HCC diagnosis and treatment.
PXD021814	33095160	SON and SRRM2 are essential for nuclear speckle formation. 	SON and SRRM2 form nuclear speckles in human cells	SRRM2, nuclear speckles	Nuclear speckles (NS) are among the most prominent biomolecular condensates. Despite their prevalence, research on the function of NS is virtually restricted to colocalization analyses, since an organizing core, without which NS cannot form, remains unidentified. The monoclonal antibody SC35, raised against a spliceosomal extract, is frequently used to mark NS. Unexpectedly, we found that this antibody was mischaracterized and the main target of SC35 mAb is SRRM2, a spliceosome-associated protein that sharply localizes to NS. Here we show that, the core of NS is likely formed by SON and SRRM2, since depletion of SON leads only to a partial disassembly of NS, while co-depletion of SON and SRRM2 or depletion of SON in a cell-line where intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) of SRRM2 are genetically deleted, leads to a near-complete dissolution of NS. This work, therefore, paves the way to study the role of NS under diverse physiological and stress conditions.
PXD015889	33096305	Cysteine alkylation methods in shotgun proteomics and their possible effects on methionine residues. 	Cysteine alkylating methods in shotgun proteomics and their possible effects on methionine residues	alkylation, cysteine, methionine, reduction	In order to optimize sample preparation for shotgun proteomics, we compared four cysteine alkylating agents: iodoacetamide, chloroacetamide, 4-vinylpyridine and methyl methanethiosulfonate, and estimated their effects on the results of proteome analysis. Because alkylation may result in methionine modification in vitro, proteomics data were searched for methionine to isothreonine conversions, which may mimic genomic methionine to threonine substitutions found in proteogenomic analyses. We found that chloroacetamide was superior to the other reagents in terms of the number of identified peptides and undesirable off-site reactions. Among the reagents evaluated, iodoacetamide increased the rate of methionine-to-isothreonine conversion, especially if the sample was prepared in gel. The presence of proline following methionine in a protein sequence increased the modification rate as well. Generally, the methionine-to-isothreonine conversion events were relatively rare, but should be taken into account in proteogenomic studies when searching for single nucleotide polymorphism events at the protein level. Additionally, we have evaluated other methionine modifications, such as oxidation and carbamidomethylation. We found that carbamidomethylation may affect up to 80% of peptides containing methionine under the condition of iodoacetamide alkylation. In this case, carbamidomethylation of methionine is more common than oxidation and should be accounted for as a variable modification during proteomic search. SIGNIFICANCE: One of the most trending questions in bottom-up proteomics is the depth of proteome profiling, in other words, the coverage of proteins by identified tryptic peptides. In proteogenomics, where the identification of a single peptide, e.g. bearing an amino acid substitution, may be of interest, high sequence coverage is especially important. Chemical modifications during sample preparation may mimic biologically significant coding mutations at the proteome level. A typical example of such modification is methionine to isothreonine conversion during alkylation, which mimics methionine to threonine substitution in protein sequences due to respective genomic mutations. Therefore, the studies on the proper selection of alkylating reagents which balance the cysteine alkylation efficiency and the extent of methionine conversion upon conventional proteomic sample preparation workflow are crucial for the outcome of proteogenomic analyses and should present a general interest for the proteomic community.
PXD018275	33096306	Proteome-wide modulation of S-nitrosylation in Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes upon interaction with the host extracellular matrix. 	Proteome-wide modulation of S-nitrosylation in Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes upon interaction with the host extracellular matrix	S-nitrosylation, Trypanosoma cruzi, histones, nitric oxide synthase, post-translational modifications	Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes adhere to extracellular matrix (ECM) to invade mammalian host cells regulating intracellular signaling pathways. Herein, resin-assisted enrichment of thiols combined with mass spectrometry were employed to map site-specific S-nitrosylated (SNO) proteins from T. cruzi trypomastigotes incubated (MTy) or not (Ty) with ECM. We confirmed the reduction of S-nitrosylation upon incubation with ECM, associated with a rewiring of the subcellular distribution and intracellular signaling pathways. Forty, 248 and 85 SNO-peptides were identified only in MTy, Ty or in both conditions, respectively. SNO proteins were enriched in ribosome, transport, carbohydrate and lipid metabolisms. Nitrosylation of histones H2B and H3 on Cys64 and Cys126, respectively, is described. Protein-protein interaction networks revealed ribosomal proteins, proteins involved in carbon and fatty acid metabolism to be among the enriched protein complexes. Kinases, phosphatases and enzymes involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids and amino acids were identified as nitrosylated and phosphorylated, suggesting a post-translational modifications crosstalk. In silico mapping of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) genes, previously uncharacterized, matched to four putative T. cruzi proteins expressing C-terminal NOS domain. Our results provide the first site-specific characterization of S-nitrosylated proteins in T. cruzi and their modulation upon ECM incubation before infection of the mammalian hosts. SIGNIFICANCE: Protein S-nitrosylation represents a major molecular mechanism for signal transduction by nitric oxide. We present for the first time a proteomic profile of S-nitrosylated proteins from infective forms of T. cruzi, showing a decrease in SNO proteins after incubation of the parasite with the extracellular matrix, a necessary step for the parasite invasion of the host mammalian cells. We also show for the first time nitrosylation of H2B (Cys64) and H3 (Cys126) histones, sites not conserved in higher eukaryotic cells, and suggest that some specific histone isoforms are sensitive to NO signaling. S-nitrosylation in H2B and H3 histones are more abundant in MTy. Moreover, proteins involved in translation, glycolytic pathway and fatty acid metabolism are enriched in the present dataset. Comparison of the SNO proteome and the phosphoproteome, obtained previously under the same experimental conditions, show that most of the proteins sharing both modifications are involved in metabolic pathways, transport and ribosome function. The data suggest that both PTMs are involved in reprogramming the metabolism of T. cruzi in response to environmental changes. Although NO synthesis was detected in T. cruzi, the identification of NOS remains elusive. Analysis in silico showed two genes similar in domains to NADPH-dependent cytochrome-P450 reductase and two putative oxidoreductases, but no oxygenase domain of NOS was mapped in the T. cruzi genome. It is tempting to speculate that NO synthase-like from T. cruzi and its early NO-mediated pathways triggered in response to host interaction constitute potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets.
PXD018807	33096396	Copper detoxification machinery of the brain-eating amoeba Naegleria fowleri involves copper-translocating ATPase and the antioxidant system. 	Copper detoxification machinery of the brain-eating amoeba Naegleria fowleri involves copper-translocating ATPase and the antioxidant system	Naegleria fowleri, copper, copper transporting ATPase, hemerythrin, ionophores, oxidative stress	Copper is a trace metal that is necessary for all organisms but toxic when present in excess. Different mechanisms to avoid copper toxicity have been reported to date in pathogenic organisms such as Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida albicans. However, little if anything is known about pathogenic protozoans despite their importance in human and veterinary medicine. Naegleria fowleri is a free-living amoeba that occurs naturally in warm fresh water and can cause a rapid and deadly brain infection called primary amoebic meningoencephalitis (PAM). Here, we describe the mechanisms employed by N. fowleri to tolerate high copper concentrations, which include various strategies such as copper efflux mediated by a copper-translocating ATPase and upregulation of the expression of antioxidant enzymes and obscure hemerythrin-like and protoglobin-like proteins. The combination of different mechanisms efficiently protects the cell and ensures its high copper tolerance, which can be advantageous both in the natural environment and in the host. Nevertheless, we demonstrate that copper ionophores are potent antiamoebic agents; thus, copper metabolism may be considered a therapeutic target.
PXD021420	33097595	Phosphorylation of SMURF2 by ATM exerts a negative feedback control of DNA damage response. 	Phosphorylation of SMURF2 by ATM exerts a negative feedback control of DNA damage response	ATM, DNA damage response, SMURF2, phosphorylation	Timely repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) is essential to maintaining genomic integrity and preventing illnesses induced by genetic abnormalities. We previously demonstrated that the E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2 plays a critical tumor suppressing role via its interaction with RNF20 (ring finger protein 20) in shaping chromatin landscape and preserving genomic stability. However, the mechanism that mobilizes SMURF2 in response to DNA damage remains unclear. Using biochemical approaches and MS analysis, we show that upon the onset of the DNA-damage response, SMURF2 becomes phosphorylated at Ser(384) by ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) serine/threonine kinase, and this phosphorylation is required for its interaction with RNF20. We demonstrate that a SMURF2 mutant with an S384A substitution has reduced capacity to ubiquitinate RNF20 while promoting Smad3 ubiquitination unabatedly. More importantly, mouse embryonic fibroblasts expressing the SMURF2 S384A mutant show a weakened ability to sustain the DSB response compared with those expressing WT SMURF2 following etoposide treatment. These data indicate that SMURF2-mediated RNF20 ubiquitination and degradation controlled by ataxia telangiectasia mutated-induced phosphorylation at Ser(384) constitutes a negative feedback loop that regulates DSB repair.
PXD020022	33098768	Validation of recombinant human protein purified from bacteria: An important step to increase scientific rigor. 	Recombinant Tau and EFhd2 from Bacteria	E. Coli, EFhd2, PTM, Recombinant, Tau	E. coli is a common host for generating human recombinant proteins in in vitro studies that seek to understand the biochemical and structural properties of proteins and in drug discovery. Validation of this biological resource is crucial to avoid misinterpretations and assay interference. Here, we demonstrate the use of tandem mass spectrometry to detect inadvertent post-translational modifications on human recombinant proteins produced in E. coli. Additionally, we identified co-purified E. coli proteins orthologous to known human interacting proteins. The results confirmed the importance of mass spectrometry in validating bacterial purified recombinant proteins as part of authenticating this key biological resource.
PXD020392	33099676	Comparison of MS(2), synchronous precursor selection MS(3), and real-time search MS(3) methodologies for lung proteomes of hydrogen sulfide treated swine. 	Methodologies comparison of porcine lung tissue	Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), isobaric tandem mass tags, real-time search, synchronous precursor selection	Tandem mass tags (TMTs) have increasingly become an attractive technique for global proteomics. However, its effectiveness for multiplexed quantitation by traditional tandem mass spectrometry (MS(2)) suffers from ratio distortion. Synchronous precursor selection (SPS) MS(3) has been widely accepted for improved quantitation accuracy, but concurrently decreased proteome coverage. Recently, a Real-Time Search algorithm has been integrated with the SPS MS(3) pipeline (RTS MS(3)) to provide accurate quantitation and improved depth of coverage. In this mechanistic study of the impact of exposure to hydrogen sulfide (H2S) on the respiration of swine, we used TMT-based comparative proteomics of lung tissues from control and H2S-treated subjects as a test case to evaluate traditional MS(2), SPS MS(3), and RTS MS(3) acquisition methods on both the Orbitrap Fusion and Orbitrap Eclipse platforms. Comparison of the results obtained by the MS(2) with those of SPS MS(3) and RTS MS(3) methods suggests that the MS(3)-driven quantitative strategies provided a more accurate global-scale quantitation; however, only RTS MS(3) provided proteomic coverage that rivaled that of traditional MS(2) analysis. RTS MS(3) not only yields more productive MS(3) spectra than SPS MS(3) but also appears to focus the analysis more effectively on unique peptides. Furthermore, pathway enrichment analyses of the H2S-altered proteins demonstrated that an additional apoptosis pathway was discovered exclusively by RTS MS(3). This finding was verified by RT-qPCR, western blotting, and TUNEL staining experiments. We conclude that RTS MS(3) workflow enables simultaneous improvement of quantitative accuracy and proteome coverage over alternative approaches (MS(2) and SPS MS(3)). Graphical abstract.
PXD020109	33099724	Differential regulation of extracellular matrix proteins in three recurrent liver metastases of a single patient with colorectal cancer. 	Differential regulation of extracellular matrix proteins in three recurrent liver metastases of a single patient with colorectal cancer	CRC, CRLM, ECM, ECM signatures, colorectal cancer, colorectal liver metastasis, extracellular matrix, metachronous liver metastasis, prognostic factor	Colorectal cancer (CRC) patients suffer from the second highest mortality among all cancer entities. In half of all CRC patients, colorectal cancer liver metastases (CRLM) can be observed. Metastatic colorectal cancer is associated with poor overall survival and limited treatment options. Even after successful surgical resection of the primary tumor, metachronous liver metastases occur in one out of eight cases. The only available curative intended treatment is hepatic resection, but metachronous CRLM frequently recur after approximately 1 year. In this study, we performed a proteome analysis of three recurrent liver metastases of a single CRC patient by mass spectrometry. Despite surgical resection of the primary CRC and adjuvant chemotherapy plus cetuximab treatment, the patient developed three metachronous CRLM which occurred consecutively after 9, 21 and 31 months. We identified a set of 1132 proteins expressed in the three metachronous CRLM, of which 481 were differentially regulated, including 81 proteins that were associated with the extracellular matrix (ECM). 56 ECM associated proteins were identified as upregulated in the third metastasis, 26 (46%) of which were previously described as negative prognostic markers in CRC, including tenascin C, nidogen 1, fibulin 1 and vitronectin. These data may reflect an ascending trend of malignancy from the first to the third metachronous colorectal cancer liver metastasis. Additionally, the results indicate different ECM phenotypes for recurrent metachronous metastasis, associated with different grades of malignancy and highlights the importance of individual analysis of molecular features in different, consecutive metastatic events in a single patient.
PXD013824	33101026	Proteomics Reveal the Inhibitory Mechanism of Levodopa Against Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. 	Proteomics reveals the inhibitory mechanism of Levodopa against esophageal squamous cell carcinoma	Chemoprevention, Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), Levodopa, Mitochondria	High recurrence rates and poor survival of patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) after treatment make ongoing research on chemoprevention drugs for ESCC particularly important. In this study, we screened a large number of FDA-approved drugs and found levodopa, a drug used to treat Parkinson's disease, had an inhibitory effect on the growth of ESCC cells. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved, we applied quantitative proteomics to investigate the anti-tumor activity of levodopa on ESCC. The results suggest that levodopa could down-regulate oxidative phosphorylation, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and Parkinson's disease pathways. Major mitochondrial respiratory compounds were involved in the pathways, including succinate dehydrogenase subunit D, NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase Fe-S protein 4, and mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit 3. Down-regulation of these proteins was associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Western blotting and immunofluorescence results confirmed the proteomics findings. Cell viability assays indicated mitochondrial activity was suppressed after levodopa treatment. Reduced mitochondrial membrane potential was detected using JC-1 staining and TMRE assays. Transmission electron microscopy revealed changes in the morphology of mitochondria. Taken together, these results indicate that levodopa inhibited the growth of ESCC through restraining mitochondria function.
PXD019624	33101062	A Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analysis of the Diaphorina citri Salivary Glands Reveals Genes Responding to Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus. 	Diaphorina citri salivary glands shotgun	Diaphorina citri, salivary glands, shotgun	The Asian citrus psyllid (ACP), Diaphorina citri Kuwayama, is the principal vector of the Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas) bacterium that causes Huanglongbing (HLB) disease. The D. citri salivary glands (SG) is an important barrier to the transmission of CLas. Despite its importance, the transcriptome and proteome of SG defense against CLas are unstudied in D. citri. In the present study, we generated a comparative transcriptome dataset of the SG in infected and uninfected D. citri using an Illumina RNA-Seq technology. We obtained 407 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 159 upregulated DEGs and 248 downregulated DEGs. Functional categories showed that many DEGs were associated with the ribosome, the insecticide resistance, the immune response and the digestion in comparison with CLas-infected SG and CLas-free SG. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases confirmed that metabolism and immunity were important functions in the SG. Among the DEGs, 68 genes (35 upregulated and 33 downregulated) encoding putative-secreted proteins were obtained with a signal peptide, suggesting that these genes may play important roles in CLas infection. A total of 673 SG proteins were identified in uninfected D. citri by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis, and 30 DEGs (15 upregulated and 15 downregulated) were found using the local tBLASTP programs. Among the 30 DEGs, many DEGs mainly involved in the metabolism and cellular processes pathways. This study provides basic transcriptome and proteome information for the SG in D. citri, and helps illuminate the molecular interactions between CLas and D. citri.
PXD019546	33101318	Maresin-1 and Resolvin E1 Promote Regenerative Properties of Periodontal Ligament Stem Cells Under Inflammatory Conditions. 	Maresin-1 and Resolvin E1 promote regenerative properties of periodontal ligament stem cells under inflammatory conditions	Maresin, Phosphoproteomics, Resolvin E1, Stem cells	Maresin-1 (MaR1) and Resolvin E1 (RvE1) are specialized pro-resolving lipid mediators (SPMs) that regulate inflammatory processes. We have previously demonstrated the hard and soft tissue regenerative capacity of RvE1 in an in vivo model of the periodontal disease characterized by inflammatory tissue destruction. Regeneration of periodontal tissues requires a well-orchestrated process mediated by periodontal ligament stem cells. However, limited data are available on how SPMs can regulate the regenerative properties of human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) under inflammatory conditions. Thus, we measured the impact of MaR1 and RvE1 in an in vitro model of hPDLSC under stimulation with IL-1beta and TNF-alpha by evaluating pluripotency, migration, viability/cell death, periodontal ligament markers (alpha-smooth muscle actin, tenomodulin, and periostin), cementogenic-osteogenic differentiation, and phosphoproteomic perturbations. The data showed that the pro-inflammatory milieu suppresses pluripotency, viability, and migration of hPDLSCs; MaR1 and RvE1 both restored regenerative capacity by increasing hPDLSC viability, accelerating wound healing/migration, and up-regulating periodontal ligament markers and cementogenic-osteogenic differentiation. Protein phosphorylation perturbations were associated with the SPM-induced regenerative capacity of hPDLSCs. Together, these results demonstrate that MaR1 and RvE1 restore or improve the regenerative properties of highly specialized stem cells when inflammation is present and offer opportunities for direct pharmacologic treatment of lost tissue integrity.
PXD019444	33101336	Putative Bifunctional Chorismate Mutase/Prephenate Dehydratase Contributes to the Virulence of Acidovorax citrulli. 	Comparative proteomic analysis for a bifunctional chorismate mutase/prephenate dehydratase in Acidovorax citrulli	acidovorax citrulli, chorismate mutase, prephenate dehydratase	Acidovorax citrulli (Ac) is a plant pathogenic bacterium that causes bacterial fruit blotch (BFB) in cucurbit crops. Despite its importance in the cucurbit industry, resistant cultivars/lines against BFB have not yet been identified. Therefore, there is a need to characterize the virulence factors/mechanisms in Ac to control the disease. Chorismate mutase, a key enzyme in the shikimate pathway, produces aromatic amino acids. Here, we report the functions of putative bifunctional chorismate mutase/prephenate dehydratase in Ac (CmpAc) determined by proteomic analysis and phenotypic assays. Ac strain lacking CmpAc, AcDeltacmpAc(EV), were significantly less virulent on watermelon in the germinated-seed inoculation and leaf infiltration assays. Sequence analysis revealed that CmpAc possesses two distinct domains: chorismate mutase and prephenate dehydratase, indicating that CmpAc is a bifunctional protein. Auxotrophic assays demonstrated that CmpAc is required for the biosynthesis of phenylalanine, but not tyrosine. The comparative proteomic analysis revealed that CmpAc is mostly involved in cell wall/membrane/envelop biogenesis. Furthermore, AcDeltacmpAc(EV) showed reduced twitching halo production and enhanced biofilm formation. In addition, AcDeltacmpAc(EV) was less tolerant to osmotic stress but more tolerant to antibiotics (polymyxin B). Thus, our study provides new insights into the functions of a putative bifunctional protein related to virulence in Ac.
PXD013690	33104753	Dynamic metabolic reprogramming in dendritic cells: An early response to influenza infection that is essential for effector function. 	Dynamic metabolic reprogramming in dendritic cells: an early response to influenza infection that is essential for effector function	Dendritic Cells, Influenza, Metabolism	Infection with the influenza virus triggers an innate immune response that initiates the adaptive response to halt viral replication and spread. However, the metabolic response fueling the molecular mechanisms underlying changes in innate immune cell homeostasis remain undefined. Although influenza increases parasitized cell metabolism, it does not productively replicate in dendritic cells. To dissect these mechanisms, we compared the metabolism of dendritic cells to that of those infected with active and inactive influenza A virus and those treated with toll-like receptor agonists. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, pulse chase substrate utilization assays and metabolic flux measurements, we found global metabolic changes in dendritic cells 17 hours post infection, including significant changes in carbon commitment via glycolysis and glutaminolysis, as well as mitochondrial respiration. Influenza infection of dendritic cells led to a metabolic phenotype distinct from that induced by TLR agonists, with significant resilience in terms of metabolic plasticity. We identified c-Myc as one transcription factor modulating this response. Restriction of c-Myc activity or mitochondrial substrates significantly changed the immune functions of dendritic cells, such as reducing motility and T cell activation. Transcriptome analysis of inflammatory dendritic cells isolated following influenza infection showed similar metabolic reprogramming occurs in vivo. Thus, early in the infection process, dendritic cells respond with global metabolic restructuring, that is present in inflammatory lung dendritic cells after infection, and this is important for effector function. These findings suggest metabolic switching in dendritic cells plays a vital role in initiating the immune response to influenza infection.
PXD017844	33105702	Butyrate Levels in the Transition from an Infant- to an Adult-Like Gut Microbiota Correlate with Bacterial Networks Associated with Eubacterium Rectale and Ruminococcus Gnavus. 	16S rRNA sequences from a longitudinal study on infants	Fecal-samples, Infants	Relatively little is known about the ecological forces shaping the gut microbiota composition during infancy. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to identify the nutrient utilization- and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production potential of gut microbes in infants during the first year of life. Stool samples were obtained from mothers at 18 weeks of pregnancy and from infants at birth (first stool) at 3, 6, and 12-months of age from the general population-based PreventADALL cohort. We identified the taxonomic and SCFA composition in 100 mother-child pairs. The SCFA production and substrate utilization potential of gut microbes were observed by multiomics (shotgun sequencing and proteomics) on six infants. We found a four-fold increase in relative butyrate levels from 6 to 12 months of infant age. The increase was correlated to Eubacterium rectale and its bacterial network, and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii relative abundance, while low butyrate at 12 months was correlated to Ruminococcus gnavus and its associated network of bacteria. Both E. rectale and F. prausnitzii expressed enzymes needed for butyrate production and enzymes related to dietary fiber degradation, while R. gnavus expressed mucus-, fucose, and human milk oligosaccharides (HMO)-related degradation enzymes. Therefore, we believe that the presence of E. rectale, its network, and F. prausnitzii are key bacteria in the transition from an infant- to an adult-like gut microbiota with respect to butyrate production. Our results indicate that the transition from an infant- to an adult-like gut microbiota with respect to butyrate producing bacteria, occurs between 6 and 12 months of infant age. The bacteria associated with the increased butyrate ratio/levels were E. rectale and F. prausnitzii, which potentially utilize a variety of dietary fibers based on the glycoside hydrolases (GHs) expressed. R. gnavus with a negative association to butyrate potentially utilizes mucin, fucose, and HMO components. This knowledge could have future importance in understanding how microbial metabolites can impact infant health and development.
PXD021536	33105781	Heat Stress Triggers Differential Protein Accumulation in the Extracellular Matrix of Sorghum Cell Suspension Cultures. 	Heat stress triggers protein secretion into the extracellular matrix of sorghum cell suspension cultures	heat stress, iTRAQ, sorghum	Plants reprogram gene expression as an adaptive response to survive high temperatures. While the identity and functions of intracellular heat stress-responsive proteins have been extensively studied, the heat response of proteins secreted to the extracellular matrix is unknown. Here, we used Sorghum bicolor, a species adapted for growth in hot climates, to investigate the extracellular heat-induced responses. When exposed to 40 C for 72 h, heat-sensitive Arabidopsis cell suspension cultures died, while ICSB338 sorghum cell cultures survived by activation of a transcriptional response characterized by the induction of HSP70 and HSP90 genes. Quantitative proteomic analysis of proteins recovered from cell culture medium revealed specific heat stress-induced protein accumulation within the sorghum secretome. Of the 265 secreted proteins identified, 31 responded to heat (2-fold change), with 84% possessing a predicted signal peptide for targeting to the classical secretory pathway. The differentially accumulated proteins have putative functions in metabolism, detoxification, and protein modifications. A germin (SORBI_3003G427700) was highly heat-inducible at both protein and gene level. Overall, our study reveals new insights into sorghum responses to heat and provides a useful resource of extracellular proteins that could serve as targets for developing thermotolerant crops. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021536.
PXD018726	33105837	Proteomic Investigations of Two Pakistani Naja Snake Venoms Species Unravel the Venom Complexity, Posttranslational Modifications, and Presence of Extracellular Vesicles. 	Proteomic Investigations of Two Pakistani Naja Snake Venoms Species Unravel the Venom Complexity, Posttranslational Modifications and Presence of Extracellular Vesicles	Naja naja, Naja oxiana, venom proteome	Latest advancement of omics technologies allows in-depth characterization of venom compositions. In the present work we present a proteomic study of two snake venoms of the genus Naja i.e., Naja naja (black cobra) and Naja oxiana (brown cobra) of Pakistani origin. The present study has shown that these snake venoms consist of a highly diversified proteome. Furthermore, the data also revealed variation among closely related species. High throughput mass spectrometric analysis of the venom proteome allowed to identify for the N. naja venom 34 protein families and for the N. oxiana 24 protein families. The comparative evaluation of the two venoms showed that N. naja consists of a more complex venom proteome than N. oxiana venom. Analysis also showed N-terminal acetylation (N-ace) of a few proteins in both venoms. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study revealing this posttranslational modification in snake venom. N-ace can shed light on the mechanism of regulation of venom proteins inside the venom gland. Furthermore, our data showed the presence of other body proteins, e.g., ankyrin repeats, leucine repeats, zinc finger, cobra serum albumin, transferrin, insulin, deoxyribonuclease-2-alpha, and other regulatory proteins in these venoms. Interestingly, our data identified Ras-GTpase type of proteins, which indicate the presence of extracellular vesicles in the venom. The data can support the production of distinct and specific anti-venoms and also allow a better understanding of the envenomation and mechanism of distribution of toxins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018726.
PXD021101	33105993	Alterations of Glucose Uptake and Protein Expression Related to the Insulin Signaling Pathway in the Brain of Phenobarbital-Addictive Rats by (18)F-FDG PET/CT and Proteomic Analysis. 	The alterations of proteins expression related to insulin signaling pathway in the brain of phenobarbital addictive rats by TMT	Addiction, Insulin signaling pathway, Phenobarbital, TMT	Drug addiction is a chronic relapsing brain disease. Alterations of glucose uptake and metabolism are found in the brain of drug addicts. Insulin mediates brain glucose metabolism and its abnormality could induce brain injury and cognitive impairment. Here, we established a rat model of phenobarbital addiction by 90 days of dose escalation and evaluated addiction-related symptoms. We also performed (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) to detect glucose uptake in the brain and proteomic analysis of the function of the differentially expressed (DE) proteins via bioinformatics in brain tissues by liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) on days 60 and 90 of phenobarbital or 0.5% carboxymethyl cellulose sodium (CMC-Na) (vehicle) administration. The results showed that phenobarbital-addictive rats developed severe withdrawal symptoms after abstinence and glucose uptake was significantly increased in the brain. Proteomics analysis showed that numerous DE proteins were enriched after phenobarbital administration, among which CALM1, ARAF, and Cbl proteins (related to the insulin signaling pathway) were significantly downregulated on day 60 but not day 90. However, SLC27A3 and NF-kappaB1 proteins (related to insulin resistance) were significantly upregulated on day 90 (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021101). Our data indicate that the insulin signaling pathway and insulin resistance may play a role in the development of phenobarbital addiction and brain injury, so the findings may have important clinical implications.
PXD020985	33106314	A combinatorial native MS and LC-MS/MS approach reveals high intrinsic phosphorylation of human Tau but minimal levels of other key modifications. 	Combinatorial native MS and LC-MS/MS approach reveals high intrinsic phosphorylation of human Tau	Alzheimer disease, Tau protein, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, native mass spectrometry, phosphorylation	Abnormal changes of neuronal Tau protein, such as phosphorylation and aggregation, are considered hallmarks of cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease. Abnormal phosphorylation is thought to precede aggregation and therefore to promote aggregation, but the nature and extent of phosphorylation remain ill-defined. Tau contains ~85 potential phosphorylation sites, which can be phosphorylated by various kinases because the unfolded structure of Tau makes them accessible. However, methodological limitations (e.g. in MS of phosphopeptides, or antibodies against phosphoepitopes) led to conflicting results regarding the extent of Tau phosphorylation in cells. Here we present results from a new approach based on native MS of intact Tau expressed in eukaryotic cells (Sf9). The extent of phosphorylation is heterogeneous, up to ~20 phosphates per molecule distributed over 51 sites. The medium phosphorylated fraction Pm showed overall occupancies of ~8 Pi (+/- 5) with a bell-shaped distribution; the highly phosphorylated fraction Ph had 14 Pi (+/- 6). The distribution of sites was highly asymmetric (with 71% of all P-sites in the C-terminal half of Tau). All sites were on Ser or Thr residues, but none were on Tyr. Other known posttranslational modifications were near or below our detection limit (e.g. acetylation, ubiquitination). These findings suggest that normal cellular Tau shows a remarkably high extent of phosphorylation, whereas other modifications are nearly absent. This implies that abnormal phosphorylations at certain sites may not affect the extent of phosphorylation significantly and do not represent hyperphosphorylation. By implication, the pathological aggregation of Tau is not likely a consequence of high phosphorylation.
PXD019434	33106355	Discovery of biomarker candidates associated with the risk of short-term and mid/long-term relapse after infliximab withdrawal in Crohn's patients: a proteomics-based study. 	Discovery of biomarker candidates associated with the risk of short- and long-term relapse after infliximab withdrawal in Crohn's patients: a proteomics-based study	Crohns disease, biomarkers, relapse, selected reaction monitoring	OBJECTIVE: A subset of Crohn's disease (CD) patients experiences mid/long-term remission after infliximab withdrawal. Biomarkers are needed to identify those patients. DESIGN: New biomarkers of relapse were searched in the baseline serum of CD patients stopping infliximab when they were under combined therapy (antimetabolite and infliximab) and stable clinical remission (diSconTinuation in CrOhn's disease patients in stable Remission on combined therapy with Immunosuppressors cohort, n=102). From shotgun proteomics experiment (discovery step), biomarker candidates were identified and further targeted by selected reaction monitoring (verification step). The dataset was stratified to search for markers of short-term (<6 months) or mid/long-term relapse (>6 months). The risk of relapse and the predicting capacity associated with biomarker candidates were evaluated using univariate Cox model and log-rank statistic, respectively. To test their complementary predicting capacity, biomarker candidates were systematically combined in pairs. RESULTS: Distinct biomarker candidates were associated with the risk (HR) of short-term (15 proteins, 2.9<HR<16.1, p<0.05) and mid/long-term (17 proteins, 2.1<HR<4.7, p<0.05) relapse, they reflect different pathophysiological processes. In stratified and non-stratified datasets, novel marker combinations exhibited a high predicting capacity as shown by their higher Z-scores (false discovery rate <0.001) than C reactive protein and faecal calprotectin (current references in predicting relapse). CONCLUSION: We identified for the first time circulating biomarker candidates associated with the risk of mid/long-term relapse in CD patients stopping infliximab. We also highlight a sequence of pathophysiological processes leading to relapse, this could help to better understand the disease progression. Our findings may pave the way for a better non-invasive evaluation of the risk of relapse when contemplating antitumour necrosis factor alpha withdrawal in CD patients.
PXD021237	33108051	Proteomic Characterization of the Pseudomonas sp. Strain phDV1 Response to Monocyclic Aromatic Compounds. 	Proteomic characterization of the Pseudomonas sp. strain phDV1 response to monocyclic aromatic compounds	Pseudomonas, aromatic degradation, cresol, phenol	The degradation of aromatic compounds comprises an important step in the removal of pollutants and re-utilization of plastics and other non-biological polymers. Here, Pseudomonas sp. strain phDV1, a gram-negative bacterium that is selected for its ability to degrade aromatic compounds is studied. In order to understand how the aromatic compounds and their degradation products are reintroduced in the metabolism of the bacteria and the systematic/metabolic response of the bacterium to the new carbon source, the proteome of this strain is analyzed in the presence of succinate, phenol, and o-, m-, and p-cresol as the sole carbon source. As a reference proteome, the bacteria are grown in succinate and then compared with the respective proteomes of bacteria grown on phenol and different cresols. In total, 2295 proteins are identified; 1908 proteins are used for quantification between different growth conditions. The carbon source affects the synthesis of enzymes related to aromatic compound degradation and in particular the enzyme involved in the meta-pathway of monocyclic aromatic compounds degradation. In addition, proteins involved in the production of polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA), an attractive biomaterial, show higher abundance in the presence of monocyclic aromatic compounds. The results provide, for the first time, comprehensive information on the proteome response of this strain to monocyclic aromatic compounds.
PXD020946	33108353	ANGPTL2-containing small extracellular vesicles from vascular endothelial cells accelerate leukemia progression. 	EC-exosomes and BM fluid-Exosomes	BM fluid-Exosomes, EC-exosomes	Small extracellular vesicles (SEVs) are functional messengers of certain cellular niches that permit noncontact cell communications. Whether niche-specific SEVs fulfill this role in cancer is unclear. Here, we used 7 cell type-specific mouse Cre lines to conditionally knock out Vps33b in Cdh5+ or Tie2+ endothelial cells (ECs), Lepr+ BM perivascular cells, Osx+ osteoprogenitor cells, Pf4+ megakaryocytes, and Tcf21+ spleen stromal cells. We then examined the effects of reduced SEV secretion on progression of MLL-AF9-induced acute myeloid leukemia (AML), as well as normal hematopoiesis. Blocking SEV secretion from ECs, but not perivascular cells, megakaryocytes, or spleen stromal cells, markedly delayed the leukemia progression. Notably, reducing SEV production from ECs had no effect on normal hematopoiesis. Protein analysis showed that EC-derived SEVs contained a high level of ANGPTL2, which accelerated leukemia progression via binding to the LILRB2 receptor. Moreover, ANGPTL2-SEVs released from ECs were governed by VPS33B. Importantly, ANGPTL2-SEVs were also required for primary human AML cell maintenance. These findings demonstrate a role of niche-specific SEVs in cancer development and suggest targeting of ANGPTL2-SEVs from ECs as a potential strategy to interfere with certain types of AML.
PXD021869	33109529	Survival Following Traumatic Brain Injury in Drosophila Is Increased by Heterozygosity for a Mutation of the NF-kappaB Innate Immune Response Transcription Factor Relish. 	Heterozygous mutation of NF-B innate immune response transcription factor Relish increases survival following traumatic brain injury in Drosophila	Longitudinal, Traumatic Brain Injury	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) pathologies are caused by primary and secondary injuries. Primary injuries result from physical damage to the brain, and secondary injuries arise from cellular responses to primary injuries. A characteristic cellular response is sustained activation of inflammatory pathways commonly mediated by nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) transcription factors. Using a Drosophila melanogaster TBI model, we previously found that the main proximal transcriptional response to primary injuries is triggered by activation of Toll and Imd innate immune response pathways that engage NF-kappaB factors Dif and Relish (Rel), respectively. Here, we found by mass spectrometry that Rel protein level increased in fly heads at 4-8 hr after TBI. To investigate the necessity of Rel for secondary injuries, we generated a null allele, Reldel , by CRISPR/Cas9 editing. When heterozygous but not homozygous, the Reldel mutation reduced mortality at 24 hr after TBI and increased the lifespan of injured flies. Additionally, the effect of heterozygosity for Reldel on mortality was modulated by genetic background and diet. To identify genes that facilitate effects of Reldel on TBI outcomes, we compared genome-wide mRNA expression profiles of uninjured and injured +/+, +/Reldel , and Reldel /Reldel flies at 4 hr following TBI. Only a few genes changed expression more than twofold in +/Reldel flies relative to +/+ and Reldel /Reldel flies, and they were not canonical innate immune response genes. Therefore, Rel is necessary for TBI-induced secondary injuries but in complex ways involving Rel gene dose, genetic background, diet, and possibly small changes in expression of innate immune response genes.
PXD013174	33110978	Tandem Mass Tag-Based Serum Proteome Profiling for Biomarker Discovery in Young Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Boys. 	DMD Biomarkers in  4 years boys, DMD vs. Control study	Biomarkers, DMD, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), TMT	Blood-accessible molecular biomarkers are becoming highly attractive tools to assess disease progression and response to therapies in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) especially in very young patients for whom other outcome measures remain subjective and challenging. In this study, we have standardized a highly specific and reproducible multiplexing mass spectrometry method using the tandem mass tag (TMT) strategy in combination with depletion of abundant proteins from serum and high-pH reversed-phase peptide fractionation. Differential proteome profiling of 4 year-old DMD boys (n = 9) and age-matched healthy controls (n = 9) identified 38 elevated and 50 decreased serum proteins (adjusted P < 0.05, FDR <0.05) in the DMD group relative to the healthy control group. As expected, we confirmed previously reported biomarkers but also identified novel biomarkers. These included novel muscle injury-associated biomarkers such as telethonin, smoothelin-like protein 1, cofilin-1, and plectin, additional muscle-specific enzymes such as UTP-glucose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, pyruvate kinase PKM, lactotransferrin, tissue alpha-l-fucosidase, pantetheinase, and ficolin-1, and some pro-inflammatory and cell adhesion-associated biomarkers such as leukosialin, macrophage receptor MARCO, vitronectin, galectin-3-binding protein, and ProSAAS. The workflow including serum depletion, sample processing, and mass spectrometry analysis was found to be reproducible and stable over time with CV < 20%. Furthermore, the method was found to be superior in terms of specificity compared to other multiplexing affinity-based methods. These findings demonstrate the specificity and reliability of TMT-based mass spectrometry methods in detection and identification of serum biomarkers in presymptomatic young DMD patients.
PXD019672	33110989	Identification of Molecular Network Associated with Neuroprotective Effects of Yashtimadhu (Glycyrrhiza glabra L.) by Quantitative Proteomics of Rotenone-Induced Parkinson's Disease Model. 	Quantitative proteomics identifies Yashtimadhu as a neuroprotectant against rotenone induced cellular model of Parkinson's disease	Ayurveda, Parkinson's disease, cellular stress, complementary medicine, mitochondrial dysfunction, neurodegeneration, neuroprotection	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, whose treatment with modern therapeutics leads to a plethora of side effects with prolonged usage. Therefore, the management of PD with complementary and alternative medicine is often pursued. In the Ayurveda system of alternative medicine, Yashtimadhu choorna, a Medhya Rasayana (nootropic), prepared from the dried roots of Glycyrrhiza glabra L. (licorice), is prescribed for the management of PD with a favorable outcome. We pursued to understand the neuroprotective effects of Yashtimadhu choorna against a rotenone-induced cellular model of PD using differentiated IMR-32 cells. Cotreatment with Yashtimadhu choorna extract rescued rotenone-induced apoptosis and hyperphosphorylation of ERK-1/2. Quantitative proteomic analysis of six peptide fractions from independent biological replicates acquired 1,561,169 mass spectra, which when searched resulted in 565,008 peptide-spectrum matches mapping to 30,554 unique peptides that belonged to 4864 human proteins. Proteins commonly identified in biological replicates and >4 PSMs were considered for further analysis, leading to a refined set of 3720 proteins. Rotenone treatment differentially altered 144 proteins (fold >=1.25 or <=0.8), involved in mitochondrial, endoplasmic reticulum, and autophagy functions. Cotreatment with Yashtimadhu choorna extract rescued 84 proteins from the effect of rotenone and an additional regulation of 4 proteins. Network analysis highlighted the interaction of proteins and pathways regulated by them, which can be targeted for neuroprotection. Validation of proteomics data highlighted that Yashtimadhu confers neuroprotection by preventing mitochondrial oxidative stress and apoptosis. This discovery will pave the way for understanding the molecular action of Ayurveda drugs and developing novel therapeutics for PD.
PXD021406	33111431	N-Terminomics for the Identification of In Vitro Substrates and Cleavage Site Specificity of the SARS-CoV-2 Main Protease. 	N-terminomics for the identification of in-vitro substrates and cleavage site specificity of the SARS-CoV-2 main protease	LCMS, N-Terminomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2	The genome of coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2, encodes for two proteases, a papain like (PL(pro) ) protease and the so-called main protease (M(pro) ), a chymotrypsin-like cysteine protease, also named 3CL(pro) or non-structural protein 5 (nsp5). M(pro) is activated by autoproteolysis and is the main protease responsible for cutting the viral polyprotein into functional units. Aside from this, it is described that M(pro) proteases are also capable of processing host proteins, including those involved in the host innate immune response. To identify substrates of the three main proteases from SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2, and hCoV-NL63 coronviruses, an LC-MS based N-terminomics in vitro analysis is performed using recombinantly expressed proteases and lung epithelial and endothelial cell lysates as substrate pools. For SARS-CoV-2 M(pro) , 445 cleavage events from more than 300 proteins are identified, while 151 and 331 M(pro) derived cleavage events are identified for SARS-CoV and hCoV-NL63, respectively. These data enable to better understand the cleavage site specificity of the viral proteases and will help to identify novel substrates in vivo. All data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021406.
PXD016675	33112206	Cp1/cathepsin L is required for autolysosomal clearance in Drosophila. 	Cathepsin L is required for autolysosomal clearance in Drosophila	Cathepsin, Drosophila	Macroautophagy/autophagy is a highly conserved lysosomal degradative pathway important for maintaining cellular homeostasis. Much of our current knowledge of autophagy is focused on the initiation steps in this process. Recently, an understanding of later steps, particularly lysosomal fusion leading to autolysosome formation and the subsequent role of lysosomal enzymes in degradation and recycling, is becoming evident. Autophagy can function in both cell survival and cell death, however, the mechanisms that distinguish adaptive/survival autophagy from autophagy-dependent cell death remain to be established. Here, using proteomic analysis of Drosophila larval midguts during degradation, we identify a group of proteins with peptidase activity, suggesting a role in autophagy-dependent cell death. We show that Cp1/cathepsin L-deficient larval midgut cells accumulate aberrant autophagic vesicles due to a block in autophagic flux, yet later stages of midgut degradation are not compromised. The accumulation of large aberrant autolysosomes in the absence of Cp1 appears to be the consequence of decreased degradative capacity as they contain undigested cytoplasmic material, rather than a defect in autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Finally, we find that other cathepsins may also contribute to proper autolysosomal degradation in Drosophila larval midgut cells. Our findings provide evidence that cathepsins play an essential role in the autolysosome to maintain basal autophagy flux by balancing autophagosome production and turnover.Abbreviations: 26-29-p: 26-29kD-proteinase; ADCD: autophagy-dependent cell death; Atg8a: Autophagy-related protein 8a; Cp1/cathepsin L: Cysteine proteinase-1; CtsB: Cathepsin B; cathD: cathepsin D; CtsF: Cathepsin F; GFP: green fluorescent protein; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; Mitf: microphthalmia associated transcription factor; PCA: principal component analysis; RNAi: RNA interference; RPF: relative to puparium formation.
PXD021775	33112629	Deletion of vp0057, a Gene Encoding a Ser/Thr Protein Kinase, Impacts the Proteome and Promotes Iron Uptake and Competitive Advantage in Vibrio parahaemolyticus. 	Deletion of vp0057 impacts the proteome profile in Vibrio parahaemolyticus	Ser/Thr protein kinase, VP0057, Vibrio parahaemolyticus	The marine bacterial pathogen Vibrio parahaemolyticus is a major cause of food-borne gastroenteritis. Recent findings have demonstrated that protein phosphorylation is fundamental to the regulation of many physiological processes in pathogenic bacteria, including bacterial virulence. However, the underlying mechanisms remain to be completely clarified. Using bioinformatics analysis, we found that VP0057 may be a potential Ser/Thr protein kinase with phosphorylation activity. Thus, we constructed the vp0057-deletion mutant (Deltavp0057) from the wild-type V. parahaemolyticus serotype O3:K6 and employed a mass spectrometry-based proteomic strategy to characterize proteome-wide changes in response to vp0057 deletion, owing to the potential roles of VP0057 in V. parahaemolyticus. One hundred ninety-seven differentially expressed proteins were identified in the Deltavp0057 strain compared with the wild-type strain, among which 135 proteins were upregulated and 62 proteins were downregulated. Detailed annotation of these differentially expressed proteins was conducted. Notably, iron-related and T6SS1-related proteins were upregulated in the Deltavp0057 strain, corroborating the results by quantitative PCR. Further experiments proved that vp0057 deletion promotes Fe(2+) and Fe(3+) uptake and provides a growth competition advantage, which is controlled by iron-related and T6SS1-related proteins, respectively. Although the regulatory roles and mechanisms of VP0057 remain to be revealed in V. parahaemolyticus, our systemic analysis of the protein profile of Deltavp0057 provides a promising starting point for the intensive exploration of VP0057.
PXD014317	33112656	Proteomic analysis of mitochondrial biogenesis in cardiomyocytes differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cells. 	Proteomic analysis of mitochondrial biogenesis in cardiomyocytes differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cell	canonical pathways, cardiac differentiation, human induced pluripotent stem cells, mitochondria, upstream regulator.	Mitochondria play key roles in the differentiation and maturation of human cardiomyocytes (CMs). As human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) hold potential in the treatment of heart diseases, we sought to identify key mitochondrial pathways and regulators, which may provide targets for improving cardiac differentiation and maturation. Proteomic analysis was performed on enriched mitochondrial protein extracts isolated from hiPSC-CMs differentiated from dermal fibroblasts (dFCM) and cardiac fibroblasts (cFCM) at time points between 12 and 115 days of differentiation, and from adult and neonatal mouse hearts. Mitochondrial proteins with a twofold change at time points up to 120 days relative to 12 days were subjected to ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA). The highest upregulation was in metabolic pathways for fatty acid oxidation (FAO), the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), and branched chain amino acid (BCAA) degradation. The top upstream regulators predicted to be activated were peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha (PGC1-alpha), the insulin receptor (IR), and the retinoblastoma protein (Rb1) transcriptional repressor. IPA and immunoblotting showed upregulation of the mitochondrial LonP1 protease-a regulator of mitochondrial proteostasis, energetics, and metabolism. LonP1 knockdown increased FAO in neonatal rat ventricular cardiomyocytes (nRVMs). Our results support the notion that LonP1 upregulation negatively regulates FAO in cardiomyocytes to calibrate the flux between glucose and fatty acid oxidation. We discuss potential mechanisms by which IR, Rb1, and LonP1 regulate the metabolic shift from glycolysis to OXPHOS and FAO. These newly identified factors and pathways may help in optimizing the maturation of iPSC-CMs.
PXD021720	33114414	Characteristics of the Protein Complexes and Pores Formed by Bacillus cereus Hemolysin BL. 	Protein complexes involving haemolysin BL of Bacillus cereus	Bacillus cereus, LC-MS, haemolysin BL, secretome	Bacillus cereus Hemolysin BL is a tripartite toxin responsible for a diarrheal type of food poisoning. Open questions remain regarding its mode of action, including the extent to which complex formation prior to cell binding contributes to pore-forming activity, how these complexes are composed, and the properties of the pores formed in the target cell membrane. Distinct complexes of up to 600 kDa were found on native gels, whose structure and size were primarily defined by Hbl B. Hbl L1 and L2 were also identified in these complexes using Western blotting and an LC-MS approach. LC-MS also revealed that many other proteins secreted by B. cereus exist in complexes. Further, a decrease of toxic activity at temperatures >=60 degreesC was shown, which was unexpectedly restored at higher temperatures. This could be attributed to a release of Hbl B monomers from tight complexation, resulting in enhanced cell binding. In contrast, Hbl L1 was rather susceptible to heat, while heat treatment of Hbl L2 seemed not to be crucial. Furthermore, Hbl-induced pores had a rather small single-channel conductance of around 200 pS and a probable channel diameter of at least 1 nm on planar lipid bilayers. These were highly instable and had a limited lifetime, and were also slightly cation-selective. Altogether, this study provides astonishing new insights into the complex mechanism of Hbl pore formation, as well as the properties of the pores.
PXD020735	33114474	Radiation Response of Human Cardiac Endothelial Cells Reveals a Central Role of the cGAS-STING Pathway in the Development of Inflammation. 	Radiation response in human cardiac endothelial cells investigated by DIA-MS	DDB2, Ionizing radiation, STAT1, cGAS-STING-pathway, data-independent acquisition, endothelial cells, inflammation	Radiation-induced inflammation leading to the permeability of the endothelial barrier may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study was to investigate potential mechanisms in vitro at the level of the proteome in human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCECest2) that were exposed to radiation doses of 0, 0.25, 0.5, 2.0 and 10 Gy (60Co-gamma). Proteomics analysis was performed using mass spectrometry in a label-free data-independent acquisition mode. The data were validated using bioinformatics and immunoblotting. The low- and moderate-dose-irradiated samples (0.25 Gy, 0.5 Gy) showed only scarce proteome changes. In contrast, an activation of DNA-damage repair, inflammation, and oxidative stress pathways was seen after the high-dose treatments (2 and 10 Gy). The level of the DNA damage response protein DDB2 was enhanced early at the 10 Gy dose. The expression of proteins belonging to the inflammatory response or cGAS-STING pathway (STING, STAT1, ICAM1, ISG15) increased in a dose-dependent manner, showing the strongest effects at 10 Gy after one week. This study suggests a connection between the radiation-induced DNA damage and the induction of inflammation which supports the inhibition of the cGAS-STING pathway in the prevention of radiation-induced cardiovascular disease.
PXD021192	33114768	Proteomic Profiling of Two Distinct Populations of Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Human Seminal Plasma. 	Proteomic profiling of two distinct populations of extracellular vesicles isolated from human seminal plasma indicates their biogenesis by prostate epithelial cells and potential as biomarker for prostate cancer	extracellular vesicles, prostasomes, seminal fluid, subtypes	Body fluids contain many populations of extracellular vesicles (EV) that differ in size, cellular origin, molecular composition, and biological activities. EV in seminal plasma are in majority originating from prostate epithelial cells, and hence are also referred to as prostasomes. Nevertheless, EV are also contributed by other accessory sex glands, as well as by the testis and epididymis. In a previous study, we isolated EV from seminal plasma of vasectomized men, thereby excluding contributions from the testis and epididymis, and identified two distinct EV populations with diameters of 50 and 100 nm, respectively. In the current study, we comprehensively analyzed the protein composition of these two EV populations using quantitative Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). In total 1558 proteins were identified. Of these, =~45% was found only in the isolated 100 nm EV, 1% only in the isolated 50 nm EV, and 54% in both 100 nm and 50 nm EV. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis suggest that both originate from the prostate, but with distinct biogenesis pathways. Finally, nine proteins, including KLK3, KLK2, MSMB, NEFH, PSCA, PABPC1, TGM4, ALOX15B, and ANO7, with known prostate specific expression and alternate expression levels in prostate cancer tissue were identified. These data have potential for the discovery of EV associated prostate cancer biomarkers in blood.
PXD021035	33116123	Ketohexokinase-A acts as a nuclear protein kinase that mediates fructose-induced metastasis in breast cancer. 	Ketohexokinase-A acts as a nuclear protein kinase that mediates fructose-induced metastasis in breast cancer	breast cancer metastasis, fructose, ketohexokinase-A, nuclear translocation, serine kinase	Harmful effects of high fructose intake on health have been widely reported. Although fructose is known to promote cancer, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Here, we found that fructose triggers breast cancer metastasis through the ketohexokinase-A signaling pathway. Molecular experiments showed that ketohexokinase-A, rather than ketohexokinase-C, is necessary and sufficient for fructose-induced cell invasion. Ketohexokinase-A-overexpressing breast cancer was found to be highly metastatic in fructose-fed mice. Mechanistically, cytoplasmic ketohexokinase-A enters into the nucleus during fructose stimulation, which is mediated by LRRC59 and KPNB1. In the nucleus, ketohexokinase-A phosphorylates YWHAH at Ser25 and the YWHAH recruits SLUG to the CDH1 promoter, which triggers cell migration. This study provides the effect of nutrition on breast cancer metastasis. High intake of fructose should be restricted in cancer patients to reduce the risk of metastasis. From a therapeutic perspective, the ketohexokinase-A signaling pathway could be a potential target to prevent cancer metastasis.
PXD021698	33116138	Natural variations of SLG1 confer high-temperature tolerance in indica rice. 	Natural variations of SLG1 confer high-temperature tolerance in  indica rice	Rice, SLG1, Thermotolerance	With global warming and climate change, breeding crop plants tolerant to high-temperature stress is of immense significance. tRNA 2-thiolation is a highly conserved form of tRNA modification among living organisms. Here, we report the identification of SLG1 (Slender Guy 1), which encodes the cytosolic tRNA 2-thiolation protein 2 (RCTU2) in rice. SLG1 plays a key role in the response of rice plants to high-temperature stress at both seedling and reproductive stages. Dysfunction of SLG1 results in plants with thermosensitive phenotype, while overexpression of SLG1 enhances the tolerance of plants to high temperature. SLG1 is differentiated between the two Asian cultivated rice subspecies, indica and japonica, and the variations at both promoter and coding regions lead to an increased level of thiolated tRNA and enhanced thermotolerance of indica rice varieties. Our results demonstrate that the allelic differentiation of SLG1 confers indica rice to high-temperature tolerance, and tRNA thiolation pathway might be a potential target in the next generation rice breeding for the warming globe.
PXD016135	33116264	Proteomics of regenerated tissue in response to a titanium implant with a bioactive surface in a rat tibial defect model. 	Proteomics of regenerated tissue in response to a titanium implant with a bioactive surface in a rat tibial defect model	MS-based proteomics, bone healing, growth factors, titanium implant	Due to their excellent mechanical and biocompatibility properties, titanium-based implants are successfully used as biomedical devices. However, when new bone formation fails for different reasons, impaired fracture healing becomes a clinical problem and affects the patient's quality of life. We aimed to design a new bioactive surface of titanium implants with a synergetic PEG biopolymer-based composition for gradual delivery of growth factors (FGF2, VEGF, and BMP4) during bone healing. The optimal architecture of non-cytotoxic polymeric coatings deposited by dip coating under controlled parameters was assessed both in cultured cells and in a rat tibial defect model (100% viability). Notably, the titanium adsorbed polymer matrix induced an improved healing process when compared with the individual action of each biomolecules. High-performance mass spectrometry analysis demonstrated that recovery after a traumatic event is governed by specific differentially regulated proteins, acting in a coordinated response to the external stimulus. Predicted protein interactions shown by STRING analysis were well organized in hub-based networks related with response to chemical, wound healing and response to stress pathways. The proposed functional polymer coatings of the titanium implants demonstrated the significant improvement of bone healing process after injury.
PXD020845	33117298	Mass Spectrometric Characterization of HSV-1 L-Particles From Human Dendritic Cells and BHK21 Cells and Analysis of Their Functional Role. 	Mass spectrometric characterization of HSV-1 L-particles from human dendritic cells and BHK21 cells and analysis of their functional role	9 T cell stimulation, BHK21 cells, HSV-1, dendritic cells, heavy particles, immunomodulatory effect, light particles	Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is a very common human pathogenic virus among the world's population. The lytic replication cycle of HSV-1 is, amongst others, characterized by a tripartite viral gene expression cascade, the assembly of nucleocapsids involving their subsequent nuclear egress, tegumentation, re-envelopment and the final release of progeny viral particles. During productive infection of a multitude of different cell types, HSV-1 generates not only infectious heavy (H-) particles, but also non-infectious light (L-) particles, lacking the capsid. In monocyte-derived mature dendritic cells (mDCs), HSV-1 causes a non-productive infection with the predominant release of L-particles. Until now, the generation and function of L-particles is not well understood, however, they are described as factors transferring viral components to the cellular microenvironment. To obtain deeper insights into the L-particle composition, we performed a mass-spectrometry-based analysis of L-particles derived from HSV-1-infected mDCs or BHK21 cells and H-particles from the latter one. In total, we detected 63 viral proteins in both H- and L-particle preparations derived from HSV-1-infected BHK21 cells. In L-particles from HSV-1-infected mDCs we identified 41 viral proteins which are differentially distributed compared to L-particles from BHK21 cells. In this study, we present data suggesting that L-particles modify mDCs and suppress their T cell stimulatory capacity. Due to the plethora of specific viral proteins incorporated into and transmitted by L-particles, it is tempting to speculate that L-particles manipulate non-infected bystander cells for the benefit of the virus.
PXD017543	33117671	Effects of the Oncoprotein PAX3-FOXO1 on Modulation of Exosomes Function and Protein Content: Implications on Oxidative Stress Protection and Enhanced Plasticity. 	Exosomes derived from mouse myoblasts expressing PAX3-FOXO1 oncogene protect recipient cells from oxidative stress and promote plasticity	PAX3-FOXO1, Rhabdomyosarcoma, exosomes, oxidative stress, plasticity	Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is a highly malignant soft tissue sarcoma classified into two major histologic subtypes: embryonal (ERMS) and alveolar (ARMS). ARMS subtype is clinically more aggressive, and characterized by an oncogenic fusion protein PAX3-FOXO1 (P3F) that drives oncogenic cellular properties. To understand the role of the fusion oncoprotein in paracrine signaling, we focused on secreted exosomes, which have been demonstrated to contribute to metastasis in multiple tumor types. Advanced Proteomics-bioinformatics analysis of the protein cargo of exosomes isolated from C2C12 myoblasts transduced with P3F fusion gene revealed 52 deregulated proteins compared to control cells, with 26 enriched and 26 depleted proteins. Using both PANTHER gene classification and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software, we found that the main biological processes in which the 52 deregulated proteins are involved, include "catalytic activity," "binding," "metabolic process," and "cellular process." The pathways engaging the 26 enriched proteins include the "14-3-3 mediated signaling," "cell cycle," and "ERK5, VEGF, IGF1,and p70S6K signaling." Furthermore, the main nodes in which deregulated exosome proteins and miRNAs intersected revealed pathways conferring protection from stress and promoting plasticity. Based on the bioinformatics analysis and the altered exosome proteome profile, we performed biochemical functional analysis to study the diverse properties of these exosomes where angiogenesis, stemness, and anti-oxidative stress properties were validated using different platforms. P3F-modulated exosomes activated ERK, 4-EBP1, and MMP-2 in recipient cells, and enhanced angiogenesis and stemness. In addition, P3F led to lower cellular reactive oxygen species levels and enhanced resistance against oxidative stress; and treatment of stromal cells with P3F-modulated exosomes also conferred protection against exogenous oxidative stress. Our findings highlight the role of P3F fusion protein in modulating exosome cargo to confer a protective effect on recipient cells against oxidative stress and to promote plasticity and survival, potentially contributing to the known aggressive phenotype of the fusion gene-positive subtype of RMS.
PXD015637	33119050	Transcriptome and proteome mapping in the sheep atria reveal molecular featurets of atrial fibrillation progression. 	Transcriptome and Proteome Mapping in the Sheep Atria Reveal Molecular Features of Atrial Fibrillation Progression	Atrial Fibrillation, cardiovascular disease, data integration, transcriptomics	AIMS: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a progressive cardiac arrhythmia that increases the risk of hospitalization and adverse cardiovascular events. There is a clear demand for more inclusive and large-scale approaches to understand the molecular drivers responsible for AF, as well as the fundamental mechanisms governing the transition from paroxysmal to persistent and permanent forms. In this study, we aimed to create a molecular map of AF and find the distinct molecular programmes underlying cell type-specific atrial remodelling and AF progression. METHODS AND RESULTS: We used a sheep model of long-standing, tachypacing-induced AF, sampled right and left atrial tissue, and isolated cardiomyocytes (CMs) from control, intermediate (transition), and late time points during AF progression, and performed transcriptomic and proteome profiling. We have merged all these layers of information into a meaningful three-component space in which we explored the genes and proteins detected and their common patterns of expression. Our data-driven analysis points at extracellular matrix remodelling, inflammation, ion channel, myofibril structure, mitochondrial complexes, chromatin remodelling, and genes related to neural function, as well as critical regulators of cell proliferation as hallmarks of AF progression. Most important, we prove that these changes occur at early transitional stages of the disease, but not at later stages, and that the left atrium undergoes significantly more profound changes than the right atrium in its expression programme. The pattern of dynamic changes in gene and protein expression replicate the electrical and structural remodelling demonstrated previously in the sheep and in humans, and uncover novel mechanisms potentially relevant for disease treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of AF progression in a large animal model shows that significant changes occur at early stages, and that among others involve previously undescribed increase in mitochondria, changes to the chromatin of atrial CMs, and genes related to neural function and cell proliferation.
PXD020625	33119648	Comparative proteomic analysis of silica-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats based on tandem mass tag (TMT) quantitation technology. 	Proteomics quantitative analysis of lung tissues in silica-exposed rats	Rat, Silica	Silicosis is a systemic disease characterized by chronic persistent inflammation and incurable pulmonary fibrosis with the underlying molecular mechanisms to be fully elucidated. In this study, we employed tandem mass tag (TMT) based on quantitative proteomics technology to detect differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in lung tissues of silica-exposed rats. A total of 285 DEPs (145 upregulated and 140 downregulated) were identified. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were performed to predict the biological pathway and functional classification of the proteins. Results showed that these DEPs were mainly enriched in the phagosome, lysosome function, complement and the coagulation cascade, glutathione metabolism, focal adhesion and ECM-receptor interactions. To validate the proteomics data, we selected and analyzed the expression trends of six proteins including CD14, PSAP, GM2A, COL1A1, ITGA8 and CLDN5 using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). The consistent result between PRM and TMT indicated the reliability of our proteomic data. These findings will help to reveal the pathogenesis of silicosis and provide potential therapeutic targets. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020625.
PXD020047	33121542	Molecular repertoire of Deinococcus radiodurans after 1 year of exposure outside the International Space Station within the Tanpopo mission. 	Molecular repertoire of Deinococcus radiodurans after 1 year of exposure outside the International Space Station within the Tanpopo mission	Deinococcus radiodurans, Low Earth orbit, metabolomics, molecular stress response, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: The extraordinarily resistant bacterium Deinococcus radiodurans withstands harsh environmental conditions present in outer space. Deinococcus radiodurans was exposed for 1 year outside the International Space Station within Tanpopo orbital mission to investigate microbial survival and space travel. In addition, a ground-based simulation experiment with conditions, mirroring those from low Earth orbit, was performed. METHODS: We monitored Deinococcus radiodurans cells during early stage of recovery after low Earth orbit exposure using electron microscopy tools. Furthermore, proteomic, transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses were performed to identify molecular mechanisms responsible for the survival of Deinococcus radiodurans in low Earth orbit. RESULTS: D. radiodurans cells exposed to low Earth orbit conditions do not exhibit any morphological damage. However, an accumulation of numerous outer-membrane-associated vesicles was observed. On levels of proteins and transcripts, a multi-faceted response was detected to alleviate cell stress. The UvrABC endonuclease excision repair mechanism was triggered to cope with DNA damage. Defense against reactive oxygen species is mirrored by the increased abundance of catalases and is accompanied by the increased abundance of putrescine, which works as reactive oxygen species scavenging molecule. In addition, several proteins and mRNAs, responsible for regulatory and transporting functions showed increased abundances. The decrease in primary metabolites indicates alternations in the energy status, which is needed to repair damaged molecules. CONCLUSION: Low Earth orbit induced molecular rearrangements trigger multiple components of metabolic stress response and regulatory networks in exposed microbial cells. Presented results show that the non-sporulating bacterium Deinococcus radiodurans survived long-term low Earth orbit exposure if wavelength below 200 nm are not present, which mirrors the UV spectrum of Mars, where CO2 effectively provides a shield below 190 nm. These results should be considered in the context of planetary protection concerns and the development of new sterilization techniques for future space missions. Video Abstract.
PXD020879	33121982	Whole-proteome analysis of mesonephric-derived cancers describes new potential biomarkers. 	Whole proteome analysis of mesonephric-derived cancers describes new potential biomarkers	TMT, mesonephric	Mesonephric carcinomas (MEs) and female adnexal tumors of probable Wolffian origin (FATWO) are derived from embryologic remnants of Wolffian/mesonephric ducts. Mesonephric-like carcinomas (MLCs) show identical morphology to ME of the cervix but occur in the uterus and ovary without convincing mesonephric remnants. ME, MLC, and FATWO are challenging to diagnose due to their morphologic similarities to Mullerian/paramesonephric tumors, contributing to a lack of evidence-based and tumor-specific treatments. We performed whole-proteomic analysis on 9 ME/MLC and 56 endometrial carcinomas (ECs) to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers. Although there were no convincing differences between ME and MLC, 543 proteins showed increased expression in ME/MLC relative to EC. From these proteins, euchromatic histone lysine methyltransferase 2 (EHMT2), glutathione S-transferase Mu 3 (GSTM3), eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 2 (EEF1A2), and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta were identified as putative biomarkers. Immunohistochemistry was performed on these candidates and GATA3 in 14 ME/MLC, 8 FATWO, 155 EC, and normal tissues. Of the candidates, only GATA3 and EHMT2 were highly expressed in mesonephric remnants and mesonephric-derived male tissues. GATA3 had the highest sensitivity and specificity for ME/MLC versus EC (93% and 99%) but was absent in FATWO. EHMT2 was 100% sensitive for ME/MLC & FATWO but was not specific (65%). Similarly, EEF1A2 was reasonably sensitive to ME/MLC (92%) and FATWO (88%) but was the least specific (38%). GSTM3 performed intermediately (sensitivity for ME/MLC and FATWO: 83% and 38%, respectively; specificity 67%). Although GATA3 remained the best diagnostic biomarker for ME/MLC, we have identified EHMT2, EEF1A2, and GSTM3 as proteins of interest in these cancers. FATWO's cell of origin is uncertain and remains an area for future research.
PXD021873	33122198	Molecular architecture and domain arrangement of the placental malaria protein VAR2CSA suggests a model for carbohydrate binding. 	Molecular architecture and domain arrangement of the placental malaria protein VAR2CSA suggests a model for carbohydrate binding	ProteomeXchange project tag: Malaria Host-Pathogen Interaction Center (MaHPIC)	VAR2CSA is the placental-malaria-specific member of the antigenically variant Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1) family. It is expressed on the surface of Plasmodium falciparum-infected host red blood cells and binds to specific chondroitin-4-sulfate chains of the placental proteoglycan receptor. The functional ~310 kDa ectodomain of VAR2CSA is a multidomain protein that requires a minimum 12-mer chondroitin-4-sulfate molecule for specific, high affinity receptor binding. However, it is not known how the individual domains are organized and interact to create the receptor-binding surface, limiting efforts to exploit its potential as an effective vaccine or drug target. Using small angle X-ray scattering and single particle reconstruction from negative-stained electron micrographs of the ectodomain and multidomain constructs, we have determined the structural architecture of VAR2CSA. The relative locations of the domains creates two distinct pores that can each accommodate the 12-mer of chondroitin-4-sulfate, suggesting a model for receptor binding. This model has important implications for understanding cytoadherence of infected red blood cells and potentially provides a starting point for developing novel strategies to prevent and/or treat placental malaria.
PXD018564	33122656	Fibrinogen function achieved through multiple covalent states. 	Fibrinogen function achieved through multiple covalent states	Cysteines, Fibrinogen, Redox state, alpha2 macroglobulin	Disulfide bonds link pairs of cysteine amino acids and their formation is assumed to be complete in the mature, functional protein. Here, we test this assumption by quantifying the redox state of disulfide bonds in the blood clotting protein fibrinogen. The disulfide status of fibrinogen from healthy human donor plasma and cultured human hepatocytes are measured using differential cysteine alkylation and mass spectrometry. This analysis identifies 13 disulfide bonds that are 10-50% reduced, indicating that fibrinogen is produced in multiple disulfide-bonded or covalent states. We further show that disulfides form upon fibrin polymerization and are required for a robust fibrin matrix that withstands the mechanical forces of flowing blood and resists premature fibrinolysis. The covalent states of fibrinogen are changed by fluid shear forces ex vivo and in vivo, indicating that the different states are dynamic. These findings demonstrate that fibrinogen exists and functions as multiple covalent forms.
PXD021689	33123164	Fibrinogen-Like Protein 1 Is a Novel Biomarker for Predicting Disease Activity and Prognosis of Rheumatoid Arthritis. 	Fibrinogen-like protein 1 is a novel biomarker for predicting disease activity and prognosis of rheumatoid arthritis	biomarke, rheumatoid arthritis	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), afflicting over 1% of the population, is an inflammatory joint disease leading to cartilage damage and ultimately impaired joint function. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs are considered as the first-line treatment to inhibit the progression of RA, and the treatment depends on the disease status assessment. The disease activity score 28 as clinical gold standard is extensively used for RA assessment, but it has the limitations of delayed assessment and the need for specialized expertise. It is necessary to discover biomarkers that can precisely monitor disease activity, and provide optimized treatment for RA patients. A total of 1,244 participants from two independent centers were divided into five cohorts. Cohorts 1-4 constituted sera samples of moderate to high active RA, low active RA, RA in remission and healthy subjects. Cohort 5 consisted of sera of RA, osteoarthritis (OA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS) and healthy subjects. Biomarkers were found from cohorts 1-2 (screening sets), cohort 3 (discovery and external validation sets), cohort 4 (drug intervention set) and cohort 5 (biomarker-specific evaluation set). We found 68 upregulated and 74 downregulated proteins by TMT-labeled proteomics in cohort 1, and fibrinogen-like protein 1 (FGL1) had the highest area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) values in cohort 2. In cohort 3, in cross-comparison among moderate/high active RA, low active RA, RA in remission and healthy subjects, FGL1 had AUC values of approximately 0.9000 and predictive values of 90%. Additionally, FGL1 had a predictive value of 91.46% for moderate/high active RA vs. remission/low active RA and 80.77% for RA in remission vs. low active RA in cohort 4. Importantly, FGL1 levels had no significant difference in OA and AS compared with healthy persons. The concentrations in SLE and pSS were improved, but approximately 3-fold lower than that in active RA in cohort 5. In summary, FGL1 is a novel and specific biomarker that could be clinically useful for predicting progression of RA.
PXD026419	33123298	Child murder in the Early Bronze Age: proteomic sex identification of a cold case from Schleinbach, Austria. 	Gendered burial practices of early Bronze Age children align with peptide-based sex identification: a case study from Franzhausen I, Austria	Sex, bronze age, burial practice, enamel peptides, gender	The identification of sex-specific peptides in human tooth enamel by nanoflow liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nanoLC-MS/MS) represents a quantum leap for the study of childhood and social relations more generally. Determining sex-related differences in prehistoric child rearing and mortality has been hampered by the insufficient accuracy in determining the biological sex of juveniles. We conducted mass spectrometric analysis to identify sex-specific peptides in the dental enamel of a child from a settlement pit of the Early Bronze Age settlement of Schleinbach, Austria (c. 1950-1850 bc). Four perimortal impression fractures on the skull of a 5-6-year-old child indicate an intentional killing, with a co-buried loom weight as possible murder weapon. Proteomic analysis, conducted for the first time on prehistoric teeth in Austria, determined the child's sex as male. While we cannot conclusively determine whether the child was the victim of conflicts between village groups or was slain by members of his own community, we suggest that contextual evidence points to the latter. A possible trigger of violence was the follow-on effects of an uncontrolled middle ear infection revealed by an osteological analysis. The boy from Schleinbach highlights the potential for further investigation of gender-biased violence, infanticide and child murder based on the recently developed method of proteomic sex identification.
PXD020077	33125225	Electron-Based Dissociation Is Needed for O-Glycopeptides Derived from OpeRATOR Proteolysis. 	Electron-based dissociation is needed for O-glycopeptides derived from OpeRATOR proteolysis	O-glycosites, OpeRATOR, electron transfer dissociation, glycoproteomics, protease	The recently described O-glycoprotease OpeRATOR presents exciting opportunities for O-glycoproteomics. This bacterial enzyme purified from Akkermansia muciniphila cleaves N-terminally to serine and threonine residues that are modified with (preferably asialylated) O-glycans. This provides orthogonal cleavage relative to canonical proteases (e.g., trypsin) for improved O-glycopeptide characterization with tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). O-glycopeptides with a modified N-terminal residue, such as those generated by OpeRATOR, present several potential benefits, perhaps the most notable being de facto O-glycosite localization without the need of glycan-retaining fragments in MS/MS spectra. Indeed, O-glycopeptides modified exclusively at the N-terminus would enable O-glycoproteomic methods to rely solely on collision-based fragmentation rather than electron-driven dissociation because glycan-retaining peptide fragments would not be required for localization. The caveat is that modified peptides would need to reliably contain only a single O-glycosite. Here, we use methods that combine collision- and electron-based fragmentation to characterize the number of O-glycosites that are present in O-glycopeptides derived from the OpeRATOR digestion of four known O-glycoproteins. Our data show that over 50% of O-glycopeptides in our sample generated from combined digestion using OpeRATOR and trypsin contain multiple O-glycosites, indicating that collision-based fragmentation alone is not sufficient. Electron-based dissociation methods are necessary to capture the O-glycopeptide diversity present in OpeRATOR digestions.
PXD018091	33125582	Quantitative proteomics revealed modulation of macrophages by MetQ gene of Streptococcus suis serotype 2. 	Quantitative proteomics revealed modulation of macrophages by MetQ gene of Streptococcus suis serotype 2.	RAW264.7 cell, SILAC	Streptococcus suis serotype 2 (SS2) is a serious zoonotic pathogen; it can lead to symptoms of streptococcal toxic shock syndrome (STSS) in humans and sepsis in pigs, and poses a great threat to public health. The SS2 MetQ gene deletion strain has attenuated antiphagocytosis, although the mechanism of antiphagocytosis and pathogenesis of MetQ in SS2 has remained unclear. In this study, stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) based liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and subsequent bioinformatics analysis was used to determine differentially expressed proteins of RAW264.7 cells infected with ^MetQ and ZY05719. Proteomic results were verified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting for selected proteins. Further research was focused mainly on immune system processes related to downregulated proteins, such as Src and Ccl9, and actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis related upregulated proteins, like Pstpip1 and Ppp1r9b. The proteomic results in this study shed light on the mechanism of antiphagocytosis and innate immunity of macrophages infected with ^MetQ and ZY05719, which might provide novel targets to prevent or control the infection of SS2.
PXD018222	33125912	Combined Omics Approaches Reveal the Roles of Non-canonical WNT7B Signaling and YY1 in the Proliferation of Human Pancreatic Progenitor Cells. 	WNT7 Promotes Proliferation of Pancreatic Progenitor Cells Differentiated from Human Pluripotent Stem Cells through Non-Canonical Wnt Signaling Pathway	pancreatic progenitor cells, phosphoproteome	The proliferation of human pancreatic progenitor cells (PPCs) is critical for developing cell therapies for diabetes. Here, using transcriptome analysis combined with small interfering RNA (siRNA) screening, we revealed that WNT7B is a downstream growth factor of AT7867, a compound known to promote the proliferation of PPCs generated from human pluripotent stem cells. Feeder cell lines stably expressing mouse Wnt7a or Wnt7b, but not other Wnts, enhanced PPC proliferation in the absence of AT7867. Importantly, Wnt7a/b ligands did not activate the canonical Wnt pathway, and PPC proliferation depended on the non-canonical Wnt/PKC pathway. A comparison of the phosphoproteome in response to AT7867 or a newly synthesized AT7867 derivative uncovered the function of YY1 as a transcriptional regulator of WNT7B. Overall, our data highlight unknown roles of non-canonical WNT7B/PKC signaling and YY1 in human PPC proliferation and will contribute to the stable supply of a cell source for pancreatic disease modeling and therapeutic applications.
PXD017211	33126421	An Exploratory Pilot Study with Plasma Protein Signatures Associated with Response of Patients with Depression to Antidepressant Treatment for 10 Weeks. 	Human plasma LC-MSMS for predicting drug-response progonosis in depressed patients at 0, 1, 4 and 10 visiting weeks	Depression, Human Proteome Project, Longitudinal analysis, Plasma, Plasma (B/D-HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of global disability with a chronic and recurrent course. Recognition of biological markers that could predict and monitor response to drug treatment could personalize clinical decision-making, minimize unnecessary drug exposure, and achieve better outcomes. Four longitudinal plasma samples were collected from each of ten patients with MDD treated with antidepressants for 10 weeks. Plasma proteins were analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively with a nanoflow LC-MS/MS technique. Of 1153 proteins identified in the 40 longitudinal plasma samples, 37 proteins were significantly associated with response/time and clustered into six according to time and response by the linear mixed model. Among them, three early-drug response markers (PHOX2B, SH3BGRL3, and YWHAE) detectable within one week were verified by liquid chromatography-multiple reaction monitoring/mass spectrometry (LC-MRM/MS) in the well-controlled 24 patients. In addition, 11 proteins correlated significantly with two or more psychiatric measurement indices. This pilot study might be useful in finding protein marker candidates that can monitor response to antidepressant treatment during follow-up visits within 10 weeks after the baseline visit.
PXD016475	33126775	Optimized Combination of HDACI and TKI Efficiently Inhibits Metabolic Activity in Renal Cell Carcinoma and Overcomes Sunitinib Resistance. 	Integrating phenotypic search and phosphoproteomic profiling of active kinases for optimization of drug mixtures for renal cell carcinoma treatment	combination therapy, drug selection, label-free, phosphokinase ranking, phosphoproteomics, renal cell carcinoma, single-shot	Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is characterized by high histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity triggering both cell motility and the development of metastasis. Therefore, there is an unmet need to establish innovative strategies to advance the use of HDAC inhibitors (HDACIs). We selected a set of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and HDACIs to test them in combination, using the validated therapeutically guided multidrug optimization (TGMO) technique based on experimental testing and in silico data modeling. We determined a synergistic low-dose three-drug combination decreasing the cell metabolic activity in metastatic ccRCC cells, Caki-1, by over 80%. This drug combination induced apoptosis and showed anti-angiogenic activity, both in original Caki-1 and in sunitinib-resistant Caki-1 cells. Through phosphoproteomic analysis, we revealed additional targets to improve the translation of this combination in 3-D (co-)culture systems. Cell-cell and cell-environment interactions increased, reverting the invasive and metastatic phenotype of Caki-1 cells. Our data suggest that our optimized low-dose drug combination is highly effective in complex in vitro settings and promotes the activity of HDACIs.
PXD022132	33127381	Glycoproteomic analysis identifies cryptdin-related sequence 1 as O-glycosylated protein modified with alpha1,2-fucose in the small intestine. 	Glycoproteomic analysis of fucose-containing proteins in small intestine identified cryptdin-related sequence 1 as O-glycosylated proteins modified with alpha1,2-fucose	CRS1, TMT, defensin, glycan, glycopeptide	The modification of galactose with alpha1,2-fucose is involved in symbiosis with intestinal bacteria and elimination of pathogenic bacteria. It is postulated that alpha1,2-fucosylated mucin secreted from goblet cells is involved in defending an organism against infections, but the detailed molecular mechanisms are yet to be elucidated. It was previously reported that Paneth cells of the small intestine were positive for UEA-1 lectin staining. However, glycoproteins in Paneth cells carrying alpha1,2-fucose have not yet been identified. Glycoproteomic analysis of ileal lysates identified 3212 O-linked and 2962 N-linked glycopeptides. In particular, cryptdin-related sequence 1 (CRS1) expressed in Paneth cells was found to be alpha1,2-fucosylated. Unlike other antimicrobial alpha-defensin proteins, CRS1 contains unique Thr residues, which are modified with O-glycans, with 3HexNAc2Hex1Fuc1NeuAc being the main glycoform. Identification of alpha1,2-fucose on the O-glycans of CRS1 expressed in Paneth cells will pave the way for a mechanistic understanding of alpha1,2-fucose-dependent symbiosis with intestinal bacteria and elimination of pathogenic bacteria in the intestine.
PXD021040	33127645	Ischemic stroke disrupts the endothelial glycocalyx through activation of proHPSE via acrolein exposure. 	Disruption of endothelial glycocalyx after ischemic stroke onset: Activated scission activity of proHPSE by acrolein exposure	acrolein heparanase	Infiltration of peripheral immune cells after blood-brain barrier dysfunction causes severe inflammation after a stroke. Although the endothelial glycocalyx, a network of membrane-bound glycoproteins and proteoglycans that covers the lumen of endothelial cells, functions as a barrier to circulating cells, the relationship between stroke severity and glycocalyx dysfunction remains unclear. In this study, glycosaminoglycans, a component of the endothelial glycocalyx, were studied in the context of ischemic stroke using a photochemically induced thrombosis mouse model. Decreased levels of heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate and increased activity of hyaluronidase 1 and heparanase (HPSE) were observed in ischemic brain tissues. HPSE expression in cerebral vessels increased after stroke onset and infarct volume greatly decreased after co-administration of N-acetylcysteine + glycosaminoglycan oligosaccharides as compared with N-acetylcysteine administration alone. These results suggest that the endothelial glycocalyx was injured after the onset of stroke. Interestingly, scission activity of proHPSE produced by immortalized endothelial cells and HEK293 cells transfected with hHPSE1 cDNA were activated by acrolein (ACR) exposure. We identified the ACR-modified amino acid residues of proHPSE using nano LC-MS/MS, suggesting that ACR modification of Lys(139) (6-kDa linker), Lys(107), and Lys(161), located in the immediate vicinity of the 6-kDa linker, at least in part is attributed to the activation of proHPSE. Because proHPSE, but not HPSE, localizes outside cells by binding with heparan sulfate proteoglycans, ACR-modified proHPSE represents a promising target to protect the endothelial glycocalyx.
PXD019443	33127837	The Complexity and Dynamics of the Tissue Glycoproteome Associated With Prostate Cancer Progression. 	Deconstructing the regulation of protein, cellular origin and tumour grade-specific N and O-glycosylation associated with prostate cancer progression	Glycoproteome, glycosylation, prostate cancer	The complexity and dynamics of the immensely heterogeneous glycoproteome of the prostate cancer (PCa) tumor microenvironment remain incompletely mapped, a knowledge gap that impedes our molecular-level understanding of the disease. To this end, we have used sensitive glycomics and glycoproteomics to map the protein-, cell-, and tumor grade-specific N- and O-glycosylation in surgically removed PCa tissues spanning five histological grades (n = 10/grade) and tissues from patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (n = 5). Quantitative glycomics revealed PCa grade-specific alterations of the oligomannosidic-, paucimannosidic-, and branched sialylated complex-type N-glycans, and dynamic remodeling of the sialylated core 1- and core 2-type O-glycome. Deep quantitative glycoproteomics identified ~7400 unique N-glycopeptides from 500 N-glycoproteins and ~500 unique O-glycopeptides from nearly 200 O-glycoproteins. With reference to a recent Tissue and Blood Atlas, our data indicate that paucimannosidic glycans of the PCa tissues arise mainly from immune cell-derived glycoproteins. Furthermore, the grade-specific PCa glycosylation arises primarily from dynamics in the cellular makeup of the PCa tumor microenvironment across grades involving increased oligomannosylation of prostate-derived glycoproteins and decreased bisecting GlcNAcylation of N-glycans carried by the extracellular matrix proteins. Furthermore, elevated expression of several oligosaccharyltransferase subunits and enhanced N-glycoprotein site occupancy were observed associated with PCa progression. Finally, correlations between the protein-specific glycosylation and PCa progression were observed including increased site-specific core 2-type O-glycosylation of collagen VI. In conclusion, integrated glycomics and glycoproteomics have enabled new insight into the complexity and dynamics of the tissue glycoproteome associated with PCa progression generating an important resource to explore the underpinning disease mechanisms.
PXD017122	33127897	An integrated model system to gain mechanistic insights into biofilm-associated antimicrobial resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa MPAO1. 	An integrated model system to study biofilm-associated adaptation to antimicrobials and resistance evolution in Pseudomonas aeruginosa MPAO1	P. aeruginosa, antibiotic resi, antimicrobials, biofilm, comparative genomics, flow chamber, genome sequencing, planktonic, proteogenomics, shotgun proteomics, strain MPAO1, transposon sequencing	Pseudomonas aeruginosa MPAO1 is the parental strain of the widely utilized transposon mutant collection for this important clinical pathogen. Here, we validate a model system to identify genes involved in biofilm growth and biofilm-associated antibiotic resistance. Our model employs a genomics-driven workflow to assemble the complete MPAO1 genome, identify unique and conserved genes by comparative genomics with the PAO1 reference strain and genes missed within existing assemblies by proteogenomics. Among over 200 unique MPAO1 genes, we identified six general essential genes that were overlooked when mapping public Tn-seq data sets against PAO1, including an antitoxin. Genomic data were integrated with phenotypic data from an experimental workflow using a user-friendly, soft lithography-based microfluidic flow chamber for biofilm growth and a screen with the Tn-mutant library in microtiter plates. The screen identified hitherto unknown genes involved in biofilm growth and antibiotic resistance. Experiments conducted with the flow chamber across three laboratories delivered reproducible data on P. aeruginosa biofilms and validated the function of both known genes and genes identified in the Tn-mutant screens. Differential protein abundance data from planktonic cells versus biofilm confirmed the upregulation of candidates known to affect biofilm formation, of structural and secreted proteins of type VI secretion systems, and provided proteogenomic evidence for some missed MPAO1 genes. This integrated, broadly applicable model promises to improve the mechanistic understanding of biofilm formation, antimicrobial tolerance, and resistance evolution in biofilms.
PXD020974	33128234	Mass spectrometry-based abundance atlas of ABC transporters in human liver, gut, kidney, brain and skin. 	Quantitative LC-MS/MS Proteomics of paediatric biliary atresia human liver microsomes	biliary atresia, paediatric livers, quantitative proteomics	ABC transporters (ATP-binding cassette transporter) traffic drugs and their metabolites across membranes, making ABC transporter expression levels a key factor regulating local drug concentrations in different tissues and individuals. Yet, quantification of ABC transporters remains challenging because they are large and low-abundance transmembrane proteins. Here, we analysed 200 samples of crude and membrane-enriched fractions from human liver, kidney, intestine, brain microvessels and skin, by label-free quantitative mass spectrometry. We identified 32 (out of 48) ABC transporters: ABCD3 was the most abundant in liver, whereas ABCA8, ABCB2/TAP1 and ABCE1 were detected in all tissues. Interestingly, this atlas unveiled that ABCB2/TAP1 may have TAP2-independent functions in the brain and that biliary atresia (BA) and control livers have quite different ABC transporter profiles. We propose that meaningful biological information can be derived from a direct comparison of these data sets.
PXD017649	33128372	The Dynamic Proteome of Oligodendrocyte Lineage Differentiation Features Planar Cell Polarity and Macroautophagy Pathways. 	The Dynamic Proteome of Oligodendrocyte Lineage Differentiation Features Planar Cell Polarity and Macroautophagy Pathways	Wnt signaling, autophagy, human embryonic stem cell, multiplexed tandem mass tag, neural stem cell, oligodendrocyte, progenitor cell, quantitative proteomics	BACKGROUND: Generation of oligodendrocytes is a sophisticated multistep process, the mechanistic underpinnings of which are not fully understood and demand further investigation. To systematically profile proteome dynamics during human embryonic stem cell differentiation into oligodendrocytes, we applied in-depth quantitative proteomics at different developmental stages and monitored changes in protein abundance using a multiplexed tandem mass tag-based proteomics approach. FINDINGS: Our proteome data provided a comprehensive protein expression profile that highlighted specific expression clusters based on the protein abundances over the course of human oligodendrocyte lineage differentiation. We identified the eminence of the planar cell polarity signalling and autophagy (particularly macroautophagy) in the progression of oligodendrocyte lineage differentiation-the cooperation of which is assisted by 106 and 77 proteins, respectively, that showed significant expression changes in this differentiation process. Furthermore, differentially expressed protein analysis of the proteome profile of oligodendrocyte lineage cells revealed 378 proteins that were specifically upregulated only in 1 differentiation stage. In addition, comparative pairwise analysis of differentiation stages demonstrated that abundances of 352 proteins differentially changed between consecutive differentiation time points. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a comprehensive systematic proteomics profile of oligodendrocyte lineage cells that can serve as a resource for identifying novel biomarkers from these cells and for indicating numerous proteins that may contribute to regulating the development of myelinating oligodendrocytes and other cells of oligodendrocyte lineage. We showed the importance of planar cell polarity signalling in oligodendrocyte lineage differentiation and revealed the autophagy-related proteins that participate in oligodendrocyte lineage differentiation.
PXD020181	33128823	Metabolic shift underlies recovery in reversible infantile respiratory chain deficiency. 	Metabolic shift underlies recovery in reversible infantile respiratory chain deficiency	digenic inheritance, homoplasmic tRNA mutation, mitochondrial myopathy, reversible infantile respiratory chain deficiency	Reversible infantile respiratory chain deficiency (RIRCD) is a rare mitochondrial myopathy leading to severe metabolic disturbances in infants, which recover spontaneously after 6-months of age. RIRCD is associated with the homoplasmic m.14674T>C mitochondrial DNA mutation; however, only ~ 1/100 carriers develop the disease. We studied 27 affected and 15 unaffected individuals from 19 families and found additional heterozygous mutations in nuclear genes interacting with mt-tRNAGlu including EARS2 and TRMU in the majority of affected individuals, but not in healthy carriers of m.14674T>C, supporting a digenic inheritance. Our transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of patient muscle suggests a stepwise mechanism where first, the integrated stress response associated with increased FGF21 and GDF15 expression enhances the metabolism modulated by serine biosynthesis, one carbon metabolism, TCA lipid oxidation and amino acid availability, while in the second step mTOR activation leads to increased mitochondrial biogenesis. Our data suggest that the spontaneous recovery in infants with digenic mutations may be modulated by the above described changes. Similar mechanisms may explain the variable penetrance and tissue specificity of other mtDNA mutations and highlight the potential role of amino acids in improving mitochondrial disease.
PXD019106	33128875	Plasma Proteomics Identify Biomarkers and Pathogenesis of COVID-19. 	Plasma proteomics dataset of COVID-19 patients	COVID-19, Plasma	The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is a global public health crisis. However, little is known about the pathogenesis and biomarkers of COVID-19. Here, we profiled host responses to COVID-19 by performing plasma proteomics of a cohort of COVID-19 patients, including non-survivors and survivors recovered from mild or severe symptoms, and uncovered numerous COVID-19-associated alterations of plasma proteins. We developed a machine-learning-based pipeline to identify 11 proteins as biomarkers and a set of biomarker combinations, which were validated by an independent cohort and accurately distinguished and predicted COVID-19 outcomes. Some of the biomarkers were further validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using a larger cohort. These markedly altered proteins, including the biomarkers, mediate pathophysiological pathways, such as immune or inflammatory responses, platelet degranulation and coagulation, and metabolism, that likely contribute to the pathogenesis. Our findings provide valuable knowledge about COVID-19 biomarkers and shed light on the pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets of COVID-19.
PXD018136	33133029	Proteomic Analysis of UV-B-Induced Virulence-Mutant Strains of Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici Based on iTRAQ Technology. 	Proteomic analysis of UV-B-induced virulence-mutant strains of Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici based on iTRAQ technology	Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici, UV-B radiation, iTRAQ, virulence variation	The emergence of new physiological races of Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici (Pst) causing wheat stripe rust can lead to the loss of resistance of wheat cultivars to stripe rust, thus resulting in severe losses in wheat yield. In this study, after the germination of urediospores of three Pst strains including the original strain (CYR32, a dominant physiological race of Pst in China) and two virulence-mutant strains (CYR32-5 and CYR32-61) acquired from CYR32 via UV-B radiation, proteomic analysis based on isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) technology was performed on the strains. A total of 2,271 proteins were identified, and 59, 74, and 64 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were acquired in CYR32-5 vs. CYR32, CYR32-61 vs. CYR32, and CYR32-61 vs. CYR32-5, respectively. The acquired DEPs were mainly involved in energy metabolism, carbon metabolism, and cellular substance synthesis. Furthermore, quantitative reverse transcription PCR assays were used to determine the relative expression of the 6, 7, and 1 DEPs of CYR32-5 vs. CYR32, CYR32-61 vs. CYR32, and CYR32-61 vs. CYR32-5, respectively, at the transcriptional level. The relative expression levels of one, five, and one gene, respectively, encoding the DEPs, were consistent with the corresponding protein abundance determined by iTRAQ technology. Compared with CYR32, the DEPs associated with energy metabolism and stress-including E3JWK6, F4S0Z3, and A8N2Q4-were up-regulated in the mutant strains. The results indicated that the virulence-mutant strains CYR32-5 and CYR32-61 had more tolerance to stress than the original strain CYR32. The results obtained in this study are of great significance for exploring the virulence variation mechanisms of Pst, monitoring the changes in Pst populations, breeding new disease-resistant wheat cultivars, and managing wheat stripe rust sustainably.
PXD015938	33133078	Early Protein Markers of Necrotizing Enterocolitis in Plasma of Preterm Pigs Exposed to Antibiotics. 	Data in support of plasma proteomics study forearly markers of antibiotics dependent necrotising enterocolitis in preterm pigs	NEC, antibiotics, pig, plasma	Background: Most hospitalized preterm infants receive antibiotics in the first days of life to prevent or treat infections. Short-term, early antibiotic treatment may also prevent the microbiota-dependent gut inflammatory disorder, necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). It remains a challenge to predict NEC, and a few early blood diagnostic markers exist. Using preterm pigs as model for infants, blood parameters and plasma proteins affected by early progression of NEC were profiled in preterm pigs subjected to oral, systemic, or no antibiotics after preterm birth. Methods: Preterm newborn pigs were treated with saline (CON) or antibiotics (ampicillin, gentamicin, and metronidazole) given enterally (ENT) or parenterally (PAR), and fed formula for 4 days to induce variable microbiome-dependent sensitivities to NEC. The gut was collected for macroscopic scoring of NEC lesions and blood for hematology, blood biochemistry, and LC/MS-based plasma proteomics. Statistical modeling was applied to detect plasma proteins affected by NEC and/or antibiotics. Results: Analyzed across different antibiotic regimens, NEC progression was associated with altered blood parameters and abundance of 89 plasma proteins that were functionally involved in extracellular membrane destruction, lipid metabolism, coagulopathy, and acute phase response. Large NEC-related changes were observed in abundance of RBP4, FGA, AHSG, C5, PTPRG, and A-1-antichymotrypsin 2, indicating potential serving as early markers of NEC. Conversely, antibiotic treatment, independent of NEC, affected only 4 proteins with main differences found between ENT and CON pigs. Conclusion: Early postnatal development of NEC lesions is associated with marked plasma protein changes that may be used for early NEC diagnosis.
PXD021855	33137177	Altered rRNA processing disrupts nuclear RNA homeostasis via competition for the poly(A)-binding protein Nab2. 	S. cerevisiae Nab2-PrA interactomes in exosome, transport and ribosome biogenesis mutant backgrounds	RNA homeostasis, RNA processing, exosome, polyadenylation, ribosome biogenesis	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are key mediators of RNA metabolism. Whereas some RBPs exhibit narrow transcript specificity, others function broadly across both coding and non-coding RNAs. Here, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we demonstrate that changes in RBP availability caused by disruptions to distinct cellular processes promote a common global breakdown in RNA metabolism and nuclear RNA homeostasis. Our data shows that stabilization of aberrant ribosomal RNA (rRNA) precursors in an enp1-1 mutant causes phenotypes similar to RNA exosome mutants due to nucleolar sequestration of the poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) Nab2. Decreased nuclear PABP availability is accompanied by genome-wide changes in RNA metabolism, including increased pervasive transcripts levels and snoRNA processing defects. These phenotypes are mitigated by overexpression of PABPs, inhibition of rDNA transcription, or alterations in TRAMP activity. Our results highlight the need for cells to maintain poly(A)-RNA levels in balance with PABPs and other RBPs with mutable substrate specificity across nucleoplasmic and nucleolar RNA processes.
PXD025847	33137256	Comprehensive Analysis of the Glycome and Glycoproteome of Bovine Milk-Derived Exosomes. 	Comprehensive Analysis of the Glycome and Glycoproteome of Bovine Milk-Derived Exosomes	Bovine milk-derived exosomes (BMDEs),Glycoproteome,Mass spectrometry,Intact glycopeptide	Bovine milk-derived exosomes (BMDEs) have potential applications in the pharmaceutical industry as drug delivery carriers. A comprehensive analysis of protein glycosylation in exosomes is necessary to elucidate the process of targeted delivery. In this work, free oligosaccharides (FOSs), O-glycans, and N-glycans in BMDEs and whey were first analyzed through multiple derivation strategies. In summary, 13 FOSs, 44 O-glycans, and 94 N-glycans were identified in bovine milk. To analyze site-specific glycosylation of glycoproteins, a one-step method was used to enrich and characterize intact glycopeptides. A total of 1359 proteins including 114 glycoproteins were identified and most of these were located in the exosomes. Approximately 95 glycopeptides were initially discovered and 5 predicted glycosites were confirmed in BMDEs. Collectively, these findings revealed the characterization and distribution of glycans and glycoproteins in BMDEs, providing insight into the potential applications of BMDEs in drug delivery and food science.
PXD019960	33138264	A First Glimpse of the Mexican Fruit Fly Anastrepha ludens (Diptera: Tephritidae) Antenna Morphology and Proteome in Response to a Proteinaceous Attractant. 	Anastrepha ludens antenna proteome	Fruit fly, Nano-LC-MS/MS, Orbitrap	Anastrepha ludens is a key pest of mangoes and citrus from Texas to Costa Rica but the mechanisms of odorant perception in this species are poorly understood. Detection of volatiles in insects occurs mainly in the antenna, where molecules penetrate sensillum pores and link to soluble proteins in the hemolymph until reaching specific odor receptors that trigger signal transduction and lead to behavioral responses. Scrutinizing the molecular foundation of odorant perception in A. ludens is necessary to improve biorational management strategies against this pest. After exposing adults of three maturity stages to a proteinaceous attractant, we studied antennal morphology and comparative proteomic profiles using nano-LC-MS/MS with tandem mass tags combined with synchronous precursor selection (SPS)-MS3. Antennas from newly emerged flies exhibited dense agglomerations of olfactory sensory neurons. We discovered 4618 unique proteins in the antennas of A. ludens and identified some associated with odor signaling, including odorant-binding and calcium signaling related proteins, the odorant receptor co-receptor (Orco), and putative odorant-degrading enzymes. Antennas of sexually immature flies exhibited the most upregulation of odor perception proteins compared to mature flies exposed to the attractant. This is the first report where critical molecular players are linked to the odor perception mechanism of A. ludens.
PXD020824	33138378	Computational Analysis of Alzheimer Amyloid Plaque Composition in 2D- and Elastically Reconstructed 3D-MALDI MS Images. 	Analysis of Amyloid Plaque Composition in two mouse models of Alzheimer's disease	Abeta, Alzheimer, Amyloid plaques, Linear positive mode, MALDI, MS imaging	MALDI mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) enables label-free, spatially resolved analysis of a wide range of analytes in tissue sections. Quantitative analysis of MSI datasets is typically performed on single pixels or manually assigned regions of interest (ROIs). However, many sparse, small objects such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain deposits of amyloid peptides called plaques are neither single pixels nor ROIs. Here, we propose a new approach to facilitate the comparative computational evaluation of amyloid plaque-like objects by MSI: a fast PLAQUE PICKER tool that enables a statistical evaluation of heterogeneous amyloid peptide composition. Comparing two AD mouse models, APP NL-G-F and APP PS1, we identified distinct heterogeneous plaque populations in the NL-G-F model but only one class of plaques in the PS1 model. We propose quantitative metrics for the comparison of technical and biological MSI replicates. Furthermore, we reconstructed a high-accuracy 3D-model of amyloid plaques in a fully automated fashion, employing rigid and elastic MSI image registration using structured and plaque-unrelated reference ion images. Statistical single-plaque analysis in reconstructed 3D-MSI objects revealed the Abeta1-42Arc peptide to be located either in the core of larger plaques or in small plaques without colocalization of other Abeta isoforms. In 3D, a substantially larger number of small plaques were observed than that indicated by the 2D-MSI data, suggesting that quantitative analysis of molecularly diverse sparsely-distributed features may benefit from 3D-reconstruction. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020824.
PXD019806	33139725	CFAP45 deficiency causes situs abnormalities and asthenospermia by disrupting an axonemal adenine nucleotide homeostasis module. 	CFAP45 deficiency causes situs abnormalities and asthenospermia by disrupting an axonemal adenine nucleotide homeostasis module	CFAP45, motile cilia, protein complexes	Axonemal dynein ATPases direct ciliary and flagellar beating via adenosine triphosphate (ATP) hydrolysis. The modulatory effect of adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) on flagellar beating is not fully understood. Here, we describe a deficiency of cilia and flagella associated protein 45 (CFAP45) in humans and mice that presents a motile ciliopathy featuring situs inversus totalis and asthenospermia. CFAP45-deficient cilia and flagella show normal morphology and axonemal ultrastructure. Proteomic profiling links CFAP45 to an axonemal module including dynein ATPases and adenylate kinase as well as CFAP52, whose mutations cause a similar ciliopathy. CFAP45 binds AMP in vitro, consistent with structural modelling that identifies an AMP-binding interface between CFAP45 and AK8. Microtubule sliding of dyskinetic sperm from Cfap45(-/-) mice is rescued with the addition of either AMP or ADP with ATP, compared to ATP alone. We propose that CFAP45 supports mammalian ciliary and flagellar beating via an adenine nucleotide homeostasis module.
PXD017893	33139726	Extensive 5'-surveillance guards against non-canonical NAD-caps of nuclear mRNAs in yeast. 	NAD capping of mRNAs is abundant but strongly guarded against in yeast	NAD-RNA, RNA surveillance, S.cerevisiae, decapping, npy1	The ubiquitous redox coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) acts as a non-canonical cap structure on prokaryotic and eukaryotic ribonucleic acids. Here we find that in budding yeast, NAD-RNAs are abundant (>1400 species), short (<170 nt), and mostly correspond to mRNA 5'-ends. The modification percentage of transcripts is low (<5%). NAD incorporation occurs mainly during transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II, which uses distinct promoters with a YAAG core motif for this purpose. Most NAD-RNAs are 3'-truncated. At least three decapping enzymes, Rai1, Dxo1, and Npy1, guard against NAD-RNA at different cellular locations, targeting overlapping transcript populations. NAD-mRNAs are not translatable in vitro. Our work indicates that in budding yeast, most of the NAD incorporation into RNA seems to be disadvantageous to the cell, which has evolved a diverse surveillance machinery to prematurely terminate, decap and reject NAD-RNAs.
PXD018929	33139797	Novel Aza-podophyllotoxin derivative induces oxidative phosphorylation and cell death via AMPK activation in triple-negative breast cancer. 	Novel Aza-Podophyllotoxin Derivative in Triple Negative Breast Cancer	breast cancer, drug treatment	BACKGROUND: To circumvent Warburg effect, several clinical trials for different cancers are utilising a combinatorial approach using metabolic reprogramming and chemotherapeutic agents including metformin. The majority of these metabolic interventions work via indirectly activating AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) to alter cellular metabolism in favour of oxidative phosphorylation over aerobic glycolysis. The effect of these drugs is dependent on glycaemic and insulin conditions.  Therefore, development of small molecules, which can activate AMPK, irrespective of the energy state, may be a better approach for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) treatment. METHODS: Therapeutic effect of SU212 on TNBC cells was examined using in vitro and in vivo models. RESULTS: We developed and characterised the efficacy of novel AMPK activator (SU212) that selectively induces oxidative phosphorylation and decreases glycolysis in TNBC cells, while not affecting these pathways in normal cells.   SU212 accomplished this metabolic reprogramming by activating AMPK independent of energy stress and irrespective of the glycaemic/insulin state. This leads to mitotic phase arrest and apoptosis in TNBC cells. In vivo, SU212 inhibits tumour growth, cancer progression and metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: SU212 directly activates AMPK in TNBC cells, but does not hamper glucose metabolism in normal cells. Our study provides compelling preclinical data for further development of SU212 for the treatment of TNBC.
PXD021306	33139939	Phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase signalling is spatially organized at endosomal compartments by microtubule-associated protein 4. 	PI3Kalpha Immunocomplex Identification	MAP4 protein, P85alpha antibody, PI3Kalpha, immunoprecipitation	The canonical model of agonist-stimulated phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI3K)-Akt signalling proposes that PI3K is activated at the plasma membrane, where receptors are activated and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate is concentrated. Here we show that phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate generation and activated Akt are instead largely confined to intracellular membranes upon receptor tyrosine kinase activation. Microtubule-associated protein 4 (MAP4) interacts with and controls localization of membrane vesicle-associated PI3Kalpha to microtubules. The microtubule-binding domain of MAP4 binds directly to the C2 domain of the p110alpha catalytic subunit. MAP4 controls the interaction of PI3Kalpha with activated receptors at endosomal compartments along microtubules. Loss of MAP4 results in the loss of PI3Kalpha targeting and loss of PI3K-Akt signalling downstream of multiple agonists. The MAP4-PI3Kalpha assembly defines a mechanism for spatial control of agonist-stimulated PI3K-Akt signalling at internal membrane compartments linked to the microtubule network.
PXD021679	33139953	BAHCC1 binds H3K27me3 via a conserved BAH module to mediate gene silencing and oncogenesis. 	Identification of BAHCC1 protein interactors	ap-ms, bahcc1	Trimethylated histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me3) regulates gene repression, cell-fate determination and differentiation. We report that a conserved bromo-adjacent homology (BAH) module of BAHCC1 (BAHCC1(BAH)) 'recognizes' H3K27me3 specifically and enforces silencing of H3K27me3-demarcated genes in mammalian cells. Biochemical, structural and integrated chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing-based analyses demonstrate that direct readout of H3K27me3 by BAHCC1 is achieved through a hydrophobic trimethyl-L-lysine-binding 'cage' formed by BAHCC1(BAH), mediating colocalization of BAHCC1 and H3K27me3-marked genes. BAHCC1 is highly expressed in human acute leukemia and interacts with transcriptional corepressors. In leukemia, depletion of BAHCC1, or disruption of the BAHCC1(BAH)-H3K27me3 interaction, causes derepression of H3K27me3-targeted genes that are involved in tumor suppression and cell differentiation, leading to suppression of oncogenesis. In mice, introduction of a germline mutation at Bahcc1 to disrupt its H3K27me3 engagement causes partial postnatal lethality, supporting a role in development. This study identifies an H3K27me3-directed transduction pathway in mammals that relies on a conserved BAH 'reader'.
PXD031478	33140851	Genomic Analysis of Vascular Invasion in HCC Reveals Molecular Drivers and Predictive Biomarkers. 	MYC-driven mouse HCC proteomics	Cancer, HCC, Liver, MYC, Tumor	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Vascular invasion (VI) is a critical risk factor for HCC recurrence and poor survival. The molecular drivers of vascular invasion in HCC are open for investigation. Deciphering the molecular landscape of invasive HCC will help identify therapeutic targets and noninvasive biomarkers. APPROACH AND RESULTS: To this end, we undertook this study to evaluate the genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic profile of tumors with VI using the multiplatform cancer genome atlas (The Cancer Genome Atlas; TCGA) data (n = 373). In the TCGA Liver Hepatocellular Carcinoma cohort, macrovascular invasion was present in 5% (n = 17) of tumors and microvascular invasion in 25% (n = 94) of tumors. Functional pathway analysis revealed that the MYC oncogene was a common upstream regulator of the mRNA, miRNA, and proteomic changes in VI. We performed comparative proteomic analyses of invasive human HCC and MYC-driven murine HCC and identified fibronectin to be a proteomic biomarker of invasive HCC (mouse fibronectin 1 [Fn1], P = 1.7 x 10(-11) ; human FN1, P = 1.5 x 10(-4) ) conserved across the two species. Mechanistically, we show that FN1 promotes the migratory and invasive phenotype of HCC cancer cells. We demonstrate tissue overexpression of fibronectin in human HCC using a large independent cohort of human HCC tissue microarray (n = 153; P < 0.001). Lastly, we showed that plasma fibronectin levels were significantly elevated in patients with HCC (n = 35; mean = 307.7 mug/mL; SEM = 35.9) when compared to cirrhosis (n = 10; mean = 41.8 mug/mL; SEM = 13.3; P < 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: Our study evaluates the molecular landscape of tumors with VI, identifying distinct transcriptional, epigenetic, and proteomic changes driven by the MYC oncogene. We show that MYC up-regulates fibronectin expression, which promotes HCC invasiveness. In addition, we identify fibronectin to be a promising noninvasive proteomic biomarker of VI in HCC.
PXD012498	33141586	Mild Acid Elution and MHC Immunoaffinity Chromatography Reveal Similar Albeit Not Identical Profiles of the HLA Class I Immunopeptidome. 	MHC immunopeptidome of JY cells analysed by EThcD at Orbitrap Fusion after mild acid elution	EThcD, HLA ligandome, MHC bound peptides, cysteinylation, mild acid elution, post-translational modification	To understand and treat immunology-related diseases, a comprehensive, unbiased characterization of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) peptide ligands is of key importance. Preceding the analysis by mass spectrometry, MHC class I peptide ligands are typically isolated by MHC immunoaffinity chromatography (MHC-IAC) and less often by mild acid elution (MAE). MAE may provide a cheap alternative to MHC-IAC for suspension cells but has been hampered by the high number of contaminating, MHC-unrelated peptides. Here, we optimized MAE, yielding MHC peptide ligand purities of more than 80%. When compared with MHC-IAC, obtained peptides were similar in numbers, identities, and to a large extent intensities, while the percentage of cysteinylated peptides was 5 times higher in MAE. The latter benefitted the discovery of MHC-allotype-specific, distinct cysteinylation frequencies at individual positions of MHC peptide ligands. MAE revealed many MHC ligands with unmodified, N-terminal cysteine residues which get lost in MHC-IAC workflows. The results support the idea that MAE might be particularly valuable for the high-confidence analysis of post-translational modifications by avoiding the exposure of the investigated peptides to enzymes and reactive molecules in the cell lysate. Our improved and carefully documented MAE workflow represents a high-quality, cost-effective alternative to MHC-IAC for suspension cells.
PXD016474	33142864	Marked Increased Production of Acute Phase Reactants by Skeletal Muscle during Cancer Cachexia. 	Proteomic comparison study between cancer cachexia muscle of C26 and CT mice	Biomarkers, C26 mice, atrophy, cachexia, cancer, muscle	Loss of skeletal muscle mass in cancer cachexia is recognized as a predictor of mortality. This study aimed to characterize the changes in the muscle secretome associated with cancer cachexia to gain a better understanding of the mechanisms involved and to identify secreted proteins which may reflect this wasting process. The changes in the muscle proteome of the C26 model were investigated by label-free proteomic analysis followed by a bioinformatic analysis in order to identify potentially secreted proteins. Multiple reaction monitoring and Western blotting were used to verify the presence of candidate proteins in the circulation. Our results revealed a marked increased muscular production of several acute phase reactants (APR: Haptoglobin, Serine protease inhibitor A3N, Complement C3, Serum amyloid A-1 protein) which are released in the circulation during C26 cancer cachexia. This was confirmed in other models of cancer cachexia as well as in cancer patients. Glucocorticoids and proinflammatory cytokines are responsible for an increased production of APR by muscle cells. Finally, their muscular expressions are strongly positively correlated with body weight loss as well as the muscular induction of atrogens. Our study demonstrates therefore a marked increased production of APR by the muscle in cancer cachexia.
PXD020968	33143252	Proteomic Adaptation of Streptococcus pneumoniae to the Antimicrobial Peptide Human Beta Defensin 3 (hBD3) in Comparison to Other Cell Surface Stresses. 	Proteomic adaptation of Streptococcus pneumoniae to the antimicrobial peptide human Beta Defensin 3 (hBD3) in comparison to other cell surface stresses	LL-37, Streptococcus pneumoniae, adaptation, antimicrobial peptides, hBD3	The antimicrobial peptide human Beta defensin 3 (hBD3) is an essential part of the innate immune system and is involved in protection against respiratory pathogens by specifically permeabilizing bacterial membranes. The Gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae causes serious diseases including pneumonia, meningitis, and septicemia, despite being frequently exposed to human defense molecules, including hBD3 during colonization and infection. Thus, the question arises how pneumococci adapt to stress caused by antimicrobial peptides. We addressed this subject by analyzing the proteome of S. pneumoniae after treatment with hBD3 and compared our data with the proteomic changes induced by LL-37, another crucial antimicrobial peptide present in the human respiratory tract. As antimicrobial peptides usually cause membrane perturbations, the response to the membrane active cationic detergent cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) was examined to assess the specificity of the pneumococcal response to antimicrobial peptides. In brief, hBD3 and LL-37 induce a similar response in pneumococci and especially, changes in proteins with annotated transporter and virulence function have been identified. However, LL-37 causes changes in the abundance of cell surface modification proteins that cannot be observed after treatment with hBD3. Interestingly, CTAB induces unique proteomic changes in S. pneumoniae. Though, the detergent seems to activate a two-component system that is also activated in response to antimicrobial peptide stress (TCS 05). Overall, our data represent a novel resource on pneumococcal adaptation to specific cell surface stresses on a functional level. This knowledge can potentially be used to develop strategies to circumvent pneumococcal resistance to antimicrobial peptides.
PXD020228	33143294	A Global Proteomic Approach Sheds New Light on Potential Iron-Sulfur Client Proteins of the Chloroplastic Maturation Factor NFU3. 	NFU3 is an Fe-S cluster carrier protein that is implicated in photosystem I maturation (PsaA, PsaB, PsaC). Label free proteomic approach on nfu3-2 mutant allow the discovery of  new potential client proteins	Fe-S cluster photosynthesis	Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) proteins play critical functions in plants. Most Fe-S proteins are synthetized in the cytosol as apo-proteins and the subsequent Fe-S cluster incorporation relies on specific protein assembly machineries. They are notably formed by a scaffold complex, which serves for the de novo Fe-S cluster synthesis, and by transfer proteins that insure cluster delivery to apo-targets. However, scarce information is available about the maturation pathways of most plastidial Fe-S proteins and their specificities towards transfer proteins of the associated SUF machinery. To gain more insights into these steps, the expression and protein localization of the NFU1, NFU2, and NFU3 transfer proteins were analyzed in various Arabidopsis thaliana organs and tissues showing quite similar expression patterns. In addition, quantitative proteomic analysis of an nfu3 loss-of-function mutant allowed to propose novel potential client proteins for NFU3 and to show that the protein accumulation profiles and thus metabolic adjustments differ substantially from those established in the nfu2 mutant. By clarifying the respective roles of the three plastidial NFU paralogs, these data allow better delineating the maturation process of plastidial Fe-S proteins.
PXD019950	33143316	Aprotinin Inhibits SARS-CoV-2 Replication. 	Targeted multiplexed proteomics of SARS-CoV-2 peptides in ALI cells	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, TMT, Targeted	Severe acute respiratory syndrome virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the cause of the current coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) pandemic. Protease inhibitors are under consideration as virus entry inhibitors that prevent the cleavage of the coronavirus spike (S) protein by cellular proteases. Herein, we showed that the protease inhibitor aprotinin (but not the protease inhibitor SERPINA1/alpha-1 antitrypsin) inhibited SARS-CoV-2 replication in therapeutically achievable concentrations. An analysis of proteomics and translatome data indicated that SARS-CoV-2 replication is associated with a downregulation of host cell protease inhibitors. Hence, aprotinin may compensate for downregulated host cell proteases during later virus replication cycles. Aprotinin displayed anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity in different cell types (Caco2, Calu-3, and primary bronchial epithelial cell air-liquid interface cultures) and against four virus isolates. In conclusion, therapeutic aprotinin concentrations exert anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity. An approved aprotinin aerosol may have potential for the early local control of SARS-CoV-2 replication and the prevention of COVID-19 progression to a severe, systemic disease.
PXD021444	33144569	A trimeric Rab7 GEF controls NPC1-dependent lysosomal cholesterol export. 	A trimeric Rab7 GEF controls NPC1-dependent lysosomal cholesterol export	C18orf8, Ccz1, GEF, LDL, Mon1, NPC1, Rab7, cholesterol, lysosome	Cholesterol import in mammalian cells is mediated by the LDL receptor pathway. Here, we perform a genome-wide CRISPR screen using an endogenous cholesterol reporter and identify >100 genes involved in LDL-cholesterol import. We characterise C18orf8 as a core subunit of the mammalian Mon1-Ccz1 guanidine exchange factor (GEF) for Rab7, required for complex stability and function. C18orf8-deficient cells lack Rab7 activation and show severe defects in late endosome morphology and endosomal LDL trafficking, resulting in cellular cholesterol deficiency. Unexpectedly, free cholesterol accumulates within swollen lysosomes, suggesting a critical defect in lysosomal cholesterol export. We find that active Rab7 interacts with the NPC1 cholesterol transporter and licenses lysosomal cholesterol export. This process is abolished in C18orf8-, Ccz1- and Mon1A/B-deficient cells and restored by a constitutively active Rab7. The trimeric Mon1-Ccz1-C18orf8 (MCC) GEF therefore plays a central role in cellular cholesterol homeostasis coordinating Rab7 activation, endosomal LDL trafficking and NPC1-dependent lysosomal cholesterol export.
PXD019823	33146386	PARP-1 activation after oxidative insult promotes energy stress-dependent phosphorylation of YAP1 and reduces cell viability. 	PARP-1 activation after oxidative insult promotes energy stress-dependent phosphorylation of YAP1 and reduces cell viability	PARP-1, YAP1, cell survival, energy stress, oxidative stress, phosphorylation	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1) is a nuclear enzyme that catalyze the transfer of ADP-ribose units from NAD+ to several target proteins involved in cellular stress responses. Using WRL68 (HeLa derivate) cells, we previously showed that PARP-1 activation induced by oxidative stress after H2O2 treatment lead to depletion of cellular NAD+ and ATP, which promoted cell death. In this work, LC-MS/MS-based phosphoproteomics in WRL68 cells showed that the oxidative damage induced by H2O2 increased the phosphorylation of YAP1, a transcriptional co-activator involved in cell survival, and modified the phosphorylation of other proteins involved in transcription. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of PARP-1 in H2O2-treated cells reduced YAP1 phosphorylation and degradation and increased cell viability. YAP1 silencing abrogated the protective effect of PARP-1 inhibition, indicating that YAP1 is important for the survival of WRL68 cells exposed to oxidative damage. Supplementation of NAD+ also reduced YAP1 phosphorylation, suggesting that the loss of cellular NAD+ caused by PARP-1 activation after oxidative treatment is responsible for the phosphorylation of YAP1. Finally, PARP-1 silencing after oxidative treatment diminished the activation of the metabolic sensor AMPK. Since NAD+ supplementation reduced the phosphorylation of some AMPK substrates, we hypothesized that the loss of cellular NAD+ after PARP-1 activation may induce an energy stress that activates AMPK. In summary, we showed a new crucial role of PARP-1 in the response to oxidative stress in which PARP-1 activation reduced cell viability by promoting the phosphorylation and degradation of YAP1 through a mechanism that involves the depletion of NAD+.
PXD007887	33146709	The interactome of multifunctional HAX1 protein suggests its role in the regulation of energy metabolism, de-aggregation, cytoskeleton organization and RNA-processing. 	HAX1-interactome in cervical cancer cell line (HeLa)	HAX1, HeLa, interactome	HCLS1-associated protein X-1 (HAX1) is a multifunctional protein involved in many cellular processes, including apoptosis, cell migration and calcium homeostasis, but its mode of action still remains obscure. Multiple HAX1 protein partners have been identified, but they are involved in many distinct pathways, form different complexes and do not constitute a coherent group. By characterizing HAX1 protein interactome using targeted approach, we attempt to explain HAX1 multiple functions and its role in the cell. Presented analyses indicate that HAX1 interacts weakly with a wide spectrum of proteins and its interactome tends to be cell-specific, which conforms to a profile of intrinsically disordered protein (IDP). Moreover, we have identified a mitochondrial subset of HAX1 protein partners and preliminarily characterized its involvement in the cellular response to oxidative stress and aggregation.
PXD021982	33147460	Interferon Regulatory Factors IRF1 and IRF7 Directly Regulate Gene Expression in Bats in Response to Viral Infection. 	Interferon Regulatory Factors: IRF1 and IRF7 directly regulate gene expression in bats in response to viral infection.	Bat, IFN, IRF, inflammation	Bat cells and tissue have elevated basal expression levels of antiviral genes commonly associated with interferon alpha (IFNalpha) signaling. Here, we show Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 (IRF1), 3, and 7 levels are elevated in most bat tissues and that, basally, IRFs contribute to the expression of type I IFN ligands and high expression of interferon regulated genes (IRGs). CRISPR knockout (KO) of IRF 1/3/7 in cells reveals distinct subsets of genes affected by each IRF in an IFN-ligand signaling-dependent and largely independent manner. As the master regulators of innate immunity, the IRFs control the kinetics and maintenance of the IRG response and play essential roles in response to influenza A virus (IAV), herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1), Melaka virus/Pteropine orthoreovirus 3 Melaka (PRV3M), and Middle East respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection. With its differential expression in bats compared to that in humans, this highlights a critical role for basal IRF expression in viral responses and potentially immune cell development in bats with relevance for IRF function in human biology.
PXD023306	33147495	Ubiquitinome Profiling Reveals the Landscape of Ubiquitination Regulation in Rice Young Panicles. 	Ubiquitome profiling reveals the landscape of ubiquitination regulation in young panicle	lysine ubiquitination, rice young panicle, ubiquitome	Ubiquitination, an essential post-transcriptional modification (PTM), plays a vital role in nearly every biological process, including development and growth. Despite its functions in plant reproductive development, its targets in rice panicles remain unclear. In this study, we used proteome-wide profiling of lysine ubiquitination in rice (O. sativa ssp. indica) young panicles. We created the largest ubiquitinome dataset in rice to date, identifying 1638 lysine ubiquitination sites on 916 unique proteins. We detected three conserved ubiquitination motifs, noting that acidic glutamic acid (E) and aspartic acid (D) were most frequently present around ubiquitinated lysine. Enrichment analysis of Gene Ontology (GO) annotations and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways of these ubiquitinated proteins revealed that ubiquitination plays an important role in fundamental cellular processes in rice young panicles. Interestingly, enrichment analysis of protein domains indicated that ubiquitination was enriched on a variety of receptor-like kinases and cytoplasmic tyrosine and serine-threonine kinases. Furthermore, we analyzed the crosstalk between ubiquitination, acetylation, and succinylation, and constructed a potential protein interaction network within our rice ubiquitinome. Moreover, we identified ubiquitinated proteins related to pollen and grain development, indicating that ubiquitination may play a critical role in the physiological functions in young panicles. Taken together, we reported the most comprehensive lysine ubiquitinome in rice so far, and used it to reveal the functional role of lysine ubiquitination in rice young panicles.
PXD018233	33148271	Proteomics identifies differences in fibrotic potential of extracellular vesicles from human tendon and muscle fibroblasts. 	Proteomics Identifies Differences in Fibrotic Potential of Exosomes from Human Tendon and Muscle Fibroblasts	exosomes, fibroblasts, muscle, tendon	BACKGROUND: Fibroblasts are the powerhouses responsible for the production and assembly of extracellular matrix (ECM). Their activity needs to be tightly controlled especially within the musculoskeletal system, where changes to ECM composition affect force transmission and mechanical loading that are required for effective movement of the body. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are a mode of cell-cell communication within and between tissues, which has been largely characterised in cancer. However, it is unclear what the role of healthy fibroblast-derived EVs is during tissue homeostasis. METHODS: Here, we performed proteomic analysis of small EVs derived from primary human muscle and tendon cells to identify the potential functions of healthy fibroblast-derived EVs. RESULTS: Mass spectrometry-based proteomics revealed comprehensive profiles for small EVs released from healthy human fibroblasts from different tissues. We found that fibroblast-derived EVs were more similar than EVs from differentiating myoblasts, but there were significant differences between tendon fibroblast and muscle fibroblast EVs. Small EVs from tendon fibroblasts contained higher levels of proteins that support ECM synthesis, including TGFbeta1, and muscle fibroblast EVs contained proteins that support myofiber function and components of the skeletal muscle matrix. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrates a marked heterogeneity among healthy fibroblast-derived EVs, indicating shared tasks between EVs of skeletal muscle myoblasts and fibroblasts, whereas tendon fibroblast EVs could play a fibrotic role in human tendon tissue. These findings suggest an important role for EVs in tissue homeostasis of both tendon and skeletal muscle in humans. Video abstract.
PXD021773	33149111	Systematic elucidation of neuron-astrocyte interaction in models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis using multi-modal integrated bioinformatics workflow. 	Systematic elucidation of neuron-astrocyte interaction in models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis using multi-modal integrated bioinformatics workflow	ALS, Bioinformatics, SEARCHIN, death receptor-6, motor neuron, mutant SOD1, non-cell autonomous	Cell-to-cell communications are critical determinants of pathophysiological phenotypes, but methodologies for their systematic elucidation are lacking. Herein, we propose an approach for the Systematic Elucidation and Assessment of Regulatory Cell-to-cell Interaction Networks (SEARCHIN) to identify ligand-mediated interactions between distinct cellular compartments. To test this approach, we selected a model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), in which astrocytes expressing mutant superoxide dismutase-1 (mutSOD1) kill wild-type motor neurons (MNs) by an unknown mechanism. Our integrative analysis that combines proteomics and regulatory network analysis infers the interaction between astrocyte-released amyloid precursor protein (APP) and death receptor-6 (DR6) on MNs as the top predicted ligand-receptor pair. The inferred deleterious role of APP and DR6 is confirmed in vitro in models of ALS. Moreover, the DR6 knockdown in MNs of transgenic mutSOD1 mice attenuates the ALS-like phenotype. Our results support the usefulness of integrative, systems biology approach to gain insights into complex neurobiological disease processes as in ALS and posit that the proposed methodology is not restricted to this biological context and could be used in a variety of other non-cell-autonomous communication mechanisms.
PXD021574	33149120	Cysteine oxidation and disulfide formation in the ribosomal exit tunnel. 	Cysteine oxidation and disulfide formation in the ribosomal exit tunnel	Disulfide formation, cysterine oxidation, glutathione, ribosomal exit tunnel	Understanding the conformational sampling of translation-arrested ribosome nascent chain complexes is key to understand co-translational folding. Up to now, coupling of cysteine oxidation, disulfide bond formation and structure formation in nascent chains has remained elusive. Here, we investigate the eye-lens protein gammaB-crystallin in the ribosomal exit tunnel. Using mass spectrometry, theoretical simulations, dynamic nuclear polarization-enhanced solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance and cryo-electron microscopy, we show that thiol groups of cysteine residues undergo S-glutathionylation and S-nitrosylation and form non-native disulfide bonds. Thus, covalent modification chemistry occurs already prior to nascent chain release as the ribosome exit tunnel provides sufficient space even for disulfide bond formation which can guide protein folding.
PXD019047	33149158	Perturbed structural dynamics underlie inhibition and altered efflux of the multidrug resistance pump AcrB. 	HDX-MS reveals the perturbed structural dynamics underlie inhibition and altered specificity of the multidrug efflux pump AcrB	AcrB, HDX-MS, Multi-drug efflux pumps, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), membrane proteins	Resistance-nodulation-division efflux pumps play a key role in inherent and evolved multidrug resistance in bacteria. AcrB, a prototypical member of this protein family, extrudes a wide range of antimicrobial agents out of bacteria. Although high-resolution structures exist for AcrB, its conformational fluctuations and their putative role in function are largely unknown. Here, we determine these structural dynamics in the presence of substrates using hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, complemented by molecular dynamics simulations, and bacterial susceptibility studies. We show that an efflux pump inhibitor potentiates antibiotic activity by restraining drug-binding pocket dynamics, rather than preventing antibiotic binding. We also reveal that a drug-binding pocket substitution discovered within a multidrug resistant clinical isolate modifies the plasticity of the transport pathway, which could explain its altered substrate efflux. Our results provide insight into the molecular mechanism of drug export and inhibition of a major multidrug efflux pump and the directive role of its dynamics.
PXD014691	33149299	IFITM3 functions as a PIP3 scaffold to amplify PI3K signalling in B cells. 	IFITM3-mediated regulation of cell membrane dynamics is essential for malignant B-cell transformation	BCR signaling, cell surface, leukemia, lipid rafts	Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) has previously been identified as an endosomal protein that blocks viral infection(1-3). Here we studied clinical cohorts of patients with B cell leukaemia and lymphoma, and identified IFITM3 as a strong predictor of poor outcome. In normal resting B cells, IFITM3 was minimally expressed and mainly localized in endosomes. However, engagement of the B cell receptor (BCR) induced both expression of IFITM3 and phosphorylation of this protein at Tyr20, which resulted in the accumulation of IFITM3 at the cell surface. In B cell leukaemia, oncogenic kinases phosphorylate IFITM3 at Tyr20, which causes constitutive localization of this protein at the plasma membrane. In a mouse model, Ifitm3(-/-) naive B cells developed in normal numbers; however, the formation of germinal centres and the production of antigen-specific antibodies were compromised. Oncogenes that induce the development of leukaemia and lymphoma did not transform Ifitm3(-/-) B cells. Conversely, the phosphomimetic IFITM3(Y20E) mutant induced oncogenic PI3K signalling and initiated the transformation of premalignant B cells. Mechanistic experiments revealed that IFITM3 functions as a PIP3 scaffold and central amplifier of PI3K signalling. The amplification of PI3K signals depends on IFITM3 using two lysine residues (Lys83 and Lys104) in its conserved intracellular loop as a scaffold for the accumulation of PIP3. In Ifitm3(-/-) B cells, lipid rafts were depleted of PIP3, which resulted in the defective expression of over 60 lipid-raft-associated surface receptors, and impaired BCR signalling and cellular adhesion. We conclude that the phosphorylation of IFITM3 that occurs after B cells encounter antigen induces a dynamic switch from antiviral effector functions in endosomes to a PI3K amplification loop at the cell surface. IFITM3-dependent amplification of PI3K signalling, which in part acts downstream of the BCR, is critical for the rapid expansion of B cells with high affinity to antigen. In addition, multiple oncogenes depend on IFITM3 to assemble PIP3-dependent signalling complexes and amplify PI3K signalling for malignant transformation.
PXD019539	33151080	Process and Workflow for Preparation of Disparate Mouse Tissues for Proteomic Analysis. 	Process and Workflow for Preparation of Disparate Mouse Tissues for Proteomic Analysis	Tissue proteomics, acetone precipitation, homogenization, sample preparation, tissue lyophilization	We investigated the effect of homogenization strategy and protein precipitation on downstream protein quantitation using multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (MRM-MS). Our objective was to develop a workflow capable of processing disparate tissue types with high throughput, minimal variability, and maximum purity. Similar abundances of endogenous proteins were measured in nine different mouse tissues regardless of the homogenization method used; however, protein precipitation had strong positive effects on several targets. The best throughput was achieved by lyophilizing tissues to dryness, followed by homogenization via bead-beating without sample buffer. Finally, the effect of tissue perfusion prior to dissection and collection was explored in 20 mouse tissues. MRM-MS showed decreased abundances of blood-related proteins in perfused tissues; however, complete removal was not achieved. Concentrations of nonblood proteins were largely unchanged, although significantly higher variances were observed for proteins from the perfused lung, indicating that perfusion may not be suitable for this organ. We present a simple yet effective tissue processing workflow consisting of harvest of fresh nonperfused tissue, novel lyophilization and homogenization by bead-beating, and protein precipitation. This workflow can be applied to a range of mouse tissues with the advantages of simplicity, minimal manual manipulation of samples, use of commonly available equipment, and high sample quality.
PXD021648	33151691	Cleavable Cross-Linkers and Mass Spectrometry for the Ultimate Task of Profiling Protein-Protein Interaction Networks in Vivo. 	XL-MS data analysis with MeroX and XlinkX	BSA, DSBU, MeroX, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, XlinkX, crosslinking, mass-spectromerty	Cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has matured into a potent tool to identify protein-protein interactions or to uncover protein structures in living cells, tissues, or organelles. The unique ability to investigate the interplay of proteins within their native environment delivers valuable complementary information to other advanced structural biology techniques. This Review gives a comprehensive overview of the current possible applications as well as the remaining limitations of the technique, focusing on cross-linking in highly complex biological systems like cells, organelles, or tissues. Thanks to the commercial availability of most reagents and advances in user-friendly data analysis, validation, and visualization tools, studies using XL-MS can, in theory, now also be utilized by nonexpert laboratories.
PXD017987	33151931	The RSC (Remodels the Structure of Chromatin) complex of Candida albicans shows compositional divergence with distinct roles in regulating pathogenic traits. 	Validation of Nri1/Nri2 physical interaction with the Candida albicans RSC complex	AP-MS, Candida albicans, Nri1, Nri2, RSC	Regulation of gene expression programs is crucial for the survival of microbial pathogens in host environments and for their ability to cause disease. Here we investigated the epigenetic regulator RSC (Remodels the Structure of Chromatin) in the most prevalent human fungal pathogen Candida albicans. Biochemical analysis showed that CaRSC comprises 13 subunits and contains two novel non-essential members, which we named Nri1 and Nri2 (Novel RSC Interactors) that are exclusive to the CTG clade of Saccharomycotina. Genetic analysis showed distinct essentiality of C. albicans RSC subunits compared to model fungal species suggesting functional and structural divergence of RSC functions in this fungal pathogen. Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of a conditional mutant of the essential catalytic subunit gene STH1 demonstrated global roles of RSC in C. albicans biology, with the majority of growth-related processes affected, as well as mis-regulation of genes involved in morphotype switching, host-pathogen interaction and adaptive fitness. We further assessed the functions of non-essential CaRSC subunits, showing that the novel subunit Nri1 and the bromodomain subunit Rsc4 play roles in filamentation and stress responses; and also interacted at the genetic level to regulate cell viability. Consistent with these roles, Rsc4 is required for full virulence of C. albicans in the murine model of systemic infection. Taken together, our data builds the first comprehensive study of the composition and roles of RSC in C. albicans, showing both conserved and distinct features compared to model fungal systems. The study illuminates how C. albicans uses RSC-dependent transcriptional regulation to respond to environmental signals and drive survival fitness and virulence in mammals.
PXD021642	33152132	Novel Protein Biomarkers of Monoamine Metabolism Defects Correlate with Disease Severity. 	Novel protein biomarkers of monoamine metabolism defects correlate with disease severity	monoamine metabolism defects	BACKGROUND: Genetic defects of monoamine neurotransmitters are rare neurological diseases amenable to treatment with variable response. They are major causes of early parkinsonism and other spectrum of movement disorders including dopa-responsive dystonia. OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to conduct proteomic studies in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples of patients with monoamine defects to detect biomarkers involved in pathophysiology, clinical phenotypes, and treatment response. METHODS: A total of 90 patients from diverse centers of the International Working Group on Neurotransmitter Related Disorders were included in the study (37 untreated before CSF collection, 48 treated and 5 unknown at the collection time). Clinical and molecular metadata were related to the protein abundances in the CSF. RESULTS: Concentrations of 4 proteins were significantly altered, detected by mass spectrometry, and confirmed by immunoassays. First, decreased levels of apolipoprotein D were found in severe cases of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency. Second, low levels of apolipoprotein H were observed in patients with the severe phenotype of tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency, whereas increased concentrations of oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein were found in the same subset of patients with tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency. Third, decreased levels of collagen6A3 were observed in treated patients with tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency. CONCLUSION: This study with the largest cohort of patients with monoamine defects studied so far reports the proteomic characterization of CSF and identifies 4 novel biomarkers that bring new insights into the consequences of early dopaminergic deprivation in the developing brain. They open new possibilities to understand their role in the pathophysiology of these disorders, and they may serve as potential predictors of disease severity and therapies. (c) 2020 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
PXD018980	33152504	Untangling the fibre ball: Proteomic characterization of South American camelid hair fibres by untargeted multivariate analysis and molecular networking. 	Characterisation of South American camelid fibres by proteomics	Paleoproteomics, South American camelids, hair fibres, keratins, molecular network	The proteomic analysis of hairs, yarns or textiles has emerged as a powerful method to determine species of origin, mainly used in archaeozoological research and fraud control. Differentiation between the South American camelid (SAC) species (the wild guanaco and vicuna and their respective domesticates the llama and alpaca) is particularly challenging due to poor database information and significant hybridization between species. In this study, we analysed 41 modern and 4 archaeological samples from the four SACs species. Despite strong similarities with Old World Camelidae, we identified 7 peptides specific to SACs assigned to keratin K86 and the keratin-associated proteins KAP13-1 and KAP11-1. Untargeted multivariate analysis of the LC-MS data permitted to distinguish SAC species and propose discriminant features. MS/MS-based molecular networking combined with database-assisted de novo sequencing permitted to identify 5 new taxonomic peptides assigned to K33a, K81 and/or K83 keratins and KAP19-1. These peptides differentiate the two wild species, guanaco and vicuna. These results show the value of combining database search and untargeted metabolomic approaches for paleoproteomics, and reveal for the first time the potential of molecular networks to highlight deamidation related to diagenesis and cluster highly similar peptides related to interchain homologies or intra- or inter-specific polymorphism. SIGNIFICANCE: This study used an innovative approach combining multivariate analysis of LC-MS data together with molecular networking and database-assisted de novo sequencing to identify taxonomic peptides in palaeoproteomics. It constitutes the first attempt to differentiate between hair fibres from the four South American camelids (SACs) based on proteomic analysis of modern and archaeological samples. It provides different proteomic signatures for each of the four SAC species and proposes new SAC taxonomic peptides of interest in archaeozoology and fraud control. SACs have been extensively exploited since human colonization of South America but have not been studied to the extent of their economic, cultural and heritage importance. Applied to the analysis of ancient Andean textiles, our results should permit a better understanding of cultural and pastoral practices in South America. The wild SACs are endangered by poaching and black-market sale of their fibre. For the first time, our results provide discriminant features for the determination of species of origin of contraband fibre.
PXD021106	33154739	Alterations in Oral-Nasal-Pharyngeal Microbiota and Salivary Proteins in Mouth-Breathing Children. 	Saliva LC-MS/MS of mouth breathing children	Saliva, mouth breathing children	Mouth breathing induces a series of diseases, while the influence on microbiota of oral cavity and salivary proteins remains unknown. In this study, for the first time, profiles of oral-nasal-pharyngeal microbiota among mouth-breathing children (MB group, n = 10) were compared with paired nose-breathing children (NB group, n = 10) using 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) (V3-V4 region) high-throughput sequencing. The differentially expressed salivary proteins were revealed using label-free quantification (LFQ) method, and their associations with bacterial abundance were measured by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). The overall bacterial profiles differed between the two groups, and the differences were related to the duration of mouth breathing. The diversity of oral-pharyngeal microbiota was significantly higher, and the nasal-pharyngeal species tended to be consistent (unweighted UniFrac, p = 0.38) in the MB group. Opportunistic pathogens were higher in relative abundance as follows: Acinetobacter in the anterior supragingival plaque, Neisseria in unstimulated saliva, Streptococcus pneumoniae in the pharynx, and Stenotrophomonas in the nostrils. The expression level of oxidative-stress-related salivary proteins (lactoylglutathione lyase and peroxiredoxin-5) were upregulated, while immune-related proteins (integrin alpha-M and proteasome subunit alpha type-1) were downregulated in MB group. The differentially expressed proteins were associated with specific bacteria, indicating their potentials as candidate biomarkers for the diagnosis, putatively early intervention, and therapeutic target of mouth breathing. This study showed that mouth breathing influences the oral-nasal-pharyngeal microbiota and enriches certain pathogens, accompanied with the alterations in the salivary environment. Further research on the pathological mechanisms and dynamic changes in longitudinal studies are warranted.
PXD019754	33157029	The Proteomic Landscape of Centromeric Chromatin Reveals an Essential Role for the Ctf19(CCAN) Complex in Meiotic Kinetochore Assembly. 	The proteomic landscape of centromeric chromatin reveals an essential role for the Ctf19 complex in meiotic kinetochore assembly.	Meiosis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, chromatin, kinetochores, label-free quantitation.	Kinetochores direct chromosome segregation in mitosis and meiosis. Faithful gamete formation through meiosis requires that kinetochores take on new functions that impact homolog pairing, recombination, and the orientation of kinetochore attachment to microtubules in meiosis I. Using an unbiased proteomics pipeline, we determined the composition of centromeric chromatin and kinetochores at distinct cell-cycle stages, revealing extensive reorganization of kinetochores during meiosis. The data uncover a network of meiotic chromosome axis and recombination proteins that bind to centromeres in the absence of the microtubule-binding outer kinetochore sub-complexes during meiotic prophase. We show that the Ctf19c(CCAN) inner kinetochore complex is essential for kinetochore organization in meiosis. Our functional analyses identify a Ctf19c(CCAN)-dependent kinetochore assembly pathway that is dispensable for mitotic growth but becomes critical upon meiotic entry. Therefore, changes in kinetochore composition and a distinct assembly pathway specialize meiotic kinetochores for successful gametogenesis.
PXD017267	33157031	Coordinate Regulation of Ribosome and tRNA Biogenesis Controls Hypoxic Injury and Translation. 	Ribosomal and tRNA Biogenesis Interact to Control Hypoxic Injury and Translation	LFQ and TMT quantification, Ribosomal biogenesis, SILAC analysis of protein synthesis rate, hypoxic sensitivity	The translation machinery is composed of a myriad of proteins and RNAs whose levels must be coordinated to efficiently produce proteins without wasting energy or substrate. However, protein synthesis is clearly not always perfectly tuned to its environment, as disruption of translation machinery components can lengthen lifespan and stress survival. While much has been learned from bacteria and yeast about translational regulation, much less is known in metazoans. In a screen for mutations protecting C. elegans from hypoxic stress, we isolated multiple genes impacting protein synthesis: a ribosomal RNA helicase gene, tRNA biosynthesis genes, and a gene controlling amino acid availability. To define better the mechanisms by which these genes impact protein synthesis, we performed a second screen for suppressors of the conditional developmental arrest phenotype of the RNA helicase mutant and identified genes involved in ribosome biogenesis. Surprisingly, these suppressor mutations restored normal hypoxic sensitivity and protein synthesis to the tRNA biogenesis mutants, but not to the mutant reducing amino acid uptake. Proteomic analysis demonstrated that reduced tRNA biosynthetic activity produces a selective homeostatic reduction in ribosomal subunits, thereby offering a mechanism for the suppression results. Our study uncovers an unrecognized higher-order-translation regulatory mechanism in a metazoan whereby ribosome biogenesis genes communicate with genes controlling tRNA abundance matching the global rate of protein synthesis with available resources.
PXD018752	33158955	Overexpression of Macrophage-Inducible C-Type Lectin Mincle Aggravates Proinflammatory Responses to Streptococcus pneumoniae with Fatal Outcome in Mice. 	Role of Mincle overexpression in pneumococcal pneumonia	Glc-DAG, Human Proteome Project, Mincle, Nlrp3, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), S. pneumoniae, innate immunity, lung	Macrophage-inducible C-type lectin (Mincle)-dependent sensing of pathogens triggers proinflammatory immune responses in professional phagocytes that contribute to protecting the host against pathogen invasion. In this study, we examined whether overexpression of Mincle that is designed to improve early pathogen sensing by professional phagocytes would improve lung-protective immunity against Streptococcus pneumoniae in mice. Proteomic profiling of alveolar macrophages of Mincle transgenic (tg) mice stimulated with the Mincle-specific pneumococcal ligand glucosyl-diacylglycerol (Glc-DAG) revealed increased Nlrp3 inflammasome activation and downstream IL-1beta cytokine release that was not observed in Glc-DAG-stimulated Mincle knockout or Nlrp3 knockout macrophages. Along this line, Mincle tg mice also responded with a stronger Nlrp3 expression and early proinflammatory cytokine release after challenge with S. pneumoniae, ultimately leading to fatal pneumonia in the Mincle tg mice. Importantly, Nlrp3 inhibitor treatment of Mincle tg mice significantly mitigated the observed hyperinflammatory response to pneumococcal challenge. Together, we show that overexpression of the pattern recognition receptor Mincle triggers increased Glc-DAG-dependent Nlrp3 inflammasome activation in professional phagocytes leading to fatal pneumococcal pneumonia in mice that is amenable to Nlrp3 inhibitor treatment. These data show that ectopic expression of the Mincle receptor confers increased susceptibility rather than resistance to S. pneumoniae in mice, thus highlighting the importance of an inducible Mincle receptor expression in response to microbial challenge.
PXD020245	33159915	Proteomics-Informed Identification of Luminal Targets For In Situ Diagnosis of Inflammatory Bowel Disease. 	Proteomics analysis of inflammation mouse intestine model and Caco2 cells	Caco2 cells, IBD, colon, ileum, inflammation	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic condition resulting in impaired intestinal homeostasis. Current practices for diagnosis of IBD are challenged by invasive, demanding procedures. We hypothesized that proteomics analysis could provide a powerful tool for identifying clinical biomarkers for non-invasive IBD diagnosis. Here, the global intestinal proteomes from commonly used in vitro and in vivo models of IBD were analyzed to identify apical and luminal proteins that can be targeted by orally delivered diagnostic agents. Global proteomics analysis revealed upregulated plasma membrane proteins in intestinal segments of proximal- and distal colon from dextran sulfate sodium-treated mice and also in inflamed human intestinal Caco-2 cells pretreated with pro-inflammatory agents. The upregulated colon proteins in mice were compared to the proteome of the healthy ileum, to ensure targeting of diagnostic agents to the inflamed colon. Promising target proteins for future investigations of non-invasive diagnosis of IBD were found in both systems and included Tgm2/TGM2, Icam1/ICAM1, Ceacam1/CEACAM1, and Anxa1/ANXA1. Ultimately, these findings will guide the selection of appropriate antibodies for surface functionalization of imaging agents aimed to target inflammatory biomarkers in situ.
PXD015788	33160103	The mitochondrial isoform glutathione peroxidase 3 (OsGPX3) is involved in ABA responses in rice plants. 	The Mitochondrial Glutathione Peroxidase 3 (OsGPX3) regulates ABA responses in rice plants	Abscisic acid, Glutathione Peroxidase, Label-Free, Oryza sativa	Different environmental conditions can lead plants to a condition termed oxidative stress, which is characterized by a disruption in the equilibrium between the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidant defenses. Glutathione peroxidase (GPX), an enzyme that acts as a peroxide scavenger in different organisms, has been identified as an important component in the signaling pathway during the developmental process and in stress responses in plants and yeast. Here, we demonstrate that the mitochondrial isoform of rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. Japonica cv. Nipponbare) OsGPX3 is induced after treatment with the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) and is involved in its responses and in epigenetic modifications. Plants that have been silenced for OsGPX3 (gpx3i) present substantial changes in the accumulation of proteins related to these processes. These plants also have several altered ABA responses, such as germination, ROS accumulation, stomatal closure, and dark-induced senescence. This study is the first to demonstrate that OsGPX3 plays a role in ABA signaling and corroborate that redox homeostasis enzymes can act in different and complex pathways in plant cells. SIGNIFICANCE: This work proposes the mitochondrial glutathione peroxidase (OsGPX3) as a novel ABA regulatory pathway component. Our results suggest that this antioxidant enzyme is involved in ABA-responses, highlighting the complex pathways that these proteins can participate beyond the regulation of cellular redox status.
PXD021660	33166158	Genomics- and Peptidomics-Based Discovery of Conserved and Novel Neuropeptides in the American Cockroach. 	Genomics- and Peptidomics-Based Discovery of Conserved and Novel Neuropeptides in the American Cockroach	Genomics, LCMS, Neuropeptides, Peptidomics, Periplaneta americana	As a model hemimetabolous insect species and an invasive urban pest that is globally distributed, the American cockroach, Periplaneta americana, is of great interest in both basic and applied research. Previous studies on P. americana neuropeptide identification have been based on biochemical isolation and molecular cloning. In the present study, an integrated approach of genomics- and peptidomics-based discovery was performed for neuropeptide identification in this insect species. First, 67 conserved neuropeptide or neurohormone precursor genes were predicted via an in silico analysis of the P. americana genome and transcriptome. Using a large-scale peptidomic analysis of peptide extracts from four different tissues (the central nervous system, corpora cardiac and corpora allata complex, midgut, and male accessory gland), 35 conserved (predicted) neuropeptides and a potential (novel) neuropeptide were then identified. Subsequent experiments revealed the tissue distribution, sex difference, and developmental patterns of two conserved neuropeptides (allatostatin B and short neuropeptide F) and a novel neuropeptide (PaOGS36577). Our study shows a comprehensive neuropeptidome and detailed spatiotemporal distribution patterns, providing a solid basis for future functional studies of neuropeptides in the American cockroach (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021660).
PXD018733	33166396	The catalytic activity of the translation termination factor methyltransferase Mtq2-Trm112 complex is required for large ribosomal subunit biogenesis. 	The translation release factor methyltransferase Mtq2-Trm112 is required for ribosome biogenesis	RNA processing, methyltransferase, ribosome, translation	The Mtq2-Trm112 methyltransferase modifies the eukaryotic translation termination factor eRF1 on the glutamine side chain of a universally conserved GGQ motif that is essential for release of newly synthesized peptides. Although this modification is found in the three domains of life, its exact role in eukaryotes remains unknown. As the deletion of MTQ2 leads to severe growth impairment in yeast, we have investigated its role further and tested its putative involvement in ribosome biogenesis. We found that Mtq2 is associated with nuclear 60S subunit precursors, and we demonstrate that its catalytic activity is required for nucleolar release of pre-60S and for efficient production of mature 5.8S and 25S rRNAs. Thus, we identify Mtq2 as a novel ribosome assembly factor important for large ribosomal subunit formation. We propose that Mtq2-Trm112 might modify eRF1 in the nucleus as part of a quality control mechanism aimed at proof-reading the peptidyl transferase center, where it will subsequently bind during translation termination.
PXD021751	33167340	An Unbiased Approach to Mapping the Signaling Network of the Pseudorabies Virus US3 Protein. 	An unbiased approach to mapping the signaling network of the pseudorabies virus US3 protein	PRV, Pseudorabies virus, US3, alphaherpesvirus, kinase, phosphoproteome	The US3 serine/threonine protein kinase is conserved among the alphaherpesvirus family and represents an important virulence factor. US3 plays a role in viral nuclear egress, induces dramatic alterations of the cytoskeleton, represses apoptosis, enhances gene expression and modulates the immune response. Although several substrates of US3 have been identified, an unbiased screen to identify US3 phosphorylation targets has not yet been described. Here, we perform a shotgun and phosphoproteomics analysis of cells expressing the US3 protein of pseudorabies virus (PRV) to identify US3 phosphorylation targets in an unbiased way. We identified several cellular proteins that are differentially phosphorylated upon US3 expression and validated the phosphorylation of lamin A/C at serine 404, both in US3-transfected and PRV-infected cells. These results provide new insights into the signaling network of the US3 protein kinase and may serve as a basis for future research into the role of the US3 protein in the viral replication cycle.
PXD020159	33167355	TSPAN1: A Novel Protein Involved in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Chemoresistance. 	Definition of key mechanisms of multidrug resistance of head and neck tumors to chemo- and radiotherapy treatments. Identification of new individualized antitumor drugs (Ref. GC16173720CARR)	Chemoresistance, HNSCC, cancer stem cells	Sensitization of resistant cells and cancer stem cells (CSCs) represents a major challenge in cancer therapy. A proteomic study revealed tetraspanin-1 (TSPAN1) as a protein involved in acquisition of cisplatin (CDDP) resistance (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020159). TSPAN1 was found to increase in CDDP-resistant cells, CSCs and biopsies from head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) patients. TSPAN1 depletion in parental and CDDP-resistant HNSCC cells reduced cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, decreased autophagy, sensitized to chemotherapeutic agents and inhibited several signaling cascades, with phospho-SRC inhibition being a major common target. Moreover, TSPAN1 depletion in vivo decreased the size and proliferation of parental and CDDP-resistant tumors and reduced metastatic spreading. Notably, CDDP-resistant tumors showed epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) features that disappeared upon TSPAN1 inhibition, suggesting a link of TSPAN1 with EMT and metastasis. Immunohistochemical analysis of HNSCC specimens further revealed that TSPAN1 expression was correlated with phospho-SRC (pSRC), and inversely with E-cadherin, thus reinforcing TSPAN1 association with EMT. Overall, TSPAN1 emerges as a novel oncogenic protein and a promising target for HNSCC therapy.
PXD021630	33167591	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Is Accompanied by Protein Derangements in the Olfactory Bulb-Tract Axis. 	Olfactory proteomics in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	amyotrophic lateral slcerosis, olfactory bulb, olfactory marker protein	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal disease characterized by progressive muscle paralysis due to the degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons. Recent studies point out an involvement of the non-motor axis during disease progression. Despite smell impairment being considered a potential non-motor finding in ALS, the pathobiochemistry at the olfactory level remains unknown. Here, we applied an olfactory quantitative proteotyping approach to analyze the magnitude of the olfactory bulb (OB) proteostatic imbalance in ALS subjects (n = 12) with respect to controls (n = 8). Around 3% of the quantified OB proteome was differentially expressed, pinpointing aberrant protein expression involved in vesicle-mediated transport, macroautophagy, axon development and gliogenesis in ALS subjects. The overproduction of olfactory marker protein (OMP) points out an imbalance in the olfactory signal transduction in ALS. Accompanying the specific overexpression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and Bcl-xL in the olfactory tract (OT), a tangled disruption of signaling routes was evidenced across the OB-OT axis in ALS. In particular, the OB survival signaling dynamics clearly differ between ALS and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), two faces of TDP-43 proteinopathy. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on high-throughput molecular characterization of the olfactory proteostasis in ALS.
PXD019396	33168699	Sirtuin 5 Is Regulated by the SCF(Cyclin F) Ubiquitin Ligase and Is Involved in Cell Cycle Control. 	SCFCyclin F targets the metabolic protein Sirtuin 5 for ubiquitination	Cyclin F (CCNF), Sirtuin 5 (SIRT5), cell cycle, metabolism, ubiquitin	The ubiquitin-proteasome system is essential for cell cycle progression. Cyclin F is a cell cycle-regulated substrate adapter F-box protein for the Skp1, CUL1, and F-box protein (SCF) family of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Despite its importance in cell cycle progression, identifying cyclin F-bound SCF complex (SCF(Cyclin F)) substrates has remained challenging. Since cyclin F overexpression rescues a yeast mutant in the cdc4 gene, we considered the possibility that other genes that genetically modify cdc4 mutant lethality could also encode cyclin F substrates. We identified the mitochondrial and cytosolic deacylating enzyme sirtuin 5 (SIRT5) as a novel cyclin F substrate. SIRT5 has been implicated in metabolic processes, but its connection to the cell cycle is not known. We show that cyclin F interacts with and controls the ubiquitination, abundance, and stability of SIRT5. We show SIRT5 knockout results in a diminished G1 population and a subsequent increase in both S and G2/M. Global proteomic analyses reveal cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) signaling changes congruent with the cell cycle changes in SIRT5 knockout cells. Together, these data demonstrate that SIRT5 is regulated by cyclin F and suggest a connection between SIRT5, cell cycle regulation, and metabolism.
PXD019846	33168988	Reciprocal growth control by competitive binding of nucleotide second messengers to a metabolic switch in Caulobacter crescentus. 	Reciprocal growth control by competitive binding of nucleotide second messengers to a metabolic switch in Caulobacter crescentus	adaptation, c-di-GMP, glucose metabolism, ppGpp	Bacteria use small signalling molecules such as (p)ppGpp or c-di-GMP to tune their physiology in response to environmental changes. It remains unclear whether these regulatory networks operate independently or whether they interact to optimize bacterial growth and survival. We report that (p)ppGpp and c-di-GMP reciprocally regulate the growth of Caulobacter crescentus by converging on a single small-molecule-binding protein, SmbA. While c-di-GMP binding inhibits SmbA, (p)ppGpp competes for the same binding site to sustain SmbA activity. We demonstrate that (p)ppGpp specifically promotes Caulobacter growth on glucose, whereas c-di-GMP inhibits glucose consumption. We find that SmbA contributes to this metabolic switch and promotes growth on glucose by quenching the associated redox stress. The identification of an effector protein that acts as a central regulatory hub for two global second messengers opens up future studies on specific crosstalk between small-molecule-based regulatory networks.
PXD021823	33172934	Systematic Analysis of Intronic miRNAs Reveals Cooperativity within the Multicomponent FTX Locus to Promote Colon Cancer Development. 	Systematic analysis of intronic microRNAs reveals cooperativity within the multi-component FTX locus to promote colon cancer development	A-to-I editing, Long noncoding RNA, colon cancer, microRNAs, post-transcriptional regulation	Approximately half of all miRNA reside within intronic regions and are often cotranscribed with their host genes. However, most studies of intronic miRNA focus on individual miRNA, while conversely most studies of protein-coding and noncoding genes frequently ignore any intron-derived miRNA. We hypothesize that the individual components of such multigenic loci may play cooperative or competing roles in driving disease progression and that examining the combinatorial effect of these components would uncover deeper insights into their functional importance. To address this, we performed systematic analyses of intronic miRNA:host loci in colon cancer. The FTX locus, comprising of a long noncoding RNA FTX and multiple intronic miRNA, was highly upregulated in cancer, and cooperativity within this multicomponent locus promoted cancer growth. FTX interacted with DHX9 and DICER and regulated A-to-I RNA editing and miRNA expression. These results show for the first time that a long noncoding RNA can regulate A-to-I RNA editing, further expanding the functional repertoire of long noncoding RNA. Intronic miR-374b and miR-545 inhibited tumor suppressors PTEN and RIG-I to enhance proto-oncogenic PI3K-AKT signaling. Furthermore, intronic miR-421 may exert an autoregulatory effect on miR-374b and miR-545. Taken together, our data unveil the intricate interplay between intronic miRNA and their host transcripts in the modulation of key signaling pathways and disease progression, adding new perspectives to the functional landscape of multigenic loci. SIGNIFICANCE: This study illustrates the functional relationships between individual components of multigenic loci in regulating cancer progression.See related commentary by Calin, p. 1212.
PXD019599	33172954	Engineered chemotaxis core signaling units indicate a constrained kinase-off state. 	Engineered chemotaxis core signaling units	CheA, CheW, Chemoreceptors, crosslinking	Bacterial chemoreceptors, the histidine kinase CheA, and the coupling protein CheW form transmembrane molecular arrays with remarkable sensing properties. The receptors inhibit or stimulate CheA kinase activity depending on the presence of attractants or repellants, respectively. We engineered chemoreceptor cytoplasmic regions to assume a trimer of receptor dimers configuration that formed well-defined complexes with CheA and CheW and promoted a CheA kinase-off state. These mimics of core signaling units were assembled to homogeneity and investigated by site-directed spin-labeling with pulse-dipolar electron-spin resonance spectroscopy (PDS), small-angle x-ray scattering, targeted protein cross-linking, and cryo-electron microscopy. The kinase-off state was especially stable, had relatively low domain mobility, and associated the histidine substrate and docking domains with the kinase core, thus preventing catalytic activity. Together, these data provide an experimentally restrained model for the inhibited state of the core signaling unit and suggest that chemoreceptors indirectly sequester the kinase and substrate domains to limit histidine autophosphorylation.
PXD021813	33172984	Spatial constraints on chromosomes are instrumental to meiotic pairing. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of immunoprecipitation samples of Tetrahymena meiotic proteins Melg1, Melg2, Melg3, and Tass1	Immunoprecipitation, Meiosis, Tetrahymena thermophila	In most eukaryotes, the meiotic chromosomal bouquet (comprising clustered chromosome ends) provides an ordered chromosome arrangement that facilitates pairing and recombination between homologous chromosomes. In the protist Tetrahymena thermophila, the meiotic prophase nucleus stretches enormously, and chromosomes assume a bouquet-like arrangement in which telomeres and centromeres are attached to opposite poles of the nucleus. We have identified and characterized three meiosis-specific genes [meiotic nuclear elongation 1-3 (MELG1-3)] that control nuclear elongation, and centromere and telomere clustering. The Melg proteins interact with cytoskeletal and telomere-associated proteins, and probably repurpose them for reorganizing the meiotic prophase nucleus. A lack of sequence similarity between the Tetrahymena proteins responsible for telomere clustering and bouquet proteins of other organisms suggests that the Tetrahymena bouquet is analogous, rather than homologous, to the conserved eukaryotic bouquet. We also report that centromere clustering is more important than telomere clustering for homologous pairing. Therefore, we speculate that centromere clustering may have been the primordial mechanism for chromosome pairing in early eukaryotes.
PXD017083	33173144	The Cl(-)/HCO3(-) exchanger pendrin is downregulated during oral co-administration of exogenous mineralocorticoid and KCl in patients with primary aldosteronism. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of urinary exosomes from patients with primary aldosteronism that underwent fludrocortisone suppression test	exosomes, kidney, urine	In primary aldosteronism (PA), the occurrence of K(+) loss and hypertension suggest alterations in renal tubular transport, but the molecular basis of these alterations in humans is unclear. In this study, urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) isolated from patients undergoing fludrocortisone suppression testing (FST, as a means of confirming or excluding PA) were analyzed using mass spectrometry-based proteomics to determine the combined effects of an aldosterone analogue, NaCl and KCl supplementation on renal tubular protein abundance. Of quantified proteins, the Cl(-)/HCO3(-) exchanger pendrin decreased by a median 37% [-15, 57] (P < 0.01) and the potassium channel ROMK increased by a median 31% [-10, 85] (P < 0.01) during FST among 10 PA subjects. The trends remained, but to a lesser degree, in two subjects cured of PA by unilateral adrenalectomy. In PA subjects, plasma K(+) increased from median 3.6 to 4.2 mM (P < 0.01) and 24 h urine K(+) from 101 to 202 mmol (P < 0.01), while 24 h urine Na(+)/K(+) decreased from 2.3 to 0.8 (P < 0.01). At baseline, pendrin negatively correlated with plasma K(+) (P < 0.05) and positively correlated with plasma aldosterone (P < 0.01). There were no clear correlations between Delta pendrin (Delta = D4-D0) and changes in blood or urine variables, and no correlations between ROMK in any of the blood or urine variables either at baseline or during FST. We conclude that oral co-administration of mineralocorticoid and KCl in PA patients is associated with reduced pendrin and enhanced ROMK in uEVs. Pendrin reduction during FST suggests that the suppressive effects of oral KCl may outweigh pendrin upregulation by mineralocorticoids.
PXD021122	33173522	Continuous High Frequency Deep Brain Stimulation of the Rat Anterior Insula Attenuates the Relapse Post Withdrawal and Strengthens the Extinction of Morphine Seeking. 	Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation labeling coupled with 2D-LC MS/MS proteomics analysis of anterior insula in morphine induced place preference rats with high frequency deep brain stimulation intervention	deep brain stimulation, iTRAQ, insula, morphine, rat	Deep brain stimulation (DBS) modulates the neuronal activity in specific brain circuits and has been recently considered as a promising intervention for refractory addiction. The insula cortex is the hub of interoception and is known to be involved in different aspects of substance use disorder. In the present study, we investigate the effects of continuous high frequency DBS in the anterior insula (AI) on drug-seeking behaviors and examined the molecular mechanisms of DBS action in morphine-addicted rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to the morphine-conditioned place preference (CPP, day 1-8) followed by bilaterally implanted with DBS electrodes in the AI (Day 10) and recovery (Day 10-15). Continuous high-frequency (HF) -DBS (130 Hz, 150 muA, 90 mus) was applied during withdrawal (Day 16-30) or extinction sessions. CPP tests were conducted on days 16, 30, 40 during withdrawal session and several rats were used for proteomic analysis on day 30. Following the complete extinction, morphine-CPP was reinstated by a priming dose of morphine infusion (2 mg/kg). The open field and novel objective recognition tests were also performed to evaluate the DBS side effect on the locomotion and recognition memory. Continuous HF-DBS in the AI attenuated the expression of morphine-CPP post-withdrawal (Day 30), but morphine addictive behavior relapsed 10 days after the cessation of DBS (Day 40). Continuous HF-DBS reduced the period to full extinction of morphine-CPP and blocked morphine priming-induced recurrence of morphine addiction. HF-DBS in the AI had no obvious effect on the locomotor activity and novel objective recognition and did not cause anxiety-like behavior. In addition, our proteomic analysis identified eight morphine-regulated proteins in the AI and their expression levels were reversely changed by HF-DBS. Continuous HF-DBS in the bilateral anterior insula prevents the relapse of morphine place preference after withdrawal, facilitates its extinction, blocks the reinstatement induced by morphine priming and reverses the expression of morphine-regulated proteins. Our findings suggest that manipulation of insular activity by DBS could be a potential intervention to treat substance use disorder, although future research is warranted.
PXD019566	33173740	Nidogen 1-Enriched Extracellular Vesicles Facilitate Extrahepatic Metastasis of Liver Cancer by Activating Pulmonary Fibroblasts to Secrete Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor 1. 	Nidogen 1-enriched extracellular vesicles facilitate extrahepatic metastasis of liver cancer by activating pulmonary lung fibroblasts to secrete tumor necrosis factor  receptor 1	Hepatocellular Carcinoma, NID1	In hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients with extrahepatic metastasis, the lung is the most frequent site of metastasis. However, how the lung microenvironment favors disseminated cells remains unclear. Here, it is found that nidogen 1 (NID1) in metastatic HCC cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) promotes pre-metastatic niche formation in the lung by enhancing angiogenesis and pulmonary endothelial permeability to facilitate colonization of tumor cells and extrahepatic metastasis. EV-NID1 also activates fibroblasts, which secrete tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1), facilitate lung colonization of tumor cells, and augment HCC cell growth and motility. Administration of anti-TNFR1 antibody effectively diminishes lung metastasis induced by the metastatic HCC cell-derived EVs in mice. In the clinical perspective, analysis of serum EV-NID1 and TNFR1 in HCC patients reveals their positive correlation and association with tumor stages suggesting the potential of these molecules as noninvasive biomarkers for the early detection of HCC. In conclusion, these results demonstrate the interplay of HCC EVs and activated fibroblasts in pre-metastatic niche formation and how blockage of their functions inhibits distant metastasis to the lungs. This study offers promise for the new direction of HCC treatment by targeting oncogenic EV components and their mediated pathways.
PXD020657	33174720	FluoroTRAQ: Quantitative Analysis of Protein S-Nitrosylation through Fluorous Solid-Phase Extraction Combining with iTRAQ by Mass Spectrometry. 	FluoroTRAQ: Quantitative Analysis of Protein S-nitrosylation through Fluorous Solid-phase Extraction Combining with iTRAQ by Mass Spectrometry	S-nitrosylation	S-Nitrosylation is an important post-translational modification that occurs on cysteine amino acid and regulates signal transduction in diverse cell processes. Dysregulation of protein nitrosylation has shown close association with cardiovascular and neurological diseases, thus demanding further precise and in-depth understanding. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics has been the method of choice for analyzing S-nitrosylated (SNO-) proteins. However, due to their extremely low expression level and rapid turnover rate, quantitative analysis of the S-nitrosylation at the proteomic level remains challenging. Herein, we developed a novel approach termed FluoroTRAQ, which combined the fluorous solid-phase extraction of SNO-peptides and iTRAQ labeling for the quantitative analysis of the SNO-proteome with high sensitivity and specificity. This new analytical strategy was subsequently applied to examine the dynamic SNO-proteome changes of human umbilical vein endothelial cells upon in vitro S-nitrosoglutathione induction. Our data identified a number of novel SNO-proteins and revealed their temporal modulation as validated by biotin switch assay. Our study offered a practical approach for quantitative analysis of protein S-nitrosylation.
PXD020815	33175540	HYpro16: A Two-Proteome Mixture to Assess Interference in Isobaric Tag-Based Sample Multiplexing Experiments. 	HYpro16: A Two-Proteome Mixture to Assess Interference in Isobaric Tag-Based Sample Multiplexing Experiments	Lumos, Multi-Notch, SPS-MS3, TMT, multiplex, standard	Isobaric tagging is a powerful strategy for global proteome profiling. A caveat of isobaric-tag-based quantification is "interference", which may be caused by coeluting peptides that are coisolated, cofragmented, and coanalyzed, thereby confounding quantitative accuracy. Here, we present a two-proteome standard that challenges the mass spectrometer to measure a range of protein abundance ratios in a background of potential interference. The HYpro16 standard consists of tandem mass tag (TMT) pro16-labeled human peptides at a 1:1 ratio across all channels into which is spiked TMTpro16-labeled yeast peptides in triplicate at 20:1, 10:1, 4:1, and 2:1 ratios. We showcase the HYpro16 standard by (1) altering the MS2 isolation window width and (2) examining different data acquisition methods (hrMS2, SPS-MS3, RTS-MS3). Our data illustrate that wider isolation widths moderately increase the TMT signal, the benefits of which are offset by decreased ratio accuracy. We also show that using real-time database searching (RTS)-MS3 resulted in the most accurate ratios. Additionally, the number of quantified yeast proteins using RTS-MS3 approaches that of hrMS2 when using a yeast-specific database for real-time searching. In short, this quality control standard allows for the assessment of multiple quantitative measurements within a single run, which can be compared across instruments to benchmark and track performance.
PXD008706	33176155	A Systematic Protein Turnover Map for Decoding Protein Degradation. 	A Systematic Protein Turnover Map for Decoding Protein Degradation	profiling, pulse SILAC, turnover	Protein degradation is mediated by an expansive and complex network of protein modification and degradation enzymes. Matching degradation enzymes with their targets and determining globally which proteins are degraded by the proteasome or lysosome/vacuole have been a major challenge. Furthermore, an integrated view of protein degradation for cellular pathways has been lacking. Here, we present an analytical platform that combines systematic gene deletions with quantitative measures of protein turnover to deconvolve protein degradation pathways for Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The resulting turnover map (T-MAP) reveals target candidates of nearly all E2 and E3 ubiquitin ligases and identifies the primary degradation routes for most proteins. We further mined this T-MAP to identify new substrates of ER-associated degradation (ERAD) involved in sterol biosynthesis and to uncover regulatory nodes for sphingolipid biosynthesis. The T-MAP approach should be broadly applicable to the study of other cellular processes, including mammalian systems.
PXD016651	33177505	EMC6 regulates acinar apoptosis via APAF1 in acute and chronic pancreatitis. 	Potential regulatory proteins in pancreatitis were screened by proteomics using pancreatic tissues of PRSS1 AP mice	DIA, PRSS1, pancreatitis	Treatment of acute pancreatitis (AP) and chronic pancreatitis (CP) remains problematic due to a lack of knowledge about disease-specific regulatory targets and mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to screen proteins related to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and apoptosis pathways that may play a role in pancreatitis. Human pancreatic tissues including AP, CP, and healthy volunteers were collected during surgery. Humanized PRSS1 (protease serine 1) transgenic (PRSS1(Tg)) mice were constructed and treated with caerulein to mimic the development of human AP and CP. Potential regulatory proteins in pancreatitis were identified by proteomic screen using pancreatic tissues of PRSS1(Tg) AP mice. Adenoviral shRNA-mediated knockdown of identified proteins, followed by functional assays was performed to validate their roles. Functional analyses included transmission electron microscopy for ultrastructural analysis; qRT-PCR, western blotting, co-immunoprecipitation, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence for assessment of gene or protein expression, and TUNEL assays for assessment of acinar cell apoptosis. Humanized PRSS1(Tg) mice could mimic the development of human pancreatic inflammatory diseases. EMC6 and APAF1 were identified as potential regulatory molecules in AP and CP models by proteomic analysis. Both EMC6 and APAF1 regulated apoptosis and inflammatory injury in pancreatic inflammatory diseases. Moreover, APAF1 was regulated by EMC6, induced apoptosis to injure acinar cells and promoted inflammation. In the progression of pancreatitis, EMC6 was activated and then upregulated APAF1 to induce acinar cell apoptosis and inflammatory injury. These findings suggest that EMC6 may be a new therapeutic target for the treatment of pancreatic inflammatory diseases.
PXD019736	33178156	SWL-1 Reverses Fluconazole Resistance in Candida albicans by Regulating the Glycolytic Pathway. 	CandidaalbicansProteomeprofilingdata	Candidaalbicans, Proteomeprofiling	Candida albicans is a ubiquitous clinical fungal pathogen. Prolonged use of the first-line antifungal agent fluconazole (FLC) has intensified fungal resistance and limited its effectiveness for the treatment of fungal infections. The combined administration of drugs has been extensively studied and applied. SWL-1 is a lignin compound derived from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Schisandra chinensis. In this study, we show that SWL-1 reverses resistance to fluconazole in C. albicans when delivered in combination, with a sharp decrease in the IC50 of fluconazole from >200 to 3.74 +/- 0.25 mug/ml, and also reverses the fluconazole resistance of C. albicans in vitro, with IC50 from >200 to 5.3 +/- 0.3 mug/ml. Moreover, killing kinetics curves confirmed the synergistic effects of fluconazole and SWL-1. Intriguingly, when SWL-1 was administered in combination with fluconazole in a mouse model of systemic infection, the mortality of mice was markedly decreased and fungal colonization of the kidney and lung was reduced. Further mechanistic studies showed that SWL-1 significantly decreased intracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) levels and inhibited the function of the efflux pump responsible for fluconazole resistance of C. albicans. Proteomic analysis of the effects of SWL-1 on C. albicans showed that several enzymes were downregulated in the glycolytic pathway. We speculate that SWL-1 significantly decreased intracellular ATP levels by hindering the glycolysis, and the function of the efflux pump responsible for fluconazole resistance of C. albicans was inhibited, resulting in restoration of fluconazole sensitivity in FLC-resistant C. albicans. This study clarified the effects and mechanism of SWL-1 on C. albicans in vitro and in vivo, providing a novel approach to overcoming fungal resistance.
PXD020785	33184295	A comprehensive spectral assay library to quantify the Escherichia coli proteome by DIA/SWATH-MS. 	A comprehensive spectral assay library to quantify the Escherichia coli proteome by DIA/SWATH-MS	DDA-MS, E. coli, Spectral assay library	Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) is a method to improve consistent identification and precise quantitation of peptides and proteins by mass spectrometry (MS). The targeted data analysis strategy in DIA relies on spectral assay libraries that are generally derived from a priori measurements of peptides for each species. Although Escherichia coli (E. coli) is among the best studied model organisms, so far there is no spectral assay library for the bacterium publicly available. Here, we generated a spectral assay library for 4,014 of the 4,389 annotated E. coli proteins using one- and two-dimensional fractionated samples, and ion mobility separation enabling deep proteome coverage. We demonstrate the utility of this high-quality library with robustness in quantitation of the E. coli proteome and with rapid-chromatography to enhance throughput by targeted DIA-MS. The spectral assay library supports the detection and quantification of 91.5% of all E. coli proteins at high-confidence with 56,182 proteotypic peptides, making it a valuable resource for the scientific community. Data and spectral libraries are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD020761, PXD020785) and SWATHAtlas (SAL00222-28).
PXD018989	33184936	Phosphate and phosphite have a differential impact on the proteome and phosphoproteome of Arabidopsis suspension cell cultures. 	Phosphate and phosphite differentially impact the proteome and phosphoproteome of Arabidopsis suspension cell cultures	phosphate-nutrition, phosphoproteome, quantitative proteomics	Phosphorus absorbed in the form of phosphate (H2 PO4(-) ) is an essential but limiting macronutrient for plant growth and agricultural productivity. A comprehensive understanding of how plants respond to phosphate starvation is essential for the development of more phosphate-efficient crops. Here we employed label-free proteomics and phosphoproteomics to quantify protein-level responses to 48 h of phosphate versus phosphite (H2 PO3(-) ) resupply to phosphate-deprived Arabidopsis thaliana suspension cells. Phosphite is similarly sensed, taken up and transported by plant cells as phosphate, but cannot be metabolized or used as a nutrient. Phosphite is thus a useful tool for differentiating between non-specific processes related to phosphate sensing and transport and specific responses to phosphorus nutrition. We found that responses to phosphate versus phosphite resupply occurred mainly at the level of protein phosphorylation, complemented by limited changes in protein abundance, primarily in protein translation, phosphate transport and scavenging, and central metabolism proteins. Altered phosphorylation of proteins involved in core processes such as translation, RNA splicing and kinase signaling was especially important. We also found differential phosphorylation in response to phosphate and phosphite in 69 proteins, including splicing factors, translation factors, the PHT1;4 phosphate transporter and the HAT1 histone acetyltransferase - potential phospho-switches signaling changes in phosphorus nutrition. Our study illuminates several new aspects of the phosphate starvation response and identifies important targets for further investigation and potential crop improvement.
PXD018784	33185454	Smelling the Dark Proteome: Functional Characterization of PITH Domain-Containing Protein 1 (C1orf128) in Olfactory Metabolism. 	Characterization of PITH domain-containing protein 1 (C1orf128) functionality in olfactory metabolism	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), HPP, Human Proteome Project, PITHD1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), TIMStof, TMT	The Human Proteome Project (HPP) consortium aims to functionally characterize the dark proteome. On the basis of the relevance of olfaction in early neurodegeneration, we have analyzed the dark proteome using data mining in public resources and omics data sets derived from the human olfactory system. Multiple dark proteins localize at synaptic terminals and may be involved in amyloidopathies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have characterized the dark PITH domain-containing protein 1 (PITHD1) in olfactory metabolism using bioinformatics, proteomics, in vitro and in vivo studies, and neuropathology. PITHD1(-/-) mice exhibit olfactory bulb (OB) proteome changes related to synaptic transmission, cognition, and memory. OB PITHD1 expression increases with age in wild-type (WT) mice and decreases in Tg2576 AD mice at late stages. The analysis across 6 neurological disorders reveals that olfactory tract (OT) PITHD1 is specifically upregulated in human AD. Stimulation of olfactory neuroepithelial (ON) cells with PITHD1 alters the ON phosphoproteome, modifies the proliferation rate, and induces a pro-inflammatory phenotype. This workflow applied by the Spanish C-HPP and Human Brain Proteome Project (HBPP) teams across the ON-OB-OT axis can be adapted as a guidance to decipher functional features of dark proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD018784 and PXD021634.
PXD020589	33186521	An HPF1/PARP1-Based Chemical Biology Strategy for Exploring ADP-Ribosylation. 	An HPF1/PARP1-based chemical biology strategy for exploring ADP-ribosylation	ADP-ribosylation, Fusion, LC-MS, PARP1	Strategies for installing authentic ADP-ribosylation (ADPr) at desired positions are fundamental for creating the tools needed to explore this elusive post-translational modification (PTM) in essential cellular processes. Here, we describe a phospho-guided chemoenzymatic approach based on the Ser-ADPr writer complex for rapid, scalable preparation of a panel of pure, precisely modified peptides. Integrating this methodology with phage display technology, we have developed site-specific as well as broad-specificity antibodies to mono-ADPr. These recombinant antibodies have been selected and characterized using multiple ADP-ribosylated peptides and tested by immunoblotting and immunofluorescence for their ability to detect physiological ADPr events. Mono-ADPr proteomics and poly-to-mono comparisons at the modification site level have revealed the prevalence of mono-ADPr upon DNA damage and illustrated its dependence on PARG and ARH3. These and future tools created on our versatile chemical biology-recombinant antibody platform have broad potential to elucidate ADPr signaling pathways in health and disease.
PXD022223	33187273	Mapping the Inorganic and Proteomic Differences among Different Types of Human Teeth: A Preliminary Compositional Insight. 	Proteome analysis of Different types of Human teeth	Protein protein interactions, Teeth composition, Tooth proteome	In recent years, studies on mineralized tissues are becoming increasingly popular not only due to the diverse mechanophysical properties of such materials but also because of the growing need to understand the intricate mechanism involved in their assembly and formation. The biochemical mechanism that results in the formation of such hierarchical structures through a well-coordinated accumulation of inorganic and organic components is termed biomineralization. Some prime examples of such tissues in the human body are teeth and bones. Our current study is an attempt to dissect the compositional details of the inorganic and organic components in four major types of human teeth using mass spectrometry-based approaches. We quantified inorganic materials using inductively coupled plasma resonance mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Differential level of ten different elements, Iron (Fe), Cadmium (Cd), Potassium (K), Sulphur (S), Cobalt (Co), Magnesium (Mg), Manganese (Mn), Zinc (Zn), Aluminum (Al), and Copper (Cu) were quantified across different teeth types. The qualitative and quantitative details of their respective proteomic milieu revealed compositional differences. We found 152 proteins in total tooth protein extract. Differential abundance of proteins in different teeth types were also noted. Further, we were able to find out some significant protein-protein interaction (PPI) backbone through the STRING database. Since this is the first study analyzing the differential details of inorganic and organic counterparts within teeth, this report will pave new directions to the compositional understanding and development of novel in-vitro repair strategies for such biological materials.
PXD016640	33188197	A computational method for detection of ligand-binding proteins from dose range thermal proteome profiles. 	Robust ligand-protein interaction inference reveals off-targets of epigenetic drugs	TPP, epigenetic drugs	Detecting ligand-protein interactions in living cells is a fundamental challenge in molecular biology and drug research. Proteome-wide profiling of thermal stability as a function of ligand concentration promises to tackle this challenge. However, current data analysis strategies use preset thresholds that can lead to suboptimal sensitivity/specificity tradeoffs and limited comparability across datasets. Here, we present a method based on statistical hypothesis testing on curves, which provides control of the false discovery rate. We apply it to several datasets probing epigenetic drugs and a metabolite. This leads us to detect off-target drug engagement, including the finding that the HDAC8 inhibitor PCI-34051 and its analog BRD-3811 bind to and inhibit leucine aminopeptidase 3. An implementation is available as an R package from Bioconductor ( https://bioconductor.org/packages/TPP2D ). We hope that our method will facilitate prioritizing targets from thermal profiling experiments.
PXD015757	33188211	Microbiota-directed fibre activates both targeted and secondary metabolic shifts in the distal gut. 	Engineered fibre enables targeted activation of butyrate-producing microbiota in the distal gut	Metaproteomics, porcine colon microbiome	Beneficial modulation of the gut microbiome has high-impact implications not only in humans, but also in livestock that sustain our current societal needs. In this context, we have tailored an acetylated galactoglucomannan (AcGGM) fibre to match unique enzymatic capabilities of Roseburia and Faecalibacterium species, both renowned butyrate-producing gut commensals. Here, we test the accuracy of AcGGM within the complex endogenous gut microbiome of pigs, wherein we resolve 355 metagenome-assembled genomes together with quantitative metaproteomes. In AcGGM-fed pigs, both target populations differentially express AcGGM-specific polysaccharide utilization loci, including novel, mannan-specific esterases that are critical to its deconstruction. However, AcGGM-inclusion also manifests a "butterfly effect", whereby numerous metabolic changes and interdependent cross-feeding pathways occur in neighboring non-mannanolytic populations that produce short-chain fatty acids. Our findings show how intricate structural features and acetylation patterns of dietary fibre can be customized to specific bacterial populations, with potential to create greater modulatory effects at large.
PXD020482	33188775	Tau PTM Profiles Identify Patient Heterogeneity and Stages of Alzheimer's Disease. 	Quantitative PTM Maps of Human Pathologic Tau Identify Patient Heterogeneity and Define Critical Steps in Alzheimer's Disease Progression - MC1-isolated Tau	Alzheimers disease, Human Tau, LFQ, Post-translational modification, Protein aggregation, Proteopathy, SRM, clinical progression	To elucidate the role of Tau isoforms and post-translational modification (PTM) stoichiometry in Alzheimer's disease (AD), we generated a high-resolution quantitative proteomics map of 95 PTMs on multiple isoforms of Tau isolated from postmortem human tissue from 49 AD and 42 control subjects. Although Tau PTM maps reveal heterogeneity across subjects, a subset of PTMs display high occupancy and frequency for AD, suggesting importance in disease. Unsupervised analyses indicate that PTMs occur in an ordered manner, leading to Tau aggregation. The processive addition and minimal set of PTMs associated with seeding activity was further defined by analysis of size-fractionated Tau. To summarize, features in the Tau protein critical for disease intervention at different stages of disease are identified, including enrichment of 0N and 4R isoforms, underrepresentation of the C terminus, an increase in negative charge in the proline-rich region (PRR), and a decrease in positive charge in the microtubule binding domain (MBD).
PXD019311	33190505	Improved Monoisotopic Mass Estimation for Deeper Proteome Coverage. 	Improved Monoisotopic Mass Estimation for Deeper Proteome Coverage	APD, FAIMS, Monoisotopic peak, TMT, bottom-up proteomics, multiplex proteomics	Accurate assignment of monoisotopic peaks is essential for the identification of peptides in bottom-up proteomics. Misassignment or inaccurate attribution of peptidic ions leads to lower sensitivity and fewer total peptide identifications. In the present work, we present a performant, open-source, cross-platform algorithm, Monocle, for the rapid reassignment of instrument-assigned precursor peaks to monoisotopic peptide assignments. We demonstrate that the present algorithm can be integrated into many common proteomic pipelines and provides rapid conversion from multiple data source types. Finally, we show that our monoisotopic peak assignment results in up to a twofold increase in total peptide identifications compared to analyses lacking monoisotopic correction and a 44% improvement over previous monoisotopic peak correction algorithms.
PXD019825	33193163	The Impacts of Sortase A and the 4'-Phosphopantetheinyl Transferase Homolog Sfp on Streptococcus mutans Extracellular Membrane Vesicle Biogenesis. 	Biophysical, proteomic, and lipidomic characterization of Streptococcus mutans extracellular membrane vesicles from wild-type, srtA, and sfp strains provides novel information regarding vesiculogenesis and its function	Streptococcus mutans, Vesicles, lipidome, membrane	Extracellular membrane vesicles (EMVs) are produced by many Gram-positive organisms, but information regarding vesiculogenesis is incomplete. We used single gene deletions to evaluate the impacts on Streptococcus mutans EMV biogenesis of Sortase A (SrtA), which affects S. mutans EMV composition, and Sfp, a 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase that affects Bacillus subtilis EMV stability. DeltasrtA EMVs were notably larger than Deltasfp and wild-type (WT) EMVs. EMV proteins identified from all three strains are known to be involved in cell wall biogenesis and cell architecture, bacterial adhesion, biofilm cell density and matrix development, and microbial competition. Notably, the AtlA autolysin was not processed to its mature active form in the DeltasrtA mutant. Proteomic and lipidomic analyses of all three strains revealed multiple dissimilarities between vesicular and corresponding cytoplasmic membranes (CMs). A higher proportion of EMV proteins are predicted substrates of the general secretion pathway (GSP). Accordingly, the GSP component SecA was identified as a prominent EMV-associated protein. In contrast, CMs contained more multi-pass transmembrane (TM) protein substrates of co-translational transport machineries than EMVs. EMVs from the WT, but not the mutant strains, were enriched in cardiolipin compared to CMs, and all EMVs were over-represented in polyketide flavonoids. EMVs and CMs were rich in long-chain saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated fatty acids, except for Deltasfp EMVs that contained exclusively polyunsaturated fatty acids. Lipoproteins were less prevalent in EMVs of all three strains compared to their CMs. This study provides insight into biophysical characteristics of S. mutans EMVs and indicates discrete partitioning of protein and lipid components between EMVs and corresponding CMs of WT, DeltasrtA, and Deltasfp strains.
PXD021299	33193206	The Temperature-Regulation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa cmaX-cfrX-cmpX Operon Reveals an Intriguing Molecular Network Involving the Sigma Factors AlgU and SigX. 	The temperature-regulation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa cmaX-cfrX-cmpX operon reveals an intriguing molecular network involving the sigma factors AlgU and SigX	2D-electrophoresis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, cold shock	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a highly adaptable Gram-negative opportunistic pathogen, notably due to its large number of transcription regulators. The extracytoplasmic sigma factor (ECFsigma) AlgU, responsible for alginate biosynthesis, is also involved in responses to cell wall stress and heat shock via the RpoH alternative sigma factor. The SigX ECFsigma emerged as a major regulator involved in the envelope stress response via membrane remodeling, virulence and biofilm formation. However, their functional interactions to coordinate the envelope homeostasis in response to environmental variations remain to be determined. The regulation of the putative cmaX-cfrX-cmpX operon located directly upstream sigX was investigated by applying sudden temperature shifts from 37degreesC. We identified a SigX- and an AlgU- dependent promoter region upstream of cfrX and cmaX, respectively. We show that cmaX expression is increased upon heat shock through an AlgU-dependent but RpoH independent mechanism. In addition, the ECFsigma SigX is activated in response to valinomycin, an agent altering the membrane structure, and up-regulates cfrX-cmpX transcription in response to cold shock. Altogether, these data provide new insights into the regulation exerted by SigX and networks that are involved in maintaining envelope homeostasis.
PXD018853	33194791	Proteomic Analysis of Exosome-Like Vesicles Isolated From Saliva of the Tick Haemaphysalis longicornis. 	Proteomic analysis of exosome-like vesicles isolated from saliva of the tick Haemaphysalis longicornis	Exosomes, Extracellular vesicles, Haemaphysalis longicornis, Saliva	Extracellular vesicles (EVs), are considered as vehicles of cellular communication. Parasites usually release EVs in their excretory-secretory products to modulate host environment. However, little is known about the secretion of EVs by ticks. In this study, we show for the first time that the tick Haemaphysalis longicornis secretes EVs in saliva that resembles exosomes. EVs were purified from pilocarpine induced saliva of partially engorged H. longicornis ticks. Electron microscopy analysis revealed the presence of exosome-like vesicles with a size of 100 nm. Proteomic analysis by LC-MS/MS identified a total of 356 proteins in tick-derived EVs. Proteome data of tick-derived EVs was validated by Western blot analysis. Immunodetection of Hsp70 and GAPDH proteins indicated that the proteomics data of tick-derived EVs were highly reliable. Bioinformatics analysis (Gene Ontology) indicated association of certain biological and molecular functions with proteins which may be helpful during tick development. Likewise, KEGG database revealed involvement of vesicular proteins in proton transport, detoxification, ECM-receptor interaction, ribosome, RNA transport, ABC transporters, and oxidative phosphorylation. The results of this study provide evidence that EVs are being secreted in tick saliva and suggest that tick saliva-derived EVs could play important roles in host-parasite relationships. Moreover, EVs could be a useful tool in development of vaccines or therapeutics against ticks.
PXD016073	33197421	Exploration of identifying novel serum biomarkers for malignant mesothelioma using iTRAQ combined with 2D-LC-MS/MS. 	Identification of novel serum biomarkers for malignant mesothelioma using iTRAQ combined with 2D-LC-MS/MS	Serum, biomarker, iTRAQ, malignant mesothelioma	Malignant mesothelioma (MM) is an aggressive cancer linked to asbestos exposure. Its poor prognosis makes early diagnosis extremely important, which would provide an opportunity for early treatment and potentially changing outcomes. This study aimed to explore the underlying mechanisms of MM and discover novel noninvasive biomarkers for the diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma. Using Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) combined with two-dimensional liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (2D LC-MS/MS), a total of 145 differentially expressed serum proteins were identified between MM patients and healthy controls. The identified proteins were further analyzed by bioinformatics, out of which three candidate biomarkers (Filamin A (FLNA), Fibulin 1 (FBLN1) and Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1)) were validated in large cohorts of patients with asbestos-related diseases including MM patients by ELISA assay. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis showed that serum FLNA, FBLN1 and TSP-1 had high diagnostic values in distinguishing MM patients from healthy controls, individuals with asbestos exposure (AE), and patients with pleural plaques (PP) or asbestosis. Meanwhile, serum FBLN1 and TSP-1 possessed good diagnostic values in distinguishing asbestosis patients from healthy controls and individuals with AE. The combination of FLNA, FBLN1, and TSP-1 proteins had higher sensitivity and specificity in discriminating patients with MM, PP and asbestosis. Our findings indicated that analysis of serum proteome using iTRAQ is a feasible strategy for biomarker discovery, and serum FLNA, FBLN1 and TSP-1 may be promising candidates for diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma and screening of at-risk individuals.
PXD016634	33197513	ADAMTSL5 is an epigenetically activated gene underlying tumorigenesis and drug resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	ADAMTSL5 is an epigenetically activated oncogene conferring tumorigenic properties in hepatocellular carcinoma	DAMTSL5, Extracellular Matrix, Proteoglycans ., Receptor Tyrosine Kinase, hepatocellular carcinoma, oncogene, secretome	BACKGROUND & AIMS: The tumour microenvironment shapes tumour growth through cellular communications that include both direct interactions and secreted factors. The aim of this study was to characterize the impact of the secreted glycoprotein ADAMTSL5, whose role in cancer has not been previously investigated, on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). METHODS: ADAMTSL5 methylation status was evaluated through bisulfite sequencing, and publicly available data analysis. ADAMTSL5 RNA and protein expression were assessed in mouse models and HCC patient samples and compared to data from published datasets. Functional studies, including association of ADAMTSL5 depletion with responsiveness to clinically relevant drugs, were performed in cellular and in vivo models. Molecular alterations associated with ADAMTSL5 targeting were determined using proteomics, biochemistry, and reverse-transcription quantitative PCR. RESULTS: Methylome analysis revealed hypermethylated gene body CpG islands at the ADAMTSL5 locus in both mouse and human HCC, correlating with higher ADAMTSL5 expression. ADAMTSL5 targeting interfered with tumorigenic properties of HCC cells in vitro and in vivo, whereas ADAMTSL5 overexpression conferred tumorigenicity to pre-tumoural hepatocytes sensitized to transformation by a modest level of MET receptor expression. Mechanistically, ADAMTSL5 abrogation led to a reduction of several oncogenic inputs relevant to HCC, including reduced expression and/or phosphorylation levels of receptor tyrosine kinases MET, EGFR, PDGFRbeta, IGF1Rbeta, or FGFR4. This phenotype was associated with significantly increased sensitivity of HCC cells to clinically relevant drugs, namely sorafenib, lenvatinib, and regorafenib. Moreover, ADAMTSL5 depletion drastically increased expression of AXL, accompanied by a sensitization to bemcentinib. CONCLUSIONS: Our results point to a role for ADAMTSL5 in maintaining the function of key oncogenic signalling pathways, suggesting that it may act as a master regulator of tumorigenicity and drug resistance in HCC. LAY SUMMARY: The environment of cancer cells has profound effects on establishment, progression, and response of a tumour to treatment. Herein, we show that ADAMTSL5, a protein secreted by liver cancer cells and overlooked in cancer so far, is increased in this tumour type, is necessary for tumour formation and supports drug resistance. Adamtsl5 removal conferred sensitivity of liver cancer cells to drugs used in current treatment. This suggests ADAMTSL5 as a potential marker in liver cancer as well as a possible drug target.
PXD019661	33198343	Exploring the Role of a Novel Peptide from Allomyrina dichotoma Larvae in Ameliorating Lipid Metabolism in Obesity. 	New insights into the role of peptide from Allomyrina dichotoma larvae in ameliorating lipid metabolism in vitro and in vivo	Allomyrina dichotoma larva, insulin resistance, lipid metabolism, peptides	The aim of this study was to identify an anti-obesity peptide from Allomyrina dichotoma and investigate the lipid metabolic mechanism. Enzymatically hydrolyzed A. dichotoma larvae were further separated using tangential flow filtration and consecutive chromatographic processes. Finally, an anti-obesity peptide that showed the highest inhibitory effect on lipid accumulation was obtained, and the sequence was Glu-Ile-Ala-Gln-Asp-Phe-Lys-Thr-Asp-Leu (EIA10). EIA10 decreased lipid aggregation in vitro and significantly reduced the accumulation of body weight gain, liver weight, and adipose tissue weight in high-fat-fed mice. Compared with the control group, the levels of total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL), insulin, and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in the high-fat diet (HFD) group increased significantly, and the content of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) in the serum decreased significantly. On the contrary, the levels of TC, TG, and insulin in the EIA10 group decreased significantly, and the HDL content increased significantly compared with the HFD group. Additionally, EIA10 dramatically decreased mRNA and protein levels of transcription factors involved in lipid adipogenesis. Taken together, our results suggest that EIA10 could be a promising agent for the treatment and prevention of obesity.
PXD021743	33199913	Dynamics of an LPS translocon induced by substrate and an antimicrobial peptide. 	Dynamics of an LPS translocon induced by substrate and an antimicrobial peptide	HDX-MS, LPS, LptDE, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), hydrogen-deuterium exchange, thanatin	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) transport to the outer membrane (OM) is a crucial step in the biogenesis of microbial surface defenses. Although many features of the translocation mechanism have been elucidated, molecular details of LPS insertion via the LPS transport (Lpt) OM protein LptDE remain elusive. Here, we integrate native MS with hydrogen-deuterium exchange MS and molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the influence of substrate and peptide binding on the conformational dynamics of LptDE. Our data reveal that LPS induces opening of the LptD beta-taco domain, coupled with conformational changes on beta-strands adjacent to the putative lateral exit gate. Conversely, an antimicrobial peptide, thanatin, stabilizes the beta-taco, thereby preventing LPS transport. Our results illustrate that LPS insertion into the OM relies on concerted opening movements of both the beta-barrel and beta-taco domains of LptD, and suggest a means for developing antimicrobial therapeutics targeting this essential process in Gram-negative ESKAPE pathogens.
PXD018826	33200579	Hosting certain facultative symbionts modulates the phenoloxidase activity and immune response of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum. 	Hemolymph proteome of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum	Acyrthosiphon pisum, Facultative symbionts, Hamiltonella defensa, Hemolymph, Pea aphid, Phenoloxidases, Regiella insecticola, Serratia symbiotica, stressors	The pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum hosts different facultative symbionts (FS) which provide it with various benefits, such as tolerance to heat or protection against natural enemies (e.g., fungi, parasitoid wasps). Here, we investigated whether and how the presence of certain FS could affect phenoloxidase (PO) activity, a key component of insect innate immunity, under normal and stressed conditions. For this, we used clones of A. pisum of different genetic backgrounds (LL01, YR2 and T3-8V1) lacking FS or harboring one or two (Regiella insecticola, Hamiltonella defensa, Serratia symbiotica + Rickettsiella viridis). Gene expression and proteomics analyses of the aphid hemolymph indicated that the two A. pisum POs, PPO1 and PPO2, are expressed and translated into proteins. The level of PPO genes expression as well as the amount of PPO proteins and phenoloxidase activity in the hemolymph depended on both the aphid genotype and FS species. In particular, H. defensa and R. insecticola, but not S. symbiotica + R. viridis, caused a sharp decrease in PO activity by interfering with both transcription and translation. The microinjection of different types of stressors (yeast, Escherichia coli, latex beads) in the YR2 lines hosting different symbionts affected the survival rate of aphids and, in most cases, also decreased the expression of PPO genes after 24 h. The amount and activity of PPO proteins varied according to the type of FS and stressor, without clear corresponding changes in gene expression. These data demonstrate that the presence of certain FS influences an important component of pea aphid immunity.
PXD021678	33202249	Gene- and Species-Specific Hox mRNA Translation by Ribosome Expansion Segments. 	Gene- and species-specific Hox mRNA translation by ribosome expansion segments	4xS1m aptamer, 6plex TMT, Hox cluster, Hoxa9, LC MSMS, RNA structure, RNA-protein interaction, affinity purification, internal initiation, internal ribosome entry site, mRNA translation, mouse FVB emb, ribosomal RNA, ribosome, stem-loop	Ribosomes have been suggested to directly control gene regulation, but regulatory roles for ribosomal RNA (rRNA) remain largely unexplored. Expansion segments (ESs) consist of multitudes of tentacle-like rRNA structures extending from the core ribosome in eukaryotes. ESs are remarkably variable in sequence and size across eukaryotic evolution with largely unknown functions. In characterizing ribosome binding to a regulatory element within a Homeobox (Hox) 5' UTR, we identify a modular stem-loop within this element that binds to a single ES, ES9S. Engineering chimeric, "humanized" yeast ribosomes for ES9S reveals that an evolutionary change in the sequence of ES9S endows species-specific binding of Hoxa9 mRNA to the ribosome. Genome editing to site-specifically disrupt the Hoxa9-ES9S interaction demonstrates the functional importance for such selective mRNA-rRNA binding in translation control. Together, these studies unravel unexpected gene regulation directly mediated by rRNA and how ribosome evolution drives translation of critical developmental regulators.
PXD007830	33202254	LC-MS analysis reveals biological and metabolic processes essential for Candida albicans biofilm growth. 	Candida albicans proteomics_Biofilm without treatment	Aureobasidin, Candida albicans, biofilm, planktonic culture	Candidiasis is the most common fungal infection associated with high morbidity and mortality among immunocompromised patients. The ability to form biofilm is essential for Candida albicans pathogenesis and drug resistance. In this study, the planktonic cell and biofilm proteomes of C. albicans SC5314 strain analyzed using Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS) were compared. In total, 280 and 449 proteins are annotated from the planktonic cell and biofilm proteomes, respectively. The biofilm proteome demonstrated significantly higher proportion of proteins associated with the endomembrane system, mitochondrion and cytoplasm than planktonic proteome. Among proteins detected, 143 and 207 biological processes are annotated, of which, 38 and 102 are specific to the planktonic cell and biofilm proteomes, respectively, while 105 are common biological processes. The specific biological processes of C. albicans planktonic cell proteome are associated with cell polarity, energy metabolism and nucleotide (purine) metabolism, oxido-reduction coenzyme metabolic process, monosaccharide and amino acid (methionine) biosynthesis, regulation of anatomical structure morphogenesis and cell cycling, and single organism reproduction. Meanwhile, regulation of cellular macromolecule biosynthesis and metabolism, transcription and gene expression are major biological processes specifically associated with C. albicans biofilm proteome. Biosynthesis of leucine, isoleucine, and thiocysteine are highlighted as planktonic-related pathways, whereas folate metabolism, fatty acid metabolism and biosynthesis of amino acids (lysine, serine and glycine) are highlighted as biofilm-related pathways. In summary, LC-MS-based proteomic analysis reveals different adaptative strategies of C. albicans via specific biological and metabolic processes for planktonic cell and biofilm lifestyles. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD007830 (for biofilm proteome) and PXD007831 (for planktonic cell proteome).
PXD020522	33203833	Immune suppression in the early stage of COVID-19 disease. 	Proteomic analysis of COVID-19 infection at early stage	Urine samples	The outbreak of COVID-19 has become a worldwide pandemic. The pathogenesis of this infectious disease and how it differs from other drivers of pneumonia is unclear. Here we analyze urine samples from COVID-19 infection cases, healthy donors and non-COVID-19 pneumonia cases using quantitative proteomics. The molecular changes suggest that immunosuppression and tight junction impairment occur in the early stage of COVID-19 infection. Further subgrouping of COVID-19 patients into moderate and severe types shows that an activated immune response emerges in severely affected patients. We propose a two-stage mechanism of pathogenesis for this unusual viral infection. Our data advance our understanding of the clinical features of COVID-19 infections and provide a resource for future mechanistic and therapeutics studies.
PXD022119	33203861	Structure of the human sodium leak channel NALCN in complex with FAM155A. 	NALCN crosslinking experiments by BS3 crosslinker	NALCN, crosslinking	NALCN, a sodium leak channel expressed mainly in the central nervous system, is responsible for the resting Na(+) permeability that controls neuronal excitability. Dysfunctions of the NALCN channelosome, NALCN with several auxiliary subunits, are associated with a variety of human diseases. Here, we report the cryo-EM structure of human NALCN in complex with FAM155A at an overall resolution of 3.1 angstroms. FAM155A forms extensive interactions with the extracellular loops of NALCN that may help stabilize NALCN in the membrane. A Na(+) ion-binding site, reminiscent of a Ca(2+) binding site in Cav channels, is identified in the unique EEKE selectivity filter. Despite its 'leaky' nature, the channel is closed and the intracellular gate is sealed by S6I, II-III linker and III-IV linker. Our study establishes the molecular basis of Na(+) permeation and voltage sensitivity, and provides important clues to the mechanistic understanding of NALCN regulation and NALCN channelosome-related diseases.
PXD014991	33204009	Multiplexed quantitative proteomics provides mechanistic cues for malaria severity and complexity. 	Multiplexed Quantitative Proteomics Provides Mechanistic Cues for Malaria Severity and Complexity	Infectious Disease, Multiplexed Quantitative Proteomics, Severe Malaria	Management of severe malaria remains a critical global challenge. In this study, using a multiplexed quantitative proteomics pipeline we systematically investigated the plasma proteome alterations in non-severe and severe malaria patients. We identified a few parasite proteins in severe malaria patients, which could be promising from a diagnostic perspective. Further, from host proteome analysis we observed substantial modulations in many crucial physiological pathways, including lipid metabolism, cytokine signaling, complement, and coagulation cascades in severe malaria. We propose that severe manifestations of malaria are possibly underpinned by modulations of the host physiology and defense machinery, which is evidently reflected in the plasma proteome alterations. Importantly, we identified multiple blood markers that can effectively define different complications of severe falciparum malaria, including cerebral syndromes and severe anemia. The ability of our identified blood markers to distinguish different severe complications of malaria may aid in developing new clinical tests for monitoring malaria severity.
PXD018730	33204393	Natural Exogenous Antioxidant Defense against Changes in Human Skin Fibroblast Proteome Disturbed by UVA Radiation. 	Synergistic effects between rutin and ascorbic acid in the protection of the proteome of 3D-cultured human skin fibroblasts from UVA radiation	3D cell culture, UVA radiation, ascorbic acid, rutin, skin fibroblasts	Daily exposure of the skin to UVA radiation causes oxidative modifications to cellular components and biomolecules. These include proteins involved in the metabolism and cytoprotection of fibroblasts, and their modification can contribute to the disruption of cell function and the development of skin disorders. Therefore, there remains a need for highly active cytoprotective compounds with antioxidant properties. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of ascorbic acid on the activity of rutin against UVA-induced changes in the proteome of human fibroblasts. All analyses were carried out on fibroblasts cultured in a three-dimensional system exposed to UVA radiation and incubated with rutin and ascorbic acid. Their proteomic profile was analyzed using nano-HPLC, which revealed 150 proteins whose expression was significantly altered between treatment conditions. UVA radiation led to changes in the expression of 82 proteins. However, some of these changes were mitigated by rutin and ascorbic acid separately (23 and 25 proteins, respectively) and rutin and ascorbic acid together (23 proteins). UVA radiation has led to the upregulation of proteins involved in gene expression, catalytic processes and antioxidant pathways, and downregulation of proteins with binding activity. Nevertheless, rutin and ascorbic acid used separately or together have countered these changes to varying degrees. Moreover, rutin and ascorbic acid stimulated fibroblasts irradiated by UVA to increase the expression of the signalling molecules responsible for the opening of the transmembrane channels. In the context of the results obtained, the observed cytoprotective effect of the cooperation of rutin and ascorbic acid results not only from the overlapping properties of the compounds. The effect of rutin alone is probably inhibited by its limited bioavailability. Therefore, its interaction with ascorbic acid increases membrane penetration and improves the cytoprotective effect on skin fibroblasts.
PXD015145	33204424	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles reveals an immunogenic cargo in rheumatoid arthritis synovial fluid. 	PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS OF EXTRACELLULAR VESICLES FROM RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS SYNOVIAL FLUID	Extracellular vesicles, label-free MS, rheumatoid arthritis	OBJECTIVES: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovial fluid (SF) have been reported to stimulate the release of pro-inflammatory mediators from recipient cells. We recently developed a size exclusion chromatography (SEC)-based method for EV isolation capable of high-quality enrichments from human SF. Here, we employed this method to accurately characterise the SF EV proteome and investigate potential contributions to inflammatory pathways in RA. METHODS: Using our SEC-based approach, SF EVs were purified from the joints of RA patients classified as having high-level (n = 7) or low-level inflammation (n = 5), and from osteoarthritis (OA) patients (n = 5). Protein profiles were characterised by mass spectrometry. Potential contributions of EV proteins to pathological pathways and differences in protein expression between disease groups were investigated. RESULTS: Synovial fluid EVs were present at higher concentrations in RA joints with high-level inflammation (P-value = 0.004) but were smaller in diameter (P-value = 0.03) than in low-level inflammation. In total, 1058 SF EV proteins were identified by mass spectrometry analysis. Neutrophil and fibroblast markers were overrepresented in all disease groups. Numerous proteins with potential to modulate inflammatory and immunological processes were detected, including nine citrullinated peptides. Forty-five and 135 EV-associated proteins were significantly elevated in RA joints with high-level inflammation than in RA joints with low-level inflammation and OA joints, respectively. Gene ontology analysis revealed significant enrichment for proteins associated with 'neutrophil degranulation' within SF EVs from RA joints with high-level inflammation. CONCLUSION: Our results provide new information about SF EVs and insight into how EVs might contribute to the perpetuation of RA.
PXD017941	33205023	Glycan Positioning Impacts HIV-1 Env Glycan-Shield Density, Function, and Recognition by Antibodies. 	Impact of glycan positioning on HIV-1 Env glycan shield density, function, and antibody recognition	Env, HIV, N262, glycosylation, gp120	HIV-1 envelope (Env) N-glycosylation impact virus-cell entry and immune evasion. How each glycan interacts to shape the Env-protein-sugar complex and affects Env function is not well understood. Here, analysis of two Env variants from the same donor, with differing functional characteristics and N-glycosylation-site composition, revealed that changes to key N-glycosylation sites affected the Env structure at distant locations and had a ripple effect on Env-wide glycan processing, virus infectivity, antibody recognition, and virus neutralization. Specifically, the N262 glycan, although not in the CD4-binding site, modulated Env binding to the CD4 receptor, affected Env recognition by several glycan-dependent neutralizing antibodies, and altered site-specific glycosylation heterogeneity, with, for example, N448 displaying limited glycan processing. Molecular-dynamic simulations visualized differences in glycan density and how specific oligosaccharide positions can move to compensate for a glycan loss. This study demonstrates how changes in individual glycans can alter molecular dynamics, processing, and function of the Env-glycan shield.
PXD019393	33206237	Analysis of complement deposition and processing on Chlamydia trachomatis. 	Complement deposition on Chlamydia trachomatis	C3, Chlamydia trachomatis, complement, plasma	Chlamydia trachomatis (C. trachomatis) is the leading cause of sexually transmitted bacterial infections worldwide, with over 120 million annual cases. C. trachomatis infections are associated with severe reproductive complications in women such as extrauterine pregnancy and tubal infertility. The infections are often long lasting, associated with immunopathology, and fail to elicit protective immunity which makes recurrent infections common. The immunological mechanisms involved in C. trachomatis infections are only partially understood. Murine infection models suggest that the complement system plays a significant role in both protective immunity and immunopathology during primary Chlamydia infections. However, only limited structural and mechanistic evidence exists on complement-mediated immunity against C. trachomatis. To expand our current knowledge on this topic, we analyzed global complement deposition on C. trachomatis using comprehensive in-depth mass spectrometry-based proteomics. We show that factor B, properdin, and C4b bind to C. trachomatis demonstrating that C. trachomatis-induced complement activation proceeds through at least two activation pathways. Complement activation leads to cleavage and deposition of C3 and C5 activation products, causing initiation of the terminal complement pathway and deposition of C5b, C6, C7, C8, C9 on C. trachomatis. Interestingly, using immunoelectron microscopy, we show that C5b-9 deposition occurred sporadically and only in rare cases formed complete lytic terminal complexes, possibly caused by the presence of the negative regulators vitronectin and clusterin. Finally, cleavage analysis of C3 demonstrated that deposited C3b is degraded to the opsonins iC3b and C3dg and that this complement opsonization facilitates C. trachomatis binding to human B-cells.
PXD019083	33207182	A Selective Autophagy Pathway for Phase-Separated Endocytic Protein Deposits. 	A selective autophagy pathway for endocytic protein condensates	Atg8, Ede1, liquid-liquid phase separation, selective autophagy	Autophagy eliminates cytoplasmic content selected by autophagy receptors, which link cargo to the membrane-bound autophagosomal ubiquitin-like protein Atg8/LC3. Here, we report a selective autophagy pathway for protein condensates formed by endocytic proteins in yeast. In this pathway, the endocytic protein Ede1 functions as a selective autophagy receptor. Distinct domains within Ede1 bind Atg8 and mediate phase separation into condensates. Both properties are necessary for an Ede1-dependent autophagy pathway for endocytic proteins, which differs from regular endocytosis and does not involve other known selective autophagy receptors but requires the core autophagy machinery. Cryo-electron tomography of Ede1-containing condensates, at the plasma membrane and in autophagic bodies, shows a phase-separated compartment at the beginning and end of the Ede1-mediated selective autophagy route. Our data suggest a model for autophagic degradation of macromolecular protein complexes by the action of intrinsic autophagy receptors.
PXD012474	33207933	Alternative Splicing of FN (Fibronectin) Regulates the Composition of the Arterial Wall Under Low Flow. 	Alternative Splicing of Fibronectin Regulates Composition of the Inflamed Arterial Wall	Fibronectin	OBJECTIVE: Exposure of the arterial endothelium to low and disturbed flow is a risk factor for the erosion and rupture of atherosclerotic plaques and aneurysms. Circulating and locally produced proteins are known to contribute to an altered composition of the extracellular matrix at the site of lesions, and to contribute to inflammatory processes within the lesions. We have previously shown that alternative splicing of FN (fibronectin) protects against flow-induced hemorrhage. However, the impact of alternative splicing of FN on extracellular matrix composition remains unknown. Approach and Results: Here, we perform quantitative proteomic analysis of the matrisome of murine carotid arteries in mice deficient in the production of FN splice isoforms containing alternative exons EIIIA and EIIIB (FN-EIIIAB null) after exposure to low and disturbed flow in vivo. We also examine serum-derived and endothelial-cell contributions to the matrisome in a simplified in vitro system. We found flow-induced differences in the carotid artery matrisome that were impaired in FN-EIIIAB null mice. One of the most interesting differences was reduced recruitment of FBLN1 (fibulin-1), abundant in blood and not locally produced in the intima. This defect was validated in our in vitro assay, where FBLN1 recruitment from serum was impaired by the absence of these alternatively spliced segments. CONCLUSIONS: Our results reveal the extent of the dynamic alterations in the matrisome in the acute response to low and disturbed flow and show how changes in the splicing of FN, a common response in vascular inflammation and remodeling, can affect matrix composition.
PXD021039	33208464	The ATPase ATP6V1A facilitates rabies virus replication by promoting virion uncoating and interacting with the viral matrix protein. 	Mass spectrometry runs and analysis of host proteins co-immunoprecipitated with RABV M protein	RABV, co-immunoprecipitation, host proteins, matrix protein	Rabies virus (RABV) matrix protein (M) plays crucial roles in viral transcription, replication, assembly, and budding; however, its function during the early stage of virus replication remains unknown. Here, we mapped the protein interactome between RABV M and human host factors using a proteomic approach, finding a link to the V-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit A (ATP6V1A), which is located in the endosomes where RABV first enters. By downregulating or upregulating ATP6V1A expression in HEK293T cells, we found that ATP6V1A facilitated RABV replication. We further found that ATP6V1A was involved in the dissociation of incoming viral M proteins during viral uncoating. Coimmunoprecipitation demonstrated that M interacted with the full length or middle domain of ATP6V1A, which was dependent on the lysine residue at position 256 and the glutamic acid residue at position 279. RABV growth and uncoating in ATP6V1A-depleted cells was restored by trans-complementation with the full length or interaction domain of ATP6V1A. Moreover, stably overexpressed ATP6V1A enhanced RABV growth in Vero cells, which are used for the production of rabies vaccine. Our findings identify a new partner for RABV M proteins and establish a new role of ATP6V1A by promoting virion uncoating during RABV replication.
PXD016799	33208761	PRMT1 inhibition induces differentiation of colon cancer cells. 	PRMT1 inhibition induces differentiation of colon cancer cells	MS023, PMRT1 inhibitors, colorectal cancer	Differentiation therapy has been recently revisited as a prospective approach in cancer therapy by targeting the aberrant growth, and repairing the differentiation and cell death programs of cancer cells. However, differentiation therapy of solid tumors is a challenging issue and progress in this field is limited. We performed High Throughput Screening (HTS) using a novel dual multiplex assay to discover compounds, which induce differentiation of human colon cancer cells. Here we show that the protein arginine methyl transferase (PRMT) type 1 inhibitor, MS023, is a potent inducer of colon cancer cell differentiation with a large therapeutic window. Differentiation changes in the highly aggressive human colon cancer cell line (HT-29) were proved by proteomic and genomic approaches. Growth of HT-29 xenograft in nude mice was significantly delayed upon MS023 treatment and immunohistochemistry of tumor indicated differentiation changes. These findings may lead to development of clinically effective anti-cancer drugs based on the mechanism of cancer cell differentiation.
PXD016185	33208943	Small-molecule-induced polymerization triggers degradation of BCL6. 	Small molecule-induced polymerization triggers degradation of BCL6	BCL6, BTB, DLBCL, SIAH1, molecular glue, polymerization, ubiquitin	Effective and sustained inhibition of non-enzymatic oncogenic driver proteins is a major pharmacological challenge. The clinical success of thalidomide analogues demonstrates the therapeutic efficacy of drug-induced degradation of transcription factors and other cancer targets(1-3), but a substantial subset of proteins are resistant to targeted degradation using existing approaches(4,5). Here we report an alternative mechanism of targeted protein degradation, in which a small molecule induces the highly specific, reversible polymerization of a target protein, followed by its sequestration into cellular foci and subsequent degradation. BI-3802 is a small molecule that binds to the Broad-complex, Tramtrack and Bric-a-brac (BTB) domain of the oncogenic transcription factor B cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) and leads to the proteasomal degradation of BCL6(6). We use cryo-electron microscopy to reveal how the solvent-exposed moiety of a BCL6-binding molecule contributes to a composite ligand-protein surface that engages BCL6 homodimers to form a supramolecular structure. Drug-induced formation of BCL6 filaments facilitates ubiquitination by the SIAH1 E3 ubiquitin ligase. Our findings demonstrate that a small molecule such as BI-3802 can induce polymerization coupled to highly specific protein degradation, which in the case of BCL6 leads to increased pharmacological activity compared to the effects induced by other BCL6 inhibitors. These findings open new avenues for the development of therapeutic agents and synthetic biology.
PXD018932	33210542	Global Inventory of ClpP- and ClpX-Regulated Proteins in Staphylococcus aureus. 	Whole proteome and Secretome analysis of  Staphylococcus aureus ClpXP mutant strains	Staphylococcus aureus, Whole proteome analysis	Staphylococcus aureus represents an opportunistic pathogen, which utilizes elaborate quorum sensing mechanisms to precisely control the expression and secretion of virulence factors. Previous studies indicated a role of the ClpXP proteolytic system in controlling pathogenesis. While detailed transcriptome data for S. aureus ClpP and ClpX knockout mutants is available, corresponding studies on the proteome and secretome level are largely lacking. To globally decipher the functional roles of ClpP and ClpX, we utilized S. aureus genomic deletion mutants of the corresponding genes for in-depth proteomic liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)/MS analysis. These studies were complemented by an inactive ClpP active-site mutant strain to monitor changes solely depending on the activity and not the presence of the protein. A comparison of these strains with the wildtype revealed, e.g., downregulation of virulence, purine/pyrimidine biosynthesis, iron uptake, and stress response. Correspondingly, the integration of metabolomics data showed a reduction in the subset of purine and pyrimidine metabolite levels. Interestingly, a comparison between the ClpP knockout and ClpP S98A active-site mutant strains revealed characteristic differences. These results are not only of fundamental importance to understand the cellular role of ClpXP but also have implications for the development of novel virulence inhibitor classes.
PXD019298	33212864	Proteomic Analysis of Porcine-Derived Collagen Membrane and Matrix. 	Proteomic analysis of collagen membrane and matrix	Collagen, bone regeneration, soft tissue augmentation	Collagen membranes and matrices being widely used in guided bone regeneration and soft tissue augmentation have characteristic properties based on their composition. The respective proteomic signatures have not been identified. Here, we performed a high-resolution shotgun proteomic analysis on two porcine collagen-based biomaterials designed for guided bone regeneration and soft tissue augmentation. Three lots each of a porcine-derived collagen membrane and a matrix derived from peritoneum and/or skin were digested and separated by nano-reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. The peptides were subjected to mass spectrometric detection and analysis. A total of 37 proteins identified by two peptides were present in all collagen membranes and matrices, with 11 and 16 proteins being exclusively present in the membrane and matrix, respectively. The common extracellular matrix proteins include fibrillar collagens (COL1A1, COL1A2, COL2A1, COL3A1, COL5A1, COL5A2, COL5A3, COL11A2), non-fibrillar collagens (COL4A2, COL6A1, COL6A2, COL6A3, COL7A1, COL16A1, COL22A1), and leucine-rich repeat proteoglycans (DCN, LUM, BGN, PRELP, OGN). The structural proteins vimentin, actin-based microfilaments (ACTB), annexins (ANXA1, ANXA5), tubulins (TUBA1B, TUBB), and histones (H2A, H2B, H4) were also identified. Examples of membrane-only proteins are COL12A1 and COL14A1, and, of matrix only proteins, elastin (ELN). The proteomic signature thus revealed the similarities between but also some individual proteins of collagen membrane and matrix.
PXD020634	33214187	Proteome Analysis Reveals a Significant Host-Specific Response in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae Endosymbiotic Cells. 	Host-dependent NCR profiles of Rhizobium leguminosarum bacteroids induced in pea and lentil plants.	NCR peptides, PEAKS, Rhizobium, legume, lentil, pea, symbiosis	The Rhizobium-legume symbiosis is a beneficial interaction in which the bacterium converts atmospheric nitrogen into ammonia and delivers it to the plant in exchange for carbon compounds. This symbiosis implies the adaptation of bacteria to live inside host plant cells. In this work, we apply RP-LC-MS/MS and isobaric tags as relative and absolute quantitation techniques to study the proteomic profile of endosymbiotic cells (bacteroids) induced by Rhizobium leguminosarum bv viciae strain UPM791 in legume nodules. Nitrogenase subunits, tricarboxylic acid cycle enzymes, and stress-response proteins are among the most abundant from over 1000 rhizobial proteins identified in pea (Pisum sativum) bacteroids. Comparative analysis of bacteroids induced in pea and in lentil (Lens culinaris) nodules revealed the existence of a significant host-specific differential response affecting dozens of bacterial proteins, including stress-related proteins, transcriptional regulators, and proteins involved in the carbon and nitrogen metabolisms. A mutant affected in one of these proteins, homologous to a GntR-like transcriptional regulator, showed a symbiotic performance significantly impaired in symbiosis with pea but not with lentil plants. Analysis of the proteomes of bacteroids isolated from both hosts also revealed the presence of different sets of plant-derived nodule-specific cysteine-rich peptides, indicating that the endosymbiotic bacteria find a host-specific cocktail of chemical stressors inside the nodule. By studying variations of the bacterial response to different plant cell environments, we will be able to identify specific limitations imposed by the host that might give us clues for the improvement of rhizobial performance.
PXD016713	33214551	Proteomic profiling and genome-wide mapping of O-GlcNAc chromatin-associated proteins reveal an O-GlcNAc-regulated genotoxic stress response. 	Chromatin bound O-GlcNAc proteins related to stress response and transcriptional regulation.	O-GlcNAc,metabolic labeling,proteomics	O-GlcNAc modification plays critical roles in regulating the stress response program and cellular homeostasis. However, systematic and multi-omics studies on the O-GlcNAc regulated mechanism have been limited. Here, comprehensive data are obtained by a chemical reporter-based method to survey O-GlcNAc function in human breast cancer cells stimulated with the genotoxic agent adriamycin. We identify 875 genotoxic stress-induced O-GlcNAc chromatin-associated proteins (OCPs), including 88 O-GlcNAc chromatin-associated transcription factors and cofactors (OCTFs), subsequently map their genomic loci, and construct a comprehensive transcriptional reprogramming network. Notably, genotoxicity-induced O-GlcNAc enhances the genome-wide interactions of OCPs with chromatin. The dynamic binding switch of hundreds of OCPs from enhancers to promoters is identified as a crucial feature in the specific transcriptional activation of genes involved in the adaptation of cancer cells to genotoxic stress. The OCTF nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-1 (NRF1) is found to be a key response regulator in O-GlcNAc-modulated cellular homeostasis. These results provide a valuable clue suggesting that OCPs act as stress sensors by regulating the expression of various genes to protect cancer cells from genotoxic stress.
PXD020885	33214620	Characterization of Plasmodium falciparum NEDD8 and identification of cullins as its substrates. 	Characterization of Plasmodium falciparum NEDD8	NEDD8, cullin, malaria, neddylation, ubiquitin, ubiquitin-like modifier	A variety of post-translational modifications of Plasmodium falciparum proteins, including phosphorylation and ubiquitination, are shown to have key regulatory roles during parasite development. NEDD8 is a ubiquitin-like modifier of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligases, which regulates diverse cellular processes. Although neddylation is conserved in eukaryotes, it is yet to be characterized in Plasmodium and related apicomplexan parasites. We characterized P. falciparum NEDD8 (PfNEDD8) and identified cullins as its physiological substrates. PfNEDD8 is a 76 amino acid residue protein without the C-terminal tail, indicating that it can be readily conjugated. The wild type and mutant (Gly75Ala/Gly76Ala) PfNEDD8 were expressed in P. falciparum. Western blot of wild type PfNEDD8-expressing parasites indicated multiple high molecular weight conjugates, which were absent in the parasites expressing the mutant, indicating conjugation of NEDD8 through Gly76. Immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry of wild type PfNEDD8-expressing parasites identified two putative cullins. Furthermore, we expressed PfNEDD8 in mutant S. cerevisiae strains that lacked endogenous NEDD8 (rub1Delta) or NEDD8 conjugating E2 enzyme (ubc12Delta). The PfNEDD8 immunoprecipitate also contained S. cerevisiae cullin cdc53, further substantiating cullins as physiological substrates of PfNEDD8. Our findings lay ground for investigation of specific roles and drug target potential of neddylation in malaria parasites.
PXD021643	33214631	Cadmium stress dictates central carbon flux and alters membrane composition in Streptococcus pneumoniae. 	Identifying the impact of cadmium stress on the pneumococcal metalloproteome	Streptococcus pneumoniae, cadmium, metal ion homeostasis, metalloproteomics, mismetallation	Metal ion homeostasis is essential for all forms of life. However, the breadth of intracellular impacts that arise upon dysregulation of metal ion homeostasis remain to be elucidated. Here, we used cadmium, a non-physiological metal ion, to investigate how the bacterial pathogen, Streptococcus pneumoniae, resists metal ion stress and dyshomeostasis. By combining transcriptomics, metabolomics and metalloproteomics, we reveal that cadmium stress dysregulates numerous essential cellular pathways including central carbon metabolism, lipid membrane biogenesis and homeostasis, and capsule production at the transcriptional and/or functional level. Despite the breadth of cellular pathways susceptible to metal intoxication, we show that S. pneumoniae is able to maintain viability by utilizing cellular pathways that are predominately metal-independent, such as the pentose phosphate pathway to maintain energy production. Collectively, this work provides insight into the cellular processes impacted by cadmium and how resistance to metal ion toxicity is achieved in S. pneumoniae.
PXD018299	33214684	Deletion of the deISGylating enzyme USP18 enhances tumour cell antigenicity and radiosensitivity. 	Deep analysis of the USP18-dependent ISGylome and proteome unveils important roles for USP18 in tumour cell antigenicity and radiosensitivity	ISG15, USP18, cancer, deISGylating enzyme, immunotherapy	BACKGROUND: Interferon (IFN) signalling pathways, a key element of the innate immune response, contribute to resistance to conventional chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy, and are often deregulated in cancer. The deubiquitylating enzyme USP18 is a major negative regulator of the IFN signalling cascade and is the predominant human protease that cleaves ISG15, a ubiquitin-like protein tightly regulated in the context of innate immunity, from its modified substrate proteins in vivo. METHODS: In this study, using advanced proteomic techniques, we have significantly expanded the USP18-dependent ISGylome and proteome in a chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML)-derived cell line. USP18-dependent effects were explored further in CML and colorectal carcinoma cellular models. RESULTS: Novel ISGylation targets were characterised that modulate the sensing of innate ligands, antigen presentation and secretion of cytokines. Consequently, CML USP18-deficient cells are more antigenic, driving increased activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and are more susceptible to irradiation. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide strong evidence for USP18 in regulating antigenicity and radiosensitivity, highlighting its potential as a cancer target.
PXD021021	33215680	Decreased turnover of the CNS myelin protein Opalin in a mouse model of hereditary spastic paraplegia 35. 	Altered turnover of the CNS myelin protein Opalin in a mouse model of hereditary spastic paraplegia 35	CNS, FA2H, Isobaric labeling, Opalin, TMT, disease model, fatty acid 2-hydroxylase, fatty acid hydroxylation, hereditary spastic paraplegia 35, mice, myelin, neurodegeneration, sphingolipids, time course	Spastic paraplegia 35 (SPG35) (OMIM: 612319) or fatty acid hydroxylase-associated neurodegeneration (FAHN) is caused by deficiency of fatty acid 2-hydroxylase (FA2H). This enzyme synthesizes sphingolipids containing 2-hydroxylated fatty acids, which are particularly abundant in myelin. Fa2h-deficient (Fa2h-/-) mice develop symptoms reminiscent of the human disease and therefore serve as animal model of SPG35. In order to understand further the pathogenesis of SPG35, we compared the proteome of purified CNS myelin isolated from wild type and Fa2h-/- mice at different time points of disease progression using tandem mass tag labeling. Data analysis with a focus on myelin membrane proteins revealed a significant increase of the oligodendrocytic myelin paranodal and inner loop protein (Opalin) in Fa2h-/- mice, whereas the concentration of other major myelin proteins was not significantly changed. Western blot analysis revealed an almost 6-fold increase of Opalin in myelin of Fa2h-/- mice aged 21-23 months. A concurrent unaltered Opalin gene expression suggested a decreased turnover of the Opalin protein in Fa2h-/- mice. Supporting this hypothesis, Opalin protein half-life was reduced significantly when expressed in CHO cells synthesizing 2-hydroxylated sulfatide, compared to cells synthesizing only non-hydroxylated sulfatide. Degradation of Opalin was inhibited by inhibitors of lysosomal degradation but unaffected by proteasome inhibitors. Taken together, these results reveal a new function of 2-hydroxylated sphingolipids namely affecting the turnover of a myelin membrane protein. This may play a role in the pathogenesis of SPG35.
PXD021217	33215740	Site-specific ubiquitination of the E3 ligase HOIP regulates apoptosis and immune signaling. 	Site-specific ubiquitination of the E3 ligase HOIP regulates apoptosis and immune signaling	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Site-specific ubiquitination of the E3 ligase HOIP regulates apoptosis and immune signaling	HOIP, the catalytic component of the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC), is a critical regulator of inflammation. However, how HOIP itself is regulated to control inflammatory responses is unclear. Here, we discover that site-specific ubiquitination of K784 within human HOIP promotes tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced inflammatory signaling. A HOIP K784R mutant is catalytically active but shows reduced induction of an NF-kappaB reporter relative to wild-type HOIP. HOIP K784 is evolutionarily conserved, equivalent to HOIP K778 in mice. We generated Hoip(K778R/K778R) knock-in mice, which show no overt developmental phenotypes; however, in response to TNF, Hoip(K778R/K778R) mouse embryonic fibroblasts display mildly suppressed NF-kappaB activation and increased apoptotic markers. On the other hand, HOIP K778R enhances the TNF-induced formation of TNFR complex II and an interaction between TNFR complex II and LUBAC. Loss of the LUBAC component SHARPIN leads to embryonic lethality in Hoip(K778R/K778R) mice, which is rescued by knockout of TNFR1. We propose that site-specific ubiquitination of HOIP regulates a LUBAC-dependent switch between survival and apoptosis in TNF signaling.
PXD020884	33215756	Phosphoproteomics reveals novel modes of function and inter-relationships among PIKKs in response to genotoxic stress. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals novel modes of function and inter-relationships among PIKKs in response to genotoxic stress	ATM, ATR, DDR, DNA damage, DNA-PK	The DNA damage response (DDR) is a complex signaling network that relies on cascades of protein phosphorylation, which are initiated by three protein kinases of the family of PI3-kinase-related protein kinases (PIKKs): ATM, ATR, and DNA-PK. ATM is missing or inactivated in the genome instability syndrome, ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T). The relative shares of these PIKKs in the response to genotoxic stress and the functional relationships among them are central questions in the genome stability field. We conducted a comprehensive phosphoproteomic analysis in human wild-type and A-T cells treated with the double-strand break-inducing chemical, neocarzinostatin, and validated the results with the targeted proteomic technique, selected reaction monitoring. We also matched our results with 34 published screens for DDR factors, creating a valuable resource for identifying strong candidates for novel DDR players. We uncovered fine-tuned dynamics between the PIKKs following genotoxic stress, such as DNA-PK-dependent attenuation of ATM. In A-T cells, partial compensation for ATM absence was provided by ATR and DNA-PK, with distinct roles and kinetics. The results highlight intricate relationships between these PIKKs in the DDR.
PXD011334	33216553	Comprehensive Analysis of the Proteome and PTMomes of C2C12 Myoblasts Reveals that Sialylation Plays a Role in the Differentiation of Skeletal Muscle Cells. 	Comprehensive analysis of the proteome, phosphoproteome and N-linked sialylated glycoproteome of C2C12 myoblasts	PTMome, skeletal myoblasts	The C2C12 myoblast is a model that has been used extensively to study the process of skeletal muscle differentiation. Proteomics has advanced our understanding of skeletal muscle biology and also the differentiation process of skeletal muscle cells. However, there is still no comprehensive analysis of C2C12 myoblast proteomes, which is important for the understanding of key drivers for the differentiation of skeletal muscle cells. Here, we conducted multidimensional proteome profiling to get a comprehensive analysis of proteomes and PTMomes of C2C12 myoblasts with a TiSH strategy. A total of 8313 protein groups were identified, including 7827 protein groups from nonmodified peptides, 3803 phosphoproteins, and 977 formerly sialylated N-linked glycoproteins. Integrated analysis of proteomic and PTMomic data showed that almost all of the kinases and transcription factors in the muscle cell differentiation pathway were phosphorylated. Further analysis indicated that sialylation might play a role in the differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts. Further functional analysis demonstrated that C2C12 myoblasts showed a decreased level of sialylation during skeletal muscle cell differentiation. Inhibition of sialylation with the sialyltransferase inhibitor 3Fax-Neu5Ac resulted in the lower expression of MHC and suppression of myoblast fusion. In all, these results indicate that sialylation has an effect on the differentiation of skeletal muscle cells.
PXD010619	33216923	Abundance of metalloprotease FtsH12 modulates chloroplast development in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Arabidopsis thaliana ftsH12 label-free shotgun	ftsH12 Arabidopsis thaliana LFQ label-free shotgun proteomics	The ATP-dependent metalloprotease FtsH12 (filamentation temperature sensitive protein H 12) has been suggested to participate in a heteromeric motor complex, driving protein translocation into the chloroplast. FtsH12 was immuno-detected in proplastids, seedlings, leaves, and roots. Expression of Myc-tagged FtsH12 under its native promotor allowed identification of FtsHi1, 2, 4, and 5, and plastidic NAD-malate dehydrogenase, five of the six interaction partners in the suggested import motor complex. Arabidopsis thaliana mutant seedlings with reduced FTSH12 abundance exhibited pale cotyledons and small, deformed chloroplasts with altered thylakoid structure. Mature plants retained these chloroplast defects, resulting in slightly variegated leaves and lower chlorophyll content. Label-free proteomics revealed strong changes in the proteome composition of FTSH12 knock-down seedlings, reflecting impaired plastid development. The composition of the translocon on the inner chloroplast membrane (TIC) protein import complex was altered, with coordinated reduction of the FtsH12-FtsHi complex subunits and accumulation of the 1 MDa TIC complex subunits TIC56, TIC214 and TIC22-III. FTSH12 overexpressor lines showed no obvious phenotype, but still displayed distinct differences in their proteome. N-terminome analyses further demonstrated normal proteolytic maturation of plastid-imported proteins irrespective of FTSH12 abundance. Together, our data suggest that FtsH12 has highest impact during seedling development; its abundance alters the plastid import machinery and impairs chloroplast development.
PXD020999	33217339	Neuropeptidomic Analysis of a Genetically Defined Cell Type in Mouse Brain and Pituitary. 	Neuropeptidomic Analysis of a Genetically Defined Cell Type in Mouse Brain and Pituitary	brain, neuropeptidomics, pituitary, single-cell	Neuropeptides and peptide hormones are important cell-cell signaling molecules that mediate many physiological processes. Unlike classic neurotransmitters, peptides undergo cell-type-specific post-translational modifications that affect their biological activity. To enable the identification of the peptide repertoire of a genetically defined cell type, we generated mice with a conditional disruption of the gene for carboxypeptidase E (Cpe), an essential neuropeptide-processing enzyme. The loss of Cpe leads to accumulation of neuropeptide precursors containing C-terminal basic residues, which serve as tags for affinity purification. The purified peptides are subsequently identified using quantitative peptidomics, thereby revealing the specific forms of neuropeptides in cells with the disrupted Cpe gene. To validate the method, we used mice expressing Cre recombinase under the proopiomelanocortin (Pomc) promoter and analyzed hypothalamic and pituitary extracts, detecting peptides derived from proopiomelanocortin (as expected) and also proSAAS in POMC neurons. This technique enables the analyses of specific forms of peptides in any Cre-expressing cell type.
PXD013590	33219317	UFBP1, a key component in ufmylation, enhances drug sensitivity by promoting proteasomal degradation of oxidative stress-response transcription factor Nrf2. 	SILAC quantification of proteins in the control and UFBP1-expressing MGC803 cells	MGC803, OrbiTrap Elite, SILAC quantification, UFBP1	The key component in the UFM1 conjugation system, UFM1-binding and PCI domain-containing protein 1 (UFBP1), regulates many biological processes. Recently it has been shown that low UFBP1 protein level is associated with the worse outcome of gastric cancer patients. However, how it responses to the sensitivity of gastric cancer to chemotherapy drugs and the underlying molecular mechanism remain elusive. Here, we discovered that high UFBP1 expression increases the progression-free survival of advanced gastric cancer patients treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. Cell-line based studies unveiled that UFBP1 expression enhances while UFBP1 knockdown attenuates the sensitivity of gastric cancer cells to cisplatin. High-throughput SILAC-based quantitative proteomic analysis revealed that the protein level of aldo-keto reductase 1Cs (AKR1Cs) is significantly downregulated by UFBP1. Flow cytometry analysis showed that UFBP1 expression increases while UFBP1 knockdown reduces reactive oxygen species upon cisplatin treatment. We further disclosed that UFBP1 attenuates the gene expression of AKR1Cs and the transcription activity of the master oxidative stress-response transcription factor Nrf2 (nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2). Detailed mechanistic studies manifested that UFBP1 promotes the formation of K48-linked polyubiquitin chains on Nrf2 and thus augments its proteasome-mediated degradation. Experiments using genetic depletion and pharmacological activation in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that UFBP1 enhances the sensitivity of gastric cancer cells to cisplatin through the Nrf2/AKR1C axis. Overall, this work discovered a novel prognostic biomarker for gastric cancer patients treated with platinum-based chemotherapy and elucidated the underlying molecular mechanism, which may benefit to future personalized chemotherapy.
PXD015317	33221352	TWEAK/Fn14 signalling promotes cholangiocarcinoma niche formation and progression. 	TWEAK/Fn14 signalling promotes cholangiocarcinoma niche formation and progression	Cholangiocarcinoma, Fn14, TWEAK, inflammation, niche, stroma	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a cancer of the hepatic bile ducts that is rarely resectable and is associated with poor prognosis. Tumour necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK) is known to signal via its receptor fibroblast growth factor-inducible 14 (Fn14) and induce cholangiocyte and myofibroblast proliferation in liver injury. We aimed to characterise its role in CCA. METHODS: The expression of the TWEAK ligand and Fn14 receptor was assessed immunohistochemically and by bulk RNA and single cell transcriptomics of human liver tissue. Spatiotemporal dynamics of pathway regulation were comprehensively analysed in rat and mouse models of thioacetamide (TAA)-mediated CCA. Flow cytometry, qPCR and proteomic analyses of CCA cell lines and conditioned medium experiments with primary macrophages were performed to evaluate the downstream functions of TWEAK/Fn14. In vivo pathway manipulation was assessed via TWEAK overexpression in NICD/AKT-induced CCA or genetic Fn14 knockout during TAA-mediated carcinogenesis. RESULTS: Our data reveal TWEAK and Fn14 overexpression in multiple human CCA cohorts, and Fn14 upregulation in early TAA-induced carcinogenesis. TWEAK regulated the secretion of factors from CC-SW-1 and SNU-1079 CCA cells, inducing polarisation of proinflammatory CD206(+) macrophages. Pharmacological blocking of the TWEAK downstream target chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1 or CCL2) significantly reduced CCA xenograft growth, while TWEAK overexpression drove cancer-associated fibroblast proliferation and collagen deposition in the tumour niche. Genetic Fn14 ablation significantly reduced inflammatory, fibrogenic and ductular responses during carcinogenic TAA-mediated injury. CONCLUSION: These novel data provide evidence for the action of TWEAK/Fn14 on macrophage recruitment and phenotype, and cancer-associated fibroblast proliferation in CCA. Targeting TWEAK/Fn14 and its downstream signals may provide a means to inhibit CCA niche development and tumour growth. LAY SUMMARY: Cholangiocarcinoma is an aggressive, chemotherapy-resistant liver cancer. Interactions between tumour cells and cells that form a supportive environment for the tumour to grow are a source of this aggressiveness and resistance to chemotherapy. Herein, we describe interactions between tumour cells and their supportive environment via a chemical messenger, TWEAK and its receptor Fn14. TWEAK/Fn14 alters the recruitment and type of immune cells in tumours, increases the growth of cancer-associated fibroblasts in the tumour environment, and is a potential target to reduce tumour formation.
PXD019425	33222001	Altered N-linked glycosylation in endometrial cancer. 	Altered N-linked Glycosylation in Endometrial Cancer	Biomarker, Endometrial cancer, Glycan Imaging, Lymph node metastasis	It is well established that cell surface glycans play a vital role in biological processes and their altered form can lead to carcinogenesis. Mass spectrometry-based techniques have become prominent for analysing N-linked glycans, for example using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI MS). Additionally, MALDI MS can be used to spatially map N-linked glycans directly from cancer tissue using a technique termed MALDI MS imaging (MALDI MSI). This powerful technique combines mass spectrometry and histology to visualise the spatial distribution of N-linked glycans on a single tissue section. Here, we performed N-glycan MALDI MSI on six endometrial cancer (EC) formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue sections and tissue microarrays (TMA) consisting of eight EC patients with lymph node metastasis (LNM) and twenty without LNM. By doing so, several putative N-linked glycan compositions were detected that could significantly distinguish normal from cancerous endometrium. Furthermore, a complex core-fucosylated N-linked glycan was detected that could discriminate a primary tumour with and without LNM. Structural identification of these putative N-linked glycans was performed using porous graphitized carbon liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (PGC-LC-MS/MS). Overall, we observed higher abundance of oligomannose glycans in tumour compared to normal regions with AUC ranging from 0.85-0.99, and lower abundance of complex N-linked glycans with AUC ranges from 0.03-0.28. A comparison of N-linked glycans between primary tumours with and without LNM indicated a reduced abundance of a complex core-fucosylated N-glycan (Hex)2(HexNAc)2(Deoxyhexose)1+(Man)3(GlcNAc)2, in primary tumour with associated lymph node metastasis. In summary, N-linked glycan MALDI MSI can be used to differentiate cancerous endometrium from normal, and endometrial cancer with LNM from endometrial cancer without.
PXD018348	33224174	Identification and Characterization of the Heat-Induced Plastidial Stress Granules Reveal New Insight Into Arabidopsis Stress Response. 	Identification and characterization of the heat-induced plastidial stress granules-like foci in Arabidopsis thaliana.	AP_MS, Co-IP, Interactions, Snowy Cotyledon 1. Stress treatment, Stress granules	Plants exhibit different physiological and molecular responses to adverse changes in their environment. One such molecular response is the sequestration of proteins, RNAs, and metabolites into cytoplasmic bodies called stress granules (cSGs). Here we report that, in addition to cSGs, heat stress also induces the formation of SG-like foci (cGs) in the chloroplasts of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Similarly to the cSGs, (i) cpSG assemble rapidly in response to stress and disappear when the stress ceases, (ii) cpSG formation is inhibited by treatment with a translation inhibitor (lincomycin), and (iii) cpSG are composed of a stable core and a fluid outer shell. A previously published protocol for cSG extraction was successfully adapted to isolate cpSG, followed by protein, metabolite, and RNA analysis. Analogously to the cSGs, cpSG sequester proteins essential for SG formation, dynamics, and function, also including RNA-binding proteins with prion-like domain, ATPases and chaperones, and the amino acids proline and glutamic acid. However, the most intriguing observation relates to the cpSG localization of proteins, such as a complete magnesium chelatase complex, which is involved in photosynthetic acclimation to stress. These data suggest that cpSG have a role in plant stress tolerance.
PXD021958	33225563	BRLF1 suppresses RNA Pol III-mediated RIG-I inflammasome activation in the early EBV lytic lifecycle. 	Mass spectrometry of human A549 cells transfected with EBV BRLF1	human cell EBV BRLF1	Latent infection with herpesviruses constitutively activates inflammasomes, while lytic replication suppresses their activation through distinct mechanisms. However, how Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic replication inhibits the activation of inflammasomes remains unknown. Here, we reveal that the EBV immediate-early protein BRLF1 inhibits inflammasome activation, and BRLF1 deficiency significantly increases the activation of inflammasomes and pyroptosis during early lytic lifecycle. BRLF1 interacts with RNA polymerase III subunits to suppress immunostimulatory small RNA transcription, RIG-I inflammasome activation, and antiviral responses. Consequently, BRLF1-deficient EBV primary infection induces robust T-cell and NK cell activation and killing through IL-1beta and IL-18. A BRLF1-derived peptide that inhibits inflammasome activation is sufficient to suppress T-cell and NK cell responses during BRLF1-deficient EBV primary infection in lymphocytes. These results reveal a novel mechanism involved in the evasion of inflammasome activation and antiviral responses during EBV early lytic infection and provide a promising approach for the manipulation of inflammasomes against infection of oncogenic herpesviruses.
PXD021183	33225711	Integrating Top-Down and Bottom-Up Mass Spectrometric Strategies for Proteomic Profiling of Iranian Saw-Scaled Viper, Echis carinatus sochureki, Venom. 	Saw-scaled viper, Echis carinatus sochureki, venomics	Echis carinatus sochureki, Iran, Saw-scaled viper, venomics	Saw-scaled or carpet vipers (genus Echis) are considered to cause a higher global snakebite mortality than any other snake. Echis carinatus sochureki (ECS) is a widely distributed snake species, also found across the thirteen provinces of Iran, where it is assumed to be responsible for the most snakebite envenomings. Here, we collected the Iranian specimens of ECS from three different geographically distinct populations, investigated food habits, and performed toxicity assessment and venom proteome profiling to better understand saw-scaled viper life. Our results show that the prey items most commonly found in all populations were arthropods, with scorpions from the family Buthidae particularly well represented. LD50 (median lethal dose) values of the crude venom demonstrate highly comparable venom toxicities in mammals. Consistent with this finding, venom characterization via top-down and bottom-up proteomics, applied to both crude venoms and size-exclusion chromatographic fractions, revealed highly comparable venom compositions among the different populations. By combining all proteomics data, we identified 22 protein families from 102 liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) raw files, including the most abundant snake venom metalloproteinases (SVMPs, 29-34%); phospholipase A2 (PLA2s, 26-31%); snake venom serine proteinases (SVSPs, 11-12%); l-amino acid oxidases (LAOs, 8-11%), C-type lectins/lectin-like (CTLs, 7-9%) protein families, and many newly detected ones, e.g., renin-like aspartic proteases (RLAPs), fibroblast growth factors (FGFs), peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerases (PPIs), and venom vasodilator peptides (VVPs). Furthermore, we identified and characterized methylated, acetylated, and oxidized proteoforms relating to the PLA2 and disintegrin toxin families and the site of their modifications. It thus seems that post-translational modifications (PTMs) of toxins, particularly target lysine residues, may play an essential role in the structural and functional properties of venom proteins and might be able to influence the therapeutic response of antivenoms, to be investigated in future studies.
PXD017973	33225887	The expression of the acarbose biosynthesis gene cluster in Actinoplanes sp. SE50/110 is dependent on the growth phase. 	The expression of the acarbose biosynthetic gene cluster of Actinoplanes sp. SE50/110 is dependent on the growth phase	Actinoplanes sp. SE50/110, acarbose, co-regulation, expression dynamics, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Actinoplanes sp. SE50/110 is the natural producer of the diabetes mellitus drug acarbose, which is highly produced during the growth phase and ceases during the stationary phase. In previous works, the growth-dependency of acarbose formation was assumed to be caused by a decreasing transcription of the acarbose biosynthesis genes during transition and stationary growth phase. RESULTS: In this study, transcriptomic data using RNA-seq and state-of-the-art proteomic data from seven time points of controlled bioreactor cultivations were used to analyze expression dynamics during growth of Actinoplanes sp. SE50/110. A hierarchical cluster analysis revealed co-regulated genes, which display similar transcription dynamics over the cultivation time. Aside from an expected metabolic switch from primary to secondary metabolism during transition phase, we observed a continuously decreasing transcript abundance of all acarbose biosynthetic genes from the early growth phase until stationary phase, with the strongest decrease for the monocistronically transcribed genes acbA, acbB, acbD and acbE. Our data confirm a similar trend for acb gene transcription and acarbose formation rate. Surprisingly, the proteome dynamics does not follow the respective transcription for all acb genes. This suggests different protein stabilities or post-transcriptional regulation of the Acb proteins, which in turn could indicate bottlenecks in the acarbose biosynthesis. Furthermore, several genes are co-expressed with the acb gene cluster over the course of the cultivation, including eleven transcriptional regulators (e.g. ACSP50_0424), two sigma factors (ACSP50_0644, ACSP50_6006) and further genes, which have not previously been in focus of acarbose research in Actinoplanes sp. SE50/110. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we have demonstrated, that a genome wide transcriptome and proteome analysis in a high temporal resolution is well suited to study the acarbose biosynthesis and the transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation thereof.
PXD020029	33226337	Differential impact of BTK active site inhibitors on the conformational state of full-length BTK. 	Differential impact of BTK active site inhibitors on the conformational state of full-length BTK	Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase, CC-292, CGI1746, Dasatinib, GDC-0853, HDX-MS, Ibrutinib, SH2 domain, allostery, conformational selection, drug resistance, hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry	Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is targeted in the treatment of B-cell disorders including leukemias and lymphomas. Currently approved BTK inhibitors, including Ibrutinib, a first-in-class covalent inhibitor of BTK, bind directly to the kinase active site. While effective at blocking the catalytic activity of BTK, consequences of drug binding on the global conformation of full-length BTK are unknown. Here, we uncover a range of conformational effects in full-length BTK induced by a panel of active site inhibitors, including large-scale shifts in the conformational equilibria of the regulatory domains. Additionally, we find that a remote Ibrutinib resistance mutation, T316A in the BTK SH2 domain, drives spurious BTK activity by destabilizing the compact autoinhibitory conformation of full-length BTK, shifting the conformational ensemble away from the autoinhibited form. Future development of BTK inhibitors will need to consider long-range allosteric consequences of inhibitor binding, including the emerging application of these BTK inhibitors in treating COVID-19.
PXD018602	33226812	Identification of Blood-Brain Barrier-Associated Proteins in the Human Brain. 	Identification of barrier-specific proteins in the human brain	blood-brain barrier	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for cerebral homeostasis and controls the selective passage of molecules traveling in and out of the brain. Despite the crucial role of the BBB in a variety of brain diseases and its relevance for the development of drugs, there is little known about its molecular architecture. In particular, the composition of the basal lamina between the astrocytic end-feet and the endothelial cells is only partly known. Here, we present a proteomic analysis of the basal lamina of the human BBB. We combined laser capture microdissection with shotgun proteomics for selective enrichment and identification of specific proteins present in the cerebral microvasculature and arachnoidal vessels collected from normal human brain tissue specimens. Proteins found to be associated with the blood-brain barrier were validated by immunohistochemistry. Expression of membrane protein MLC1 was found in all brain barriers. Phosphoglucomutase-like protein 5 appeared to be variably present along the outer part of intracerebral vessels, and multidrug resistance protein 1 was identified in both intracerebral, as well as arachnoidal blood vessels. The results demonstrate the presence of so far unidentified proteins in the human BBB and illustrate topic differences in their expression. In conclusion, we showed that sample purification by microdissection followed by shotgun proteomics provides a list of proteins identified in the BBB. Subsequent immunohistochemistry detailed the respective expression sites of membrane protein MLC1 and phosphoglucomutase-related protein 5. The role of the identified proteins in the functioning of the BBB needs further investigations.
PXD018273	33226818	Zirconium(IV)-IMAC Revisited: Improved Performance and Phosphoproteome Coverage by Magnetic Microparticles for Phosphopeptide Affinity Enrichment. 	Zirconium(IV)-IMAC for phosphopeptide enrichment in phosphoproteomics	IMAC, MOAC, affinity enrichment, cell signalling, functional proteomics, magnetic particles, protein phosphorylation	Phosphopeptide enrichment is an essential step in large-scale, quantitative phosphoproteomics by mass spectrometry. Several phosphopeptide affinity enrichment techniques exist, such as immobilized metal-ion affinity chromatography (IMAC) and metal oxide affinity chromatography (MOAC). We compared zirconium(IV) IMAC (Zr-IMAC) magnetic microparticles to more commonly used titanium(IV) IMAC (Ti-IMAC) and TiO2 magnetic microparticles for phosphopeptide enrichment from simple and complex protein samples prior to phosphopeptide sequencing and characterization by mass spectrometry (liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, LC-MS/MS). We optimized sample-loading conditions to increase phosphopeptide recovery for Zr-IMAC-, Ti-IMAC-, and TiO2-based workflows by 22, 24, and 35%, respectively. The optimized protocol resulted in improved performance of Zr-IMAC over Ti-IMAC and TiO2 as well as high-performance liquid chromatography-based Fe(III)-IMAC with up to 23% more identified phosphopeptides. The different enrichment chemistries showed a high degree of overlap but also differences in phosphopeptide selectivity and complementarity. We conclude that Zr-IMAC improves phosphoproteome coverage and recommend that this complementary and scalable affinity enrichment method is more widely used in biological and biomedical studies of cell signaling and the search for biomarkers. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD018273.
PXD020557	33228226	Convergence of Plasma Metabolomics and Proteomics Analysis to Discover Signatures of High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer. 	Convergence of plasma metabolomics and proteomics analysis to discover signatures of high-grade serous ovarian cancer	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Ovarian cancer, Plasma, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), metabolome	The 5-year survival rate in the early and late stages of ovarian cancer differs by 63%. In addition, a liquid biopsy is necessary because there are no symptoms in the early stage and tissue collection is difficult without using invasive methods. Therefore, there is a need for biomarkers to achieve this goal. In this study, we found blood-based metabolite or protein biomarker candidates for the diagnosis of ovarian cancer in the 20 clinical samples (10 ovarian cancer patients and 10 healthy control subjects). Plasma metabolites and proteins were measured and quantified using mass spectrometry in ovarian cancer patients and control groups. We identified the differential abundant biomolecules (34 metabolites and 197 proteins) and statistically integrated molecules of different dimensions to better understand ovarian cancer signal transduction and to identify novel biological mechanisms. In addition, the biomarker reliability was verified through comparison with existing research results. Integrated analysis of metabolome and proteome identified emerging properties difficult to grasp with the single omics approach, more reliably interpreted the cancer signaling pathway, and explored new drug targets. Especially, through this analysis, proteins (PPCS, PMP2, and TUBB) and metabolites (L-carnitine and PC-O (30:0)) related to the carnitine system involved in cancer plasticity were identified.
PXD022456	33228257	Efficient Confirmation of Plant Viral Proteins and Identification of Specific Viral Strains by nanoLC-ESI-Q-TOF Using Single-Leaf-Tissue Samples. 	Confirmation of plant viral proteins and identification of specific viral strains by nanoLC-ESI-Q-TOF using single-leaf-tissue samples	BBWV-2, BCMV, BMV, BYDV/BYDV-PAV, CaMV, PPV, SCMV, SrMV, TAV, TMV, TRSV, TVCV, TuMV, WDV, plant, viral proteins	Plant viruses are important pathogens that cause significant crop losses. A plant protein extraction protocol that combines crushing the tissue by a pestle in liquid nitrogen with subsequent crushing by a roller-ball crusher in urea solution, followed by RuBisCO depletion, reduction, alkylation, protein digestion, and ZipTip purification allowed us to substantially simplify the sample preparation by removing any other precipitation steps and to detect viral proteins from samples, even with less than 0.2 g of leaf tissue, by a medium resolution nanoLC-ESI-Q-TOF. The presence of capsid proteins or polyproteins of fourteen important viruses from seven different families (Geminiviridae, Luteoviridae, Bromoviridae, Caulimoviridae, Virgaviridae, Potyviridae, and Secoviridae) isolated from ten different economically important plant hosts was confirmed through many identified pathogen-specific peptides from a protein database of host proteins and potential pathogen proteins assembled separately for each host and based on existing online plant virus pathogen databases. The presented extraction protocol, combined with a medium resolution LC-MS/MS, represents a cost-efficient virus protein confirmation method that proved to be effective at identifying virus strains (as demonstrated for PPV, WDV) and distinct disease species of BYDV, as well as putative new viral protein sequences from single-plant-leaf tissue samples. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022456.
PXD015371	33230114	STRAP regulates alternative splicing fidelity during lineage commitment of mouse embryonic stem cells. 	STRAP regulates alternative splicing fidelity during lineage commitment of mouse embryonic stem cells	STRAP, stem cells	Alternative splicing (AS) is involved in cell fate decisions and embryonic development. However, regulation of these processes is poorly understood. Here, we have identified the serine threonine kinase receptor-associated protein (STRAP) as a putative spliceosome-associated factor. Upon Strap deletion, there are numerous AS events observed in mouse embryoid bodies (EBs) undergoing a neuroectoderm-like state. Global mapping of STRAP-RNA binding in mouse embryos by enhanced-CLIP sequencing (eCLIP-seq) reveals that STRAP preferably targets transcripts for nervous system development and regulates AS through preferred binding positions, as demonstrated for two neuronal-specific genes, Nnat and Mark3. We have found that STRAP involves in the assembly of 17S U2 snRNP proteins. Moreover, in Xenopus, loss of Strap leads to impeded lineage differentiation in embryos, delayed neural tube closure, and altered exon skipping. Collectively, our findings reveal a previously unknown function of STRAP in mediating the splicing networks of lineage commitment, alteration of which may be involved in early embryonic lethality in mice.
PXD019446	33230158	A primary human T-cell spectral library to facilitate large scale quantitative T-cell proteomics. 	A primary human T-cell spectral library to facilitate large scale quantitative T-cell proteomics	Primary T-cells, SWATH, Spectral library	Data independent analysis (DIA) exemplified by sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH-MS) provides robust quantitative proteomics data, but the lack of a public primary human T-cell spectral library is a current resource gap. Here, we report the generation of a high-quality spectral library containing data for 4,833 distinct proteins from human T-cells across genetically unrelated donors, covering ~24% proteins of the UniProt/SwissProt reviewed human proteome. SWATH-MS analysis of 18 primary T-cell samples using the new human T-cell spectral library reliably identified and quantified 2,850 proteins at 1% false discovery rate (FDR). In comparison, the larger Pan-human spectral library identified and quantified 2,794 T-cell proteins in the same dataset. As the libraries identified an overlapping set of proteins, combining the two libraries resulted in quantification of 4,078 human T-cell proteins. Collectively, this large data archive will be a useful public resource for human T-cell proteomic studies. The human T-cell library is available at SWATHAtlas and the data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD019446 and PXD019542) and PeptideAtlas (PASS01587).
PXD021606	33230266	Metabolic versatility of the nitrite-oxidizing bacterium Nitrospira marina and its proteomic response to oxygen-limited conditions. 	Metabolic versatility of the nitrite-oxidizing bacterium Nitrospira marina and its proteomic response to oxygen-limited conditions	Nitrospira marina, Thermo orbitrap	The genus Nitrospira is the most widespread group of nitrite-oxidizing bacteria and thrives in diverse natural and engineered ecosystems. Nitrospira marina Nb-295(T) was isolated from the ocean over 30 years ago; however, its genome has not yet been analyzed. Here, we investigated the metabolic potential of N. marina based on its complete genome sequence and performed physiological experiments to test genome-derived hypotheses. Our data confirm that N. marina benefits from additions of undefined organic carbon substrates, has adaptations to resist oxidative, osmotic, and UV light-induced stress and low dissolved pCO2, and requires exogenous vitamin B12. In addition, N. marina is able to grow chemoorganotrophically on formate, and is thus not an obligate chemolithoautotroph. We further investigated the proteomic response of N. marina to low (~5.6 microM) O2 concentrations. The abundance of a potentially more efficient CO2-fixing pyruvate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase (POR) complex and a high-affinity cbb3-type terminal oxidase increased under O2 limitation, suggesting a role in sustaining nitrite oxidation-driven autotrophy. This putatively more O2-sensitive POR complex might be protected from oxidative damage by Cu/Zn-binding superoxide dismutase, which also increased in abundance under low O2 conditions. Furthermore, the upregulation of proteins involved in alternative energy metabolisms, including Group 3b [NiFe] hydrogenase and formate dehydrogenase, indicate a high metabolic versatility to survive conditions unfavorable for aerobic nitrite oxidation. In summary, the genome and proteome of the first marine Nitrospira isolate identifies adaptations to life in the oxic ocean and provides insights into the metabolic diversity and niche differentiation of NOB in marine environments.
PXD021993	33231376	The secretome of liver X receptor agonist-treated early outgrowth cells decreases atherosclerosis in Ldlr-/- mice. 	The Secretome of Liver X Receptor Agonist Treated Early Outgrowth Cells Decreases Atherosclerosis in Ldlr-/- Mice	Atherosclerosis, EPC, Endothelial Progenitor cells, LXR, Liver X Receptor	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) promote the maintenance of the endothelium by secreting vasoreparative factors. A population of EPCs known as early outgrowth cells (EOCs) is being investigated as novel cell-based therapies for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. We previously demonstrated that the absence of liver X receptors (LXRs) is detrimental to the formation and function of EOCs under hypercholesterolemic conditions. Here, we investigate whether LXR activation in EOCs is beneficial for the treatment of atherosclerosis. EOCs were differentiated from the bone marrow of wild-type (WT) and LXR-knockout (Lxralphabeta-/-) mice in the presence of vehicle or LXR agonist (GW3965). WT EOCs treated with GW3965 throughout differentiation showed reduced mRNA expression of endothelial lineage markers (Cd144, Vegfr2) compared with WT vehicle and Lxralphabeta-/- EOCs. GW3965-treated EOCs produced secreted factors that reduced monocyte adhesion to activated endothelial cells in culture. When injected into atherosclerosis-prone Ldlr-/- mice, GW3965-treated EOCs, or their corresponding conditioned media (CM) were both able to reduce aortic sinus plaque burden compared with controls. Furthermore, when human EOCs (obtained from patients with established CAD) were treated with GW3965 and the CM applied to endothelial cells, monocyte adhesion was decreased, indicating that our results in mice could be translated to patients. Ex vivo LXR agonist treatment of EOCs therefore produces a secretome that decreases early atherosclerosis in Ldlr-/- mice, and additionally, CM from human EOCs significantly inhibits monocyte to endothelial adhesion. Thus, active factor(s) within the GW3965-treated EOC secretome may have the potential to be useful for the treatment of atherosclerosis.
PXD020117	33232301	Fecal host biomarkers predicting severity of Clostridioides difficile infection. 	Identifying fecal host biomarkers for the presence and severity of Clostridioides difficile infection using top-down proteomics	Clostridioides difficile, Clostridium difficile, alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-2-macroglobulin, biomarker discovery, feces, immunoglobulin kappa constant, matrix metalloproteinase-7, mouse model, stool	Clostridioides difficile is a major cause of health care-associated diarrhea. Severity ranges from mild to life-threatening, but this variability remains poorly understood. Microbiologic diagnosis of C. difficile infection (CDI) is straightforward but offers little insight into the patient's prognosis or into pathophysiologic determinants of clinical trajectory. The aim of this study was to discover host-derived, CDI-specific fecal biomarkers involved in disease severity. Subjects without and with CDI diarrhea were recruited. CDI severity was based on Infectious Diseases Society of America/Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America criteria. We developed a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry approach to identify host-derived protein biomarkers from stool and applied it to diagnostic samples for cohort-wise comparison (CDI-negative vs. nonsevere CDI vs. severe CDI). Selected biomarkers were orthogonally confirmed and subsequently verified in a CDI mouse model. We identified a protein signature from stool, consisting of alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2MG), matrix metalloproteinase-7 (MMP-7), and alpha-1-antitrypsin (A1AT), that not only discriminates CDI-positive samples from non-CDI ones but also is potentially associated with disease severity. In the mouse model, this signature with the murine homologs of the corresponding proteins was also identified. A2MG, MMP-7, and A1AT serve as biomarkers in patients with CDI and define novel components of the host response that may determine disease severity.
PXD021988	33233545	Is the Proteome of Bronchoalveolar Lavage Extracellular Vesicles a Marker of Advanced Lung Cancer? 	Human, bronchoalveolar lavage, extracellular vesicles	bronchoalveolar lavage, extracellular vesicles, lung cancer	Acellular bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) proteomics can partially separate lung cancer from non-lung cancer patients based on principal component analysis and multivariate analysis. Furthermore, the variance in the proteomics data sets is correlated mainly with lung cancer status and, to a lesser extent, smoking status and gender. Despite these advances BAL small and large extracellular vehicles (EVs) proteomes reveal aberrant protein expression in paracrine signaling mechanisms in cancer initiation and progression. We consequently present a case-control study of 24 bronchoalveolar lavage extracellular vesicle samples which were analyzed by state-of-the-art liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). We obtained evidence that BAL EVs proteome complexity correlated with lung cancer stage 4 and mortality within two years' follow-up (p value = 0.006). The potential therapeutic target DNMT3B complex is significantly up-regulated in tumor tissue and BAL EVs. The computational analysis of the immune and fibroblast cell markers in EVs suggests that patients who deceased within the follow-up period display higher marker expression indicative of innate immune and fibroblast cells (four out of five cases). This study provides insights into the proteome content of BAL EVs and their correlation to clinical outcomes.
PXD022200	33234594	An endogenous PI3K interactome promoting astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection identifies a novel association with RNA-binding protein ZC3H14. 	Astrocyte conditioned media-dependent Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase interactome in mouse hippocampal neuron cell line Ht22	Astrocyte, PI3K, Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, brain, iTRAQ, immunoprecipitation, interactome, neuron, neuroprotection, orbitrap	Astrocytes can support neuronal survival through a range of secreted signals that protect against neurotoxicity, oxidative stress, and apoptotic cascades. Thus, analyzing the effects of the astrocyte secretome may provide valuable insight into these neuroprotective mechanisms. Previously, we characterized a potent neuroprotective activity mediated by retinal astrocyte conditioned media (ACM) on retinal and cortical neurons in metabolic stress models. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this complex activity in neuronal cells has remained unclear. Here, a chemical genetics screen of kinase inhibitors revealed phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) as a central player transducing ACM-mediated neuroprotection. To identify additional proteins contributing to the protective cascade, endogenous PI3K was immunoprecipitated from neuronal cells exposed to ACM or control media, followed by MS/MS proteomic analyses. These data pointed toward a relatively small number of proteins that coimmunoprecipitated with PI3K, and surprisingly only five were regulated by the ACM signal. These hits included expected PI3K interactors, such as the platelet-derived growth factor receptor A (PDGFRA), as well as novel RNA-binding protein interactors ZC3H14 (zinc finger CCCH-type containing 14) and THOC1 (THO complex protein 1). In particular, ZC3H14 has recently emerged as an important RNA-binding protein with multiple roles in posttranscriptional regulation. In validation studies, we show that PI3K recruitment of ZC3H14 is necessary for PDGF-induced neuroprotection and that this interaction is present in primary retinal ganglion cells. Thus, we identified a novel non-cell autonomous neuroprotective signaling cascade mediated through PI3K that requires recruitment of ZC3H14 and may present a promising strategy to promote astrocyte-secreted prosurvival signals.
PXD020794	33235327	Proteomics analysis of serum small extracellular vesicles for the longitudinal study of a glioblastoma multiforme mouse model. 	Neuron-Derived Exosomes as a tool for the study of Parkinson disease: a rapid workflow for morphology, miRNA and proteomic characterization.Neuron-Derived Exosomes as a tool for the study of Parkinson disease: a rapid workflow for morphology, miRNA and pr	L1CAM, Parkinson Disease, neuron derived exosomes, plasma	Longitudinal analysis of disease models enables the molecular changes due to disease progression or therapeutic intervention to be better resolved. Approximately 75 microl of serum can be drawn from a mouse every 14 days. To date no methods have been reported that are able to analyze the proteome of small extracellular vesicles (sEV's) from such low serum volumes. Here we report a method for the proteomics analysis of sEV's from 50 microl of serum. Two sEV isolation procedures were first compared; precipitation based purification (PPT) and size exclusion chromatography (SEC). The methodological comparison confirmed that SEC led to purer sEV's both in terms of size and identified proteins. The procedure was then scaled down and the proteolytic digestion further optimized. The method was then applied to a longitudinal study of serum-sEV proteome changes in a glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) mouse model. Serum was collected at multiple time points, sEV's isolated and their proteins analyzed. The protocol enabled 274 protein groups to be identified and quantified. The longitudinal analysis revealed 25 deregulated proteins in GBM serum sEV's including proteins previously shown to be associated with GBM progression and metastasis (Myh9, Tln-1, Angpt1, Thbs1).
PXD012550	33237478	Coelomocyte replenishment in adult Asterias rubens: the possible ways. 	Proteome profiling of three cell populations from the common starfish Asterias rubens	Asterias rubens, LC-MALDI, SCIEX 5800, coelomic epithelium, coelomocytes, progenitor cells	The origin of cells involved in regeneration in echinoderms remains an open question. Replenishment of circulatory coelomocytes-cells of the coelomic cavity in starfish-is an example of physiological regeneration. The coelomic epithelium is considered to be the main source of coelomocytes, but many details of this process remain unclear. This study examined the role of coelomocytes outside circulation, named marginal coelomocytes and small undifferentiated cells of the coelomic epithelium in coelomocyte replenishment in Asterias rubens. A qualitative and quantitative comparison of circulatory and marginal coelomocytes, as well as changes of circulatory coelomocyte concentrations in response to injury at different physiological statuses, was analysed. The presence of cells morphologically similar to coelomocytes in the context of coelomic epithelium was evaluated by electron microscopy. The irregular distribution of small cells on the surface and within the coelomic epithelium was demonstrated and the origin of small undifferentiated cells and large agranulocytes from the coelomic epithelium was suggested. Two events have been proposed to mediate the replenishment of coelomocytes in the coelom: migration of mature coelomocytes of the marginal cell pool and migration of small undifferentiated cells of the coelomic epithelium. The proteomic analysis of circulatory coelomocytes, coelomic epithelial cells and a subpopulation of coelomic epithelial cells, enriched in small undifferentiated cells, revealed proteins that were common and specific for each cell pool. Among these molecules were regulatory proteins, potential participants of regenerative processes.
PXD019391	33237582	Sequestration of eIF4A by angiomotin: A novel mechanism to restrict global protein synthesis in trophoblast cells. 	Deciphering the function of Angiomotin in trophoblast cells	Angiomotin, exponentially modified protein abundance index (emPAI), in-gel digestion, normalized spectral abundance factor (NSAF)	Enrichment of angiomotin (AMOT) in the ectoplacental cone of E7.5 murine placenta prompted our investigation on the role of AMOT in trophoblast differentiation. We show here that AMOT levels increased in mouse placenta during gestation and also upon induction of differentiation in trophoblast stem cell ex vivo. Proteomic data unravelling AMOT-interactome in trophoblast cells indicated a majority of AMOT interactors to be involved in protein translation. In-depth analysis of AMOT-interactome led to identification of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A (eIF4A) as the most plausible AMOT interactor. Loss of function of AMOT enhanced, whereas, gain in function resulted in decline of global protein synthesis in trophoblast cells. Bioinformatics analysis evaluating the potential energy of AMOT-eIF4A binding suggested a strong AMOT-eIF4A interaction using a distinct groove encompassing amino acid residue positions 238 to 255 of AMOT. Co-immunoprecipitation of AMOT with eIF4A reaffirmed AMOT-eIF4A association in trophoblast cells. Deletion of 238 to 255 amino acids of AMOT resulted in abrogation of AMOT-eIF4A interaction. In addition, 238 to 255 amino acid deletion of AMOT was ineffective in eliciting AMOT's function in reducing global protein synthesis. Interestingly, AMOT-dependent sequestration of eIF4A dampened its loading to the m(7) -GTP cap and hindered its interaction with eIF4G. Furthermore, enhanced AMOT expression in placenta was associated with intrauterine growth restriction in both rats and humans. These results not only highlight a hitherto unknown novel function of AMOT in trophoblast cells but also have broad biological implications as AMOT might be an inbuilt switch to check protein synthesis in developmentally indispensable trophoblast cells.
PXD020704	33237725	Open Search Strategy for Inferring the Masses of Cross-Link Adducts on Proteins. 	Open search strategy for inferring the masses of cross-link adducts	Cross-linking, EMCS, Glutaraldehyde, Modifications, XL-MS, open search	Development of new reagents for protein cross-linking is constantly ongoing. The chemical formulas for the linker adducts formed by these reagents are usually deduced from expert knowledge and then validated by mass spectrometry. Clearly, it would be more rigorous to infer the chemical compositions of the adducts directly from the data without any prior assumptions on their chemistries. Unfortunately, the analysis tools that are currently available to detect chemical modifications on linear peptides are not applicable to the case of two cross-linked peptides. Here, we show that an adaptation of the open search strategy that works on linear peptides can be used to characterize cross-link modifications in pairs of peptides. We benchmark our approach by correctly inferring the linker masses of two well-known reagents, DSS and formaldehyde, to accuracies of a few parts per million. We then investigate the cross-linking chemistries of two poorly characterized reagents: EMCS and glutaraldehyde. In the case of EMCS, we find that the expected cross-linking chemistry is accompanied by a competing chemistry that targets other amino acid types. In the case of glutaraldehyde, we find that the chemical formula of the dominant linker is C5H4, which indicates a ringed aromatic structure. These results demonstrate how, with very little effort, our approach can yield nontrivial insights to better characterize new cross-linkers.
PXD013431	33239070	Combined the SMAC mimetic and BCL2 inhibitor sensitizes neoadjuvant chemotherapy by targeting necrosome complexes in tyrosine aminoacyl-tRNA synthase-positive breast cancer. 	In-depth proteomic analysis for discovery of response prediction markers in breast cancer chemotherpy using needle biopsy FFPE tissue	FFPE, breast cancer, chemotherapy, label-free quantification	BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy is the standard treatment for breast cancer; however, the response to chemotherapy is disappointingly low. Here, we investigated the alternative therapeutic efficacy of novel combination treatment with necroptosis-inducing small molecules to overcome chemotherapeutic resistance in tyrosine aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase (YARS)-positive breast cancer. METHODS: Pre-chemotherapeutic needle biopsy of 143 invasive ductal carcinomas undergoing the same chemotherapeutic regimen was subjected to proteomic analysis. Four different machine learning algorithms were employed to determine signature protein combinations. Immunoreactive markers were selected using three common candidate proteins from the machine-learning algorithms and verified by immunohistochemistry using 123 cases of independent needle biopsy FFPE samples. The regulation of chemotherapeutic response and necroptotic cell death was assessed using lentiviral YARS overexpression and depletion 3D spheroid formation assay, viability assays, LDH release assay, flow cytometry analysis, and transmission electron microscopy. The ROS-induced metabolic dysregulation and phosphorylation of necrosome complex by YARS were assessed using oxygen consumption rate analysis, flow cytometry analysis, and 3D cell viability assay. The therapeutic roles of SMAC mimetics (LCL161) and a pan-BCL2 inhibitor (ABT-263) were determined by 3D cell viability assay and flow cytometry analysis. Additional biologic process and protein-protein interaction pathway analysis were performed using Gene Ontology annotation and Cytoscape databases. RESULTS: YARS was selected as a potential biomarker by proteomics-based machine-learning algorithms and was exclusively associated with good response to chemotherapy by subsequent immunohistochemical validation. In 3D spheroid models of breast cancer cell lines, YARS overexpression significantly improved chemotherapy response via phosphorylation of the necrosome complex. YARS-induced necroptosis sequentially mediated mitochondrial dysfunction through the overproduction of ROS in breast cancer cell lines. Combination treatment with necroptosis-inducing small molecules, including a SMAC mimetic (LCL161) and a pan-BCL2 inhibitor (ABT-263), showed therapeutic efficacy in YARS-overexpressing breast cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that, before chemotherapy, an initial screening of YARS protein expression should be performed, and YARS-positive breast cancer patients might consider the combined treatment with LCL161 and ABT-263; this could be a novel stepwise clinical approach to apply new targeted therapy in breast cancer patients in the future.
PXD012774	33239621	The Hsp70-Hsp90 co-chaperone Hop/Stip1 shifts the proteostatic balance from folding towards degradation. 	The Hsp70/hsp90 Co-chaperone Hop/stip1 Shifts the Proteostatic Balance From Folding Towards Degradation	Hop, Hsp70, Hsp90, Molecular chaperone, Proteasome, Protein degradation, Protein folding, Protein quality control, Proteostasis	Hop/Stip1/Sti1 is thought to be essential as a co-chaperone to facilitate substrate transfer between the Hsp70 and Hsp90 molecular chaperones. Despite this proposed key function for protein folding and maturation, it is not essential in a number of eukaryotes and bacteria lack an ortholog. We set out to identify and to characterize its eukaryote-specific function. Human cell lines and the budding yeast with deletions of the Hop/Sti1 gene display reduced proteasome activity due to inefficient capping of the core particle with regulatory particles. Unexpectedly, knock-out cells are more proficient at preventing protein aggregation and at promoting protein refolding. Without the restraint by Hop, a more efficient folding activity of the prokaryote-like Hsp70-Hsp90 complex, which can also be demonstrated in vitro, compensates for the proteasomal defect and ensures the proteostatic equilibrium. Thus, cells may act on the level and/or activity of Hop to shift the proteostatic balance between folding and degradation.
PXD018110	33239640	Spatial proteomics defines the content of trafficking vesicles captured by golgin tethers. 	Spatial proteomics defines the content of trafficking vesicles captured by golgin tethers	Golgin, HeLa, LOPIT-DC, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, organell protein relocalization	Intracellular traffic between compartments of the secretory and endocytic pathways is mediated by vesicle-based carriers. The proteomes of carriers destined for many organelles are ill-defined because the vesicular intermediates are transient, low-abundance and difficult to purify. Here, we combine vesicle relocalisation with organelle proteomics and Bayesian analysis to define the content of different endosome-derived vesicles destined for the trans-Golgi network (TGN). The golgin coiled-coil proteins golgin-97 and GCC88, shown previously to capture endosome-derived vesicles at the TGN, were individually relocalised to mitochondria and the content of the subsequently re-routed vesicles was determined by organelle proteomics. Our findings reveal 45 integral and 51 peripheral membrane proteins re-routed by golgin-97, evidence for a distinct class of vesicles shared by golgin-97 and GCC88, and various cargoes specific to individual golgins. These results illustrate a general strategy for analysing intracellular sub-proteomes by combining acute cellular re-wiring with high-resolution spatial proteomics.
PXD006921	33239784	Splicing factor YBX1 mediates persistence of JAK2-mutated neoplasms. 	Splicing factor Ybx1 maintains persistent Jak2-mutated neoplasms via Mknk1-ERK-signaling	ERKsignaling, Hematological Malignancy, JAK2, MPN, Phosphoproteome, Splicing factor, YBX1	Janus kinases (JAKs) mediate responses to cytokines, hormones and growth factors in haematopoietic cells(1,2). The JAK gene JAK2 is frequently mutated in the ageing haematopoietic system(3,4) and in haematopoietic cancers(5). JAK2 mutations constitutively activate downstream signalling and are drivers of myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN). In clinical use, JAK inhibitors have mixed effects on the overall disease burden of JAK2-mutated clones(6,7), prompting us to investigate the mechanism underlying disease persistence. Here, by in-depth phosphoproteome profiling, we identify proteins involved in mRNA processing as targets of mutant JAK2. We found that inactivation of YBX1, a post-translationally modified target of JAK2, sensitizes cells that persist despite treatment with JAK inhibitors to apoptosis and results in RNA mis-splicing, enrichment for retained introns and disruption of the transcriptional control of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signalling. In combination with pharmacological JAK inhibition, YBX1 inactivation induces apoptosis in JAK2-dependent mouse and primary human cells, causing regression of the malignant clones in vivo, and inducing molecular remission. This identifies and validates a cell-intrinsic mechanism whereby differential protein phosphorylation causes splicing-dependent alterations of JAK2-ERK signalling and the maintenance of JAK2(V617F) malignant clones. Therapeutic targeting of YBX1-dependent ERK signalling in combination with JAK2 inhibition could thus eradicate cells harbouring mutations in JAK2.
PXD021688	33240085	Licorice Ameliorates Cisplatin-Induced Hepatotoxicity Through Antiapoptosis, Antioxidative Stress, Anti-Inflammation, and Acceleration of Metabolism. 	Licorice Ameliorates Cisplatin-Induced Hepatotoxicity through Anti-apoptosis, Anti-oxidative Stress, Anti-inflammation, and Acceleration of Metabolism	cisplatin, detoxification, hepatotoxicity, licorice	Cisplatin (CP) is one of the most effective antitumor drugs in the clinic, but has serious adverse reactions, and its hepatotoxicity has not been fully investigated. Licorice (GC), a traditional herbal medicine, has been commonly used as a detoxifier for poisons and drugs, and may be an effective drug for CP-induced hepatotoxicity. However, its mechanism and the effector molecules remain ambiguous. Therefore, in this study, a network pharmacology and proteomics-based approach was established, and a panoramic view of the detoxification of GC on CP-induced hepatotoxicity was provided. The experimental results indicated that GC can recover functional indices and pathological liver injury, inhibit hepatocyte apoptosis, upregulate B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 2 (Bcl-2) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels, and downregulate cellular tumor antigen p53 (p53), caspase-3, malondialdehyde high mobility group protein B1 (HMGB1), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) levels. Proteomics indicated that GC regulates phosphatidylcholine translocator ABCB1 (ABCB1B), canalicular multispecific organic anion transporter 1 (ABCC2), cytochrome P450 4A2 (CYP4A2), cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1), cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2), estrogen receptor (ESR1), and DNA topoisomerase 2-alpha (TOP2A), inhibits oxidative stress, apoptosis, and inflammatory responses, and accelerates drug metabolism. In this study, we provide the investigation of the efficacy of GC against CP-induced hepatotoxicity, and offer a promising alternative for the clinic.
PXD019267	33240770	Multiparametric Profiling of Engineered Nanomaterials: Unmasking the Surface Coating Effect. 	Proteome changes in monocytic THP-1 cells induced by 31 engineered nanomaterials	Nanomaterials, immunotoxicology, nanotoxicology	Despite considerable efforts, the properties that drive the cytotoxicity of engineered nanomaterials (ENMs) remain poorly understood. Here, the authors inverstigate a panel of 31 ENMs with different core chemistries and a variety of surface modifications using conventional in vitro assays coupled with omics-based approaches. Cytotoxicity screening and multiplex-based cytokine profiling reveals a good concordance between primary human monocyte-derived macrophages and the human monocyte-like cell line THP-1. Proteomics analysis following a low-dose exposure of cells suggests a nonspecific stress response to ENMs, while microarray-based profiling reveals significant changes in gene expression as a function of both surface modification and core chemistry. Pathway analysis highlights that the ENMs with cationic surfaces that are shown to elicit cytotoxicity downregulated DNA replication and cell cycle responses, while inflammatory responses are upregulated. These findings are validated using cell-based assays. Notably, certain small, PEGylated ENMs are found to be noncytotoxic yet they induce transcriptional responses reminiscent of viruses. In sum, using a multiparametric approach, it is shown that surface chemistry is a key determinant of cellular responses to ENMs. The data also reveal that cytotoxicity, determined by conventional in vitro assays, does not necessarily correlate with transcriptional effects of ENMs.
PXD018102	33242464	Quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomic analyses of mouse livers after tick-borne Babesia microti infection. 	The quantitative and phosphorylation proteomics analysis of mouse liver after tick-borne Babesia microti infection	Babesia microti, lipid metabolism, liver, phosphorylation, quantitative proteomics	Babesia microti is a tick-borne protozoan parasite that infects the red blood cells of mice, humans, and other mammals. The liver tissues of BALB/c mice infected with B. microti exhibit severe injury. To further investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying liver injury and liver self-repair after B. microti infection, data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative proteomics was used to analyse changes in the expression and phosphorylation of proteins in liver tissues of BALB/c mice during a B. microti infection period and a recovery period. The expression of FABP1 and ACBP, which are related to fatty acid transport in the liver, was downregulated after infection with B. microti, as was the expression of Acox1, Ehhadh and Acaa1a, which are crucial rate-limiting enzymes in the process of fatty acid beta oxidation. The phosphorylation levels of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and Hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) were also downregulated. In addition, the expression of PSMB9, CTSC, and other immune-related proteins was increased, reflecting an active immune regulation mechanism in the mice. The weights of mice infected with B. microti were significantly reduced, and the phosphorylation levels of IRS-1, c-Raf, mTOR, and other proteins related to growth and development were downregulated.
PXD015512	33244029	Systems biology analysis of osteogenic differentiation behavior by canine mesenchymal stem cells derived from bone marrow and dental pulp. 	Different osteogenic differentiation behavior of canine mesenchymal stem cells derived from bone marrow and dental pulp: the proteomics profile	canine bone-marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (cBM-MSCs), canine dental pulp stem cells (cDPSCs), osteogenic differentiation, systems biology	Utilization of canine mesenchymal stem cells (cMSCs) for regenerating incorrigible bone diseases has been introduced. However, cMSCs harvested from different sources showed distinct osteogenicity. To clarify this, comparative proteomics-based systems biology analysis was used to analyze osteogenic differentiation behavior by cMSCs harvested from bone marrow and dental pulp. The results illustrated that canine dental pulp stem cells (cDPSCs) contained superior osteogenicity comparing with canine bone marrow-derived MSCs (cBM-MSCs) regarding alkaline phosphatase activity, matrix mineralization, and osteogenic marker expression. Global analyses by proteomics platform showed distinct protein clustering and expression pattern upon an in vitro osteogenic induction between them. Database annotation using Reactome and DAVID revealed contrast and unique expression profile of osteogenesis-related proteins, particularly on signaling pathways, cellular components and processes, and cellular metabolisms. Functional assay and hierarchical clustering for tracking protein dynamic change confirmed that cBM-MSCs required the presences of Wnt, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, and bone-morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling, while cDPSCs mainly relied on BMP signaling presentation during osteogenic differentiation in vitro. Therefore, these findings illustrated the comprehensive data regarding an in vitro osteogenic differentiation behavior by cBM-MSCs and cDPSCs which is crucial for further mechanism study and the establishment of cMSC-based bone tissue engineering (BTE) for veterinary practice.
PXD021980	33244453	Germacrone Regulates HBXIP-Mediated Cell Cycle, Apoptosis and Promotes the Formation of Autophagosomes to Inhibit the Proliferation of Gastric Cancer Cells. 	HBXIP-mediated cell cycle, apoptosis and autophagy participate in the inhibitory effect of Germacrone on gastric cancer cells	Germacrone, HBXIP	Germacrone, a monocyclic sesquiterpene, exerts marked antitumor effects in a variety of cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer, and breast cancer. However, the mechanism underlying the effects of germacrone on gastric cancer remains unclear. In this study, we show that germacrone inhibited gastric cancer cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner, and induced G0/G1-phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in these cells. Moreover, germacrone increased the expression of LC3II/LC3I. And LC3II/LC3I was significant increased after germacrone treatment compared with germacrone and bafilomycin A1 (Baf A1) treatment, which suggested germacrone promoted the formation of autophagosomes. Proteomic analysis was then used to identify molecular targets of germacrone in gastric cancer. A total of 596 proteins were screened, and the top hit was identified as late endosomal/lysosomal adaptor and MAPK and MTOR activator 5 (LAMTOR5, also named HBXIP). Overexpression of HBXIP delayed the germacrone-induced cell cycle arrest, induction of apoptosis, and inhibition of autophagy. Combined, our results indicate that germacrone suppresses gastric cancer cell proliferation by inhibiting HBXIP, and this process is related to G0/G1-phase arrest and apoptosis.
PXD020948	33246507	Comprehensive proteomic analysis of exosomes derived from human bone marrow, adipose tissue, and umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells. 	Comprehensive Proteomic Analysis of Exosomes Derived from Human Bone Marrow-, Adipose Tissue-, and Human Umbilical Cord- Mesenchymal Stem Cells	Exosomes, Extracellular vesicles, Mesenchymal stem cells, Stem cell-based therapy.	BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived exosomes have shown comprehensive application prospects over the years. Despite performing similar functions, exosomes from different origins present heterogeneous characteristics and components; however, the relative study remains scarce. Lacking of a valuable reference, researchers select source cells for exosome studies mainly based on accessibility and personal preference. METHODS: In this study, exosomes secreted by MSCs derived from different tissues were isolated, by ultracentrifugation, and proteomics analysis was performed. A total of 1014 proteins were detected using a label-free method. RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis revealed their shared function in the extracellular matrix receptor. Bone marrow MSC-derived exosomes showed superior regeneration ability, and adipose tissue MSC-derived exosomes played a significant role in immune regulation, whereas umbilical cord MSC-derived exosomes were more prominent in tissue damage repair. CONCLUSIONS: This study systematically and comprehensively analyzes the human MSC-derived exosomes via proteomics, which reveals their potential applications in different fields, so as to provide a reference for researchers to select optimal source cells in future exosome-related studies.
PXD050264	33246954	CRISPR-mediated BMP9 ablation promotes liver steatosis via the down-regulation of PPARalpha expression. 	Proteomics mass spectrometry after immunoprecipitation of  histidine phosphatase  in uveal melanoma cells	LHPP, histidine phosphatase, uveal melanoma(UM)	Obesity drives the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) characterized by hepatic steatosis. Several bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) except BMP9 were reported related to metabolic syndrome. This study demonstrates that liver cytokine BMP9 is decreased in the liver and serum of NAFLD model mice and patients. BMP9 knockdown induces lipid accumulation in Hepa 1-6 cells. BMP9-knockout mice exhibit hepatosteatosis due to down-regulated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) expression and reduced fatty acid oxidation. In vitro, recombinant BMP9 treatment attenuates triglyceride accumulation by enhancing PPARalpha promoter activity via the activation of p-smad. PPARalpha-specific antagonist GW6471 abolishes the effect of BMP9 knockdown. Furthermore, adeno-associated virus-mediated BMP9 overexpression in mouse liver markedly relieves liver steatosis and obesity-related metabolic syndrome. These findings indicate that BMP9 plays a critical role in regulating hepatic lipid metabolism in a PPARalpha-dependent manner and may provide a previously unknown insight into NAFLD therapeutic approaches.
PXD010107	33247206	Aberrant (pro)renin receptor expression induces genomic instability in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma through upregulation of SMARCA5/SNF2H. 	KSN01_Proteome_CellLine: Aberrant (pro)renin receptor expression induces genomic instability in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma through upregulation of SMARCA5/SNF2H	(pro)renin receptor, genomic instability, pancreatic ducal adenocarcinoma, tumour heterogeneity	(Pro)renin receptor [(P)RR] has a role in various diseases, such as cardiovascular and renal disorders and cancer. Aberrant (P)RR expression is prevalent in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) which is the most common pancreatic cancer. Here we show whether aberrant expression of (P)RR directly leads to genomic instability in human pancreatic ductal epithelial (HPDE) cells. (P)RR-expressing HPDE cells show obvious cellular atypia. Whole genome sequencing reveals that aberrant (P)RR expression induces large numbers of point mutations and structural variations at the genome level. A (P)RR-expressing cell population exhibits tumour-forming ability, showing both atypical nuclei characterised by distinctive nuclear bodies and chromosomal abnormalities. (P)RR overexpression upregulates SWItch/Sucrose Non-Fermentable (SWI/SNF)-related, matrix-associated, actin-dependent regulator of chromatin, subfamily a, member 5 (SMARCA5) through a direct molecular interaction, which results in the failure of several genomic stability pathways. These data reveal that aberrant (P)RR expression contributes to the early carcinogenesis of PDAC.
PXD022147	33247920	Organ-specific expression and epigenetic traits of genes encoding digestive enzymes in the lance-leaf sundew (Drosera adelae). 	Proteins in the digestive fluid of Drosera adelae	Carnivorous plant, Drosera adelae, digestive fluid	Over the last two decades, extensive studies have been performed at the molecular level to understand the evolution of carnivorous plants. As fruits, the repertoire of protein components in the digestive fluids of several carnivorous plants have gradually become clear. However, the quantitative aspects of these proteins and the expression mechanisms of the genes that encode them are still poorly understood. In this study, using the Australian sundew Drosera adelae, we identified and quantified the digestive fluid proteins. We examined the expression and methylation status of the genes corresponding to major hydrolytic enzymes in various organs; these included thaumatin-like protein, S-like RNase, cysteine protease, class I chitinase, beta-1, 3-glucanase, and hevein-like protein. The genes encoding these proteins were exclusively expressed in the glandular tentacles. Furthermore, the promoters of the beta-1, 3-glucanase and cysteine protease genes were demethylated only in the glandular tentacles, similar to the previously reported case of the S-like RNase gene da-I. This phenomenon correlated with high expression of the DNA demethylase DEMETER in the glandular tentacles, strongly suggesting that it performs glandular tentacle-specific demethylation of the genes. The current study strengthens and generalizes the relevance of epigenetics to trap organ-specific gene expression in D. adelae. We also suggest similarities between the trap organs of carnivorous plants and the roots of non-carnivorous plants.
PXD009642	33248278	Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analysis of Mannitol-metabolism-associated Genes in Saccharina japonica. 	Proteomic analysis of genes associated with mannitol metabolism in Saccharina	Saccharina japonica, mannitol	As a carbon-storage compound and osmoprotectant in brown algae, mannitol is synthesized and then accumulated at high levels in Saccharina japonica (Sja); however, the underlying control mechanisms have not been studied. Our analysis of genomic and transcriptomic data from Sja shows that mannitol metabolism is a cyclic pathway composed of four distinct steps. A mannitol-1-phosphate dehydrogenase (M1PDH2) and two mannitol-1-phosphatases (M1Pase1 and MIPase2) work together or in combination to exhibit full enzymatic properties. Based on comprehensive transcriptomic data from different tissues, generations, and sexes as well as under different stress conditions, coupled with droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) and proteomic confirmation, we suggest that SjaM1Pase1 plays a major role in mannitol biosynthesis and that the basic mannitol anabolism and the carbohydrate pool dynamics are responsible for carbon storage and anti-stress mechanism. Our proteomic data indicate that mannitol metabolism remains constant during diurnal cycle in Sja. In addition, we discover that mannitol-metabolism-associated (MMA) genes show differential expression between the multicellular filamentous (gametophyte) and large parenchymal thallus (sporophyte) generations and respond differentially to environmental stresses, such as hyposaline and hyperthermia conditions. Our results indicate that the ecophysiological significance of such differentially expressed genes may be attributable to the evolution of heteromorphic generations (filamentous and thallus) and environmental adaptation of Laminariales.
PXD020371	33250706	Comparison of Common and Disease-Specific Post-translational Modifications of Pathological Tau Associated With a Wide Range of Tauopathies. 	Analysis of pathological tau associated with a wide range of tauopathies	post-translational modification, tau, tauopathy	Tauopathies are the most common type of neurodegenerative proteinopathy, being characterized by cytoplasmic aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. The formation and morphologies of these tau inclusions, the distribution of the lesions and related metabolic changes in cytoplasm differ among different tauopathies. The aim of this study was to examine whether there are differences in the post-translational modifications (PTMs) in the pathological tau proteins. We analyzed sarkosyl-insoluble pathological tau proteins prepared from brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, globular glial tauopathy, and frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonisms linked to chromosome 17 with tau inclusions using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry. In pathological tau proteins associated with a wide range of tauopathies, 170 PTMs in total were identified including new PTMs. Among them, common PTMs were localized in the N- and C-terminal flanking regions of the microtubule binding repeats and PTMs, which were considered to be disease-specific, were found in microtubule binding repeats forming filament core. These suggested that the differences in PTMs reflected the differences in tau filament core structures in each disease.
PXD021783	33250871	LaeA Controls Virulence and Secondary Metabolism in Apple Canker Pathogen Valsa mali. 	LC-MSMS analysis of apple canker pathogen Valsa mali	LaeA deletion, TMT, Valsa mali	Apple Valsa canker is a destructive disease caused by the ascomycete Valsa mali and poses a serious threat to apple production. Toxins synthesized by secondary metabolite biosynthetic gene clusters (SMBGCs) have been proven to be crucial for pathogen virulence. A previous study showed that V. mali genome contains remarkably expanded SMBGCs and some of their genes were significantly upregulated during infection. In this study, we focus on LaeA, a known regulator of secondary metabolism, for its role in SMBGC regulation, toxin production, and virulence of V. mali. Deletion of VmLaeA led to greatly reduced virulence with lesion length reduced by 48% on apple twigs. Toxicity tests proved that toxicity of secondary metabolites (SMs) produced by VmLaeA deletion mutant (DeltaVmlaeA) was markedly decreased in comparison with wild-type (WT). Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of WT and DeltaVmlaeA indicated that a portion of transporters and about half (31/60) SMBGCs are regulated by VmLaeA. Function analysis of eight gene clusters including PKS7, PKS11, NRPS14, PKS16, PKS23, PKS31, NRPS/PKS33, and PKS39 that were differentially expressed at both transcriptional and translational levels showed that four of them (i.e., PKS11, PKS16, PKS23, and PKS31) were involved in pigment production and NRPS14 contributed to virulence. Our findings will provide new insights and gene resources for understanding the role of pathogenicity-related toxins in V. mali.
PXD020376	33250879	Genome- and Proteome-Wide Analysis of Lysine Acetylation in Vibrio vulnificus Vv180806 Reveals Its Regulatory Roles in Virulence and Antibiotic Resistance. 	Genome- and proteome-wide analysis of lysine acetylation in Vibrio vulnificus Vv180806 reveals its regulatory roles in virulence and antibiotic resistance	Vibrio vulnificus, acetylome, antibiotic resistance, virulence, whole genome sequencing	Infection with Vibrio vulnificus is notorious for its atypical clinical manifestations and irreversible disease progression. Lysine acetylation is a conserved post-translational modification (PTM) that plays a critical regulatory role in diverse cellular processes. However, little is known about the role of lysine acetylation on the pathogenesis of V. vulnificus. Here, we report the complete genome sequence and a global profile for protein lysine acetylation of V. vulnificus Vv180806, a highly cefoxitin resistant strain isolated from a mortality case. The assembled genome comprised two circular chromosomes and one circular plasmid; it contained 4,770 protein-coding genes and 153 RNA genes. Phylogenetic analysis revealed genetic homology of this strain with other V. vulnificus strains from food sources. Of all the proteins in this strain, 1,924 (40.34%) were identified to be acetylated at 6,626 sites. The acetylated proteins were enriched in metabolic processes, binding functions, cytoplasm, and multiple central metabolic pathways. Moreover, the acetylation was found in most identified virulence factors of this strain, suggesting its potentially important role in bacterial virulence. Our work provides insights into the genomic and acetylomic features responsible for the virulence and antibiotic resistance of V. vulnificus, which will facilitate future investigations on the pathogenesis of this bacterium.
PXD007814	33251127	Multi-Omics Analysis to Characterize Cigarette Smoke Induced Molecular Alterations in Esophageal Cells. 	A multi-omic analysis to characterize cigarette smoke induced molecular alterations in esophageal cells: phosphoproteomics	DNA damage response, cigarette smoke, esophageal cancer	Though smoking remains one of the established risk factors of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, there is limited data on molecular alterations associated with cigarette smoke exposure in esophageal cells. To investigate molecular alterations associated with chronic exposure to cigarette smoke, non-neoplastic human esophageal epithelial cells were treated with cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) for up to 8 months. Chronic treatment with CSC increased cell proliferation and invasive ability of non-neoplastic esophageal cells. Whole exome sequence analysis of CSC treated cells revealed several mutations and copy number variations. This included loss of high mobility group nucleosomal binding domain 2 (HMGN2) and a missense variant in mediator complex subunit 1 (MED1). Both these genes play an important role in DNA repair. Global proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of CSC treated cells lead to the identification of 38 differentially expressed and 171 differentially phosphorylated proteins. Bioinformatics analysis of differentially expressed proteins and phosphoproteins revealed that most of these proteins are associated with DNA damage response pathway. Proteomics data revealed decreased expression of HMGN2 and hypophosphorylation of MED1. Exogenous expression of HMGN2 and MED1 lead to decreased proliferative and invasive ability of smoke exposed cells. Immunohistochemical labeling of HMGN2 in primary ESCC tumor tissue sections (from smokers) showed no detectable expression while strong to moderate staining of HMGN2 was observed in normal esophageal tissues. Our data suggests that cigarette smoke perturbs expression of proteins associated with DNA damage response pathways which might play a vital role in development of ESCC.
PXD021918	33252074	Anti-Abeta Antibody Aducanumab Regulates the Proteome of Senile Plaques and Closely Surrounding Tissue in a Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease. 	Data in support of Anti-Abeta antibody treatment with Aducanumab modified the proteome of senile plaques and surrounding tissue and altered disease progression in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.	AD, PASEF, a-beta	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) species and deposition of senile plaques (SPs). Clinical trials with the anti-Abeta antibody aducanumab have been completed recently. OBJECTIVE: To characterize the proteomic profile of SPs and surrounding tissue in a mouse model of AD in 10-month-old tgAPPPS1-21 mice after chronic treatment with aducanumab for four months with weekly dosing (10 mg/kg). METHODS: After observing significant reduction of SP numbers in hippocampi of aducanumab-treated mice, we applied a localized proteomic analysis by combining laser microdissection and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) of the remaining SPs in hippocampi. We microdissected three subregions, containing SPs, SP penumbra level 1, and an additional penumbra level 2 to follow the proteomic profile as gradient. RESULTS: In the aducanumab-treated mice, we identified 17 significantly regulated proteins that were associated with 1) mitochondria and metabolism (ACAT2, ATP5J, ETFA, EXOG, HK1, NDUFA4, NDUFS7, PLCB1, PPP2R4), 2) cytoskeleton and axons (ADD1, CAPZB, DPYSL3, MAG), 3) stress response (HIST1H1C/HIST1H1D, HSPA12A), and 4) AbetaPP trafficking/processing (CD81, GDI2). These pathways and some of the identified proteins are implicated in AD pathogenesis. Proteins associated with mitochondria and metabolism were mainly upregulated while proteins associated with AbetaPP trafficking/processing and stress response pathways were mainly downregulated, suggesting that aducanumab could lead to a beneficial proteomic profile around SPs in tgAPPPS1-21 mice. CONCLUSION: We identified novel proteomic patterns of SPs and surrounding tissue indicating that chronic treatment with aducanumab could inhibit Abeta toxicity and increase phagocytosis and cell viability.
PXD010136	33252673	Frequent Assembly of Chimeric Complexes in the Protein Interaction Network of an Interspecies Yeast Hybrid. 	Yeast Proteomics              .	LCMSMS, PCP-SILAC, SEC, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces uvarum	Hybrids between species often show extreme phenotypes, including some that take place at the molecular level. In this study, we investigated the phenotypes of an interspecies diploid hybrid in terms of protein-protein interactions inferred from protein correlation profiling. We used two yeast species, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Saccharomyces uvarum, which are interfertile, but yet have proteins diverged enough to be differentiated using mass spectrometry. Most of the protein-protein interactions are similar between hybrid and parents, and are consistent with the assembly of chimeric complexes, which we validated using an orthogonal approach for the prefoldin complex. We also identified instances of altered protein-protein interactions in the hybrid, for instance, in complexes related to proteostasis and in mitochondrial protein complexes. Overall, this study uncovers the likely frequent occurrence of chimeric protein complexes with few exceptions, which may result from incompatibilities or imbalances between the parental proteomes.
PXD017451	33253538	Studying the Temporal Dynamics of the Gut Microbiota Using Metabolic Stable Isotope Labeling and Metaproteomics. 	15N labeling of mouse microbiota	15N stable isotope labeling, metaproteomics, microbiota	The gut microbiome and its metabolic processes are dynamic systems. Surprisingly, our understanding of gut microbiome dynamics is limited. Here, we report a metaproteomic workflow that involves protein stable isotope probing (protein-SIP) and identification/quantification of partially labeled peptides. We also developed a package, which we call MetaProfiler, that corrects for false identifications and performs phylogenetic and time series analysis for the study of microbiome dynamics. From the stool sample of five mice that were fed with (15)N hydrolysate from Ralstonia eutropha, we identified 12 326 nonredundant unlabeled peptides, of which 8256 of their heavy counterparts were quantified. These peptides revealed incorporation profiles over time that were different between and within taxa, as well as between and within clusters of orthologous groups (COGs). Our study helps unravel the complex dynamics of protein synthesis and bacterial dynamics in the mouse microbiome. MetaProfiler and the bioinformatic pipeline are available at https://github.com/northomics/MetaProfiler.git.
PXD022037	33255744	Exploring the Interaction between the SWI/SNF Chromatin Remodeling Complex and the Zinc Finger Factor CTCF. 	Exploring the interaction between the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex and the zinc finger factor CTCF	BRG1, BRK, CTCF, Chromatin, Proteinprotein interaction, SWI/SNF, Transcription factor	The transcription factor CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) modulates pleiotropic functions mostly related to gene expression regulation. The role of CTCF in large scale genome organization is also well established. A unifying model to explain relationships among many CTCF-mediated activities involves direct or indirect interactions with numerous protein cofactors recruited to specific binding sites. The co-association of CTCF with other architectural proteins such as cohesin, chromodomain helicases, and BRG1, further supports the interplay between master regulators of mammalian genome folding. Here, we report a comprehensive LC-MS/MS mapping of the components of the switch/sucrose nonfermentable (SWI/SNF) chromatin remodeling complex co-associated with CTCF including subunits belonging to the core, signature, and ATPase modules. We further show that the localization patterns of representative SWI/SNF members significantly overlap with CTCF sites on transcriptionally active chromatin regions. Moreover, we provide evidence of a direct binding of the BRK-BRG1 domain to the zinc finger motifs 4-8 of CTCF, thus, suggesting that these domains mediate the interaction of CTCF with the SWI/SNF complex. These findings provide an updated view of the cooperative nature between CTCF and the SWI/SNF ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes, an important step for understanding how these architectural proteins collaborate to shape the genome.
PXD033340	33255891	Multi-Omics and Informatics Analysis of FFPE Tissues Derived from Melanoma Patients with Long/Short Responses to Anti-PD1 Therapy Reveals Pathways of Response. 	Multi-Omics and Informatics Analysis of FFPE Tissues Derived from Melanoma Patients with Long/Short Responses to Anti-PD1 Therapy Reveals Pathways of Response	Immune Checkpoint Blockade, Label Free Expression Proteomics, Melanoma	Anti-PD-1 based immune therapies are thought to be dependent on antigen processing and presentation mechanisms. To characterize the immune-dependent mechanisms that predispose stage III/IV melanoma patients to respond to anti-PD-1 therapies, we performed a multi-omics study consisting of expression proteomics and targeted immune-oncology-based mRNA sequencing. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue samples were obtained from stage III/IV patients with melanoma prior to anti-PD-1 therapy. The patients were first stratified into poor and good responders based on whether their tumors had or had not progressed while on anti-PD-1 therapy for 1 year. We identified 263 protein/gene candidates that displayed differential expression, of which 223 were identified via proteomics and 40 via targeted-mRNA analyses. The downstream analyses of expression profiles using MetaCore software demonstrated an enrichment of immune system pathways involved in antigen processing/presentation and cytokine production/signaling. Pathway analyses showed interferon (IFN)-gamma-mediated signaling via NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT pathways to affect immune processes in a cell-specific manner and to interact with the inducible nitric oxide synthase. We review these findings within the context of available literature on the efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy. The comparison of good and poor responders, using efficacy of PD-1-based therapy at 1 year, elucidated the role of antigen presentation in mediating response or resistance to anti-PD-1 blockade.
PXD021712	33256078	Hepatitis B Core Protein Is Post-Translationally Modified through K29-Linked Ubiquitination. 	Hepatitis B Core Protein is Posttranslationally Modified through K29-linked Ubiquitination	E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, HBc, Hepatitis B virus, Posttranslational modifications, Ubiquitin, Ubiquitination	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) core protein (HBc) plays many roles in the HBV life cycle, such as regulation of transcription, RNA encapsidation, reverse transcription, and viral release. To accomplish these functions, HBc interacts with many host proteins and undergoes different post-translational modifications (PTMs). One of the most common PTMs is ubiquitination, which was shown to change the function, stability, and intracellular localization of different viral proteins, but the role of HBc ubiquitination in the HBV life cycle remains unknown. Here, we found that HBc protein is post-translationally modified through K29-linked ubiquitination. We performed a series of co-immunoprecipitation experiments with wild-type HBc, lysine to arginine HBc mutants and wild-type ubiquitin, single lysine to arginine ubiquitin mutants, or single ubiquitin-accepting lysine constructs. We observed that HBc protein could be modified by ubiquitination in transfected as well as infected hepatoma cells. In addition, ubiquitination predominantly occurred on HBc lysine 7 and the preferred ubiquitin chain linkage was through ubiquitin-K29. Mass spectrometry (MS) analyses detected ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component N-recognin 5 (UBR5) as a potential E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in K29-linked ubiquitination. These findings emphasize that ubiquitination of HBc may play an important role in HBV life cycle.
PXD021187	33256395	A Versatile Isobaric Tag Enables Proteome Quantification in Data-Dependent and Data-Independent Acquisition Modes. 	A Versatile Isobaric Tag Enables Proteome Quantification in Data Dependent and Data Independent Acquisition Mode	data dependent acquisition, data-independent acquisition, isobaric labeling, quantitative proteomics	Quantifying proteins based on peptide-coupled reporter ions is a multiplexed quantitative strategy in proteomics that alleviates the problem of ratio distortion caused by peptide cofragmentation, as commonly observed in other reporter-ion-based approaches, such as TMT and iTRAQ. Data-independent acquisition (DIA) is an attractive alternative to data-dependent acquisition (DDA) due to its better reproducibility. While multiplexed labeling is widely used in DDA, it is rarely used in DIA, presumably because current approaches lead to more complex MS2 spectra, severe ratio distortion, or to a reduction in quantification accuracy and precision. Herein, we present a versatile acetyl-alanine-glycine (Ac-AG) tag that conceals quantitative information in isobarically labeled peptides and reveals it upon tandem MS in the form of peptide-coupled reporter ions. Since the peptide-coupled reporter ion is precursor-specific while fragment ions of the peptide backbone originating from different labeling channels are identical, the Ac-AG tag is compatible with both DDA and DIA. By isolating the monoisotopic peak of the precursor ion in DDA, intensities of the peptide-coupled reporter ions represent the relative ratios between constituent samples, whereas in DIA, the ratio can be inferred after deconvoluting the peptide-coupled reporter ion isotopes. The proteome quantification capability of the Ac-AG tag was demonstrated by triplex labeling of a yeast proteome spiked with bovine serum albumin (BSA) over a 10-fold dynamic range. Within this complex proteomics background, BSA spiked at 1:5:10 ratios was detected at ratios of 1.00:4.87:10.13 in DDA and 1.16:5.20:9.64 in DIA.
PXD017284	33257503	Prediction and Validation of Mouse Meiosis-Essential Genes Based on Spermatogenesis Proteome Dynamics. 	Mouse germ cell proteome from spermatogonia to round spermatids analysis by LC-MSMS	meiosis	The molecular mechanism associated with mammalian meiosis has yet to be fully explored, and one of the main reasons for this lack of exploration is that some meiosis-essential genes are still unknown. The profiling of gene expression during spermatogenesis has been performed in previous studies, yet few studies have aimed to find new functional genes. Since there is a huge gap between the number of genes that are able to be quantified and the number of genes that can be characterized by phenotype screening in one assay, an efficient method to rank quantified genes according to phenotypic relevance is of great importance. We proposed to rank genes by the probability of their function in mammalian meiosis based on global protein abundance using machine learning. Here, nine types of germ cells focusing on continual substages of meiosis prophase I were isolated, and the corresponding proteomes were quantified by high-resolution MS. By combining meiotic labels annotated from the mouse genomics informatics mouse knockout database and the spermatogenesis proteomics dataset, a supervised machine learning package, FuncProFinder (https://github.com/sjq111/FuncProFinder), was developed to rank meiosis-essential candidates. Of the candidates whose functions were unannotated, four of 10 genes with the top prediction scores, Zcwpw1, Tesmin, 1700102P08Rik, and Kctd19, were validated as meiosis-essential genes by knockout mouse models. Therefore, mammalian meiosis-essential genes could be efficiently predicted based on the protein abundance dataset, which provides a paradigm for other functional gene mining from a related abundance dataset.
PXD019757	33257663	Lkb1 suppresses amino acid-driven gluconeogenesis in the liver. 	Lkb1 suppresses amino acid-driven gluconeogenesis in the liver	LKB1, Q-exactive, amino acids, cachexia, gluconeogenesis, label-free quantification, liver, orbitrap Fusion, phosphoproteome, sarcopenia	Excessive glucose production by the liver is a key factor in the hyperglycemia observed in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Here, we highlight a novel role of liver kinase B1 (Lkb1) in this regulation. We show that mice with a hepatocyte-specific deletion of Lkb1 have higher levels of hepatic amino acid catabolism, driving gluconeogenesis. This effect is observed during both fasting and the postprandial period, identifying Lkb1 as a critical suppressor of postprandial hepatic gluconeogenesis. Hepatic Lkb1 deletion is associated with major changes in whole-body metabolism, leading to a lower lean body mass and, in the longer term, sarcopenia and cachexia, as a consequence of the diversion of amino acids to liver metabolism at the expense of muscle. Using genetic, proteomic and pharmacological approaches, we identify the aminotransferases and specifically Agxt as effectors of the suppressor function of Lkb1 in amino acid-driven gluconeogenesis.
PXD014380	33257812	Niche-adaptation in plant-associated Bacteroidetes favours specialisation in organic phosphorus mineralisation. 	Novel mechanisms for phosphate acquisition in abundant rhizosphere-dwelling Bacteroidetes	Bacteroidetes, Exoproteomics, Oilseed Rape, Rhizosphere	Bacteroidetes are abundant pathogen-suppressing members of the plant microbiome that contribute prominently to rhizosphere phosphorus mobilisation, a frequent growth-limiting nutrient in this niche. However, the genetic traits underpinning their success in this niche remain largely unknown, particularly regarding their phosphorus acquisition strategies. By combining cultivation, multi-layered omics and biochemical analyses we first discovered that all plant-associated Bacteroidetes express constitutive phosphatase activity, linked to the ubiquitous possession of a unique phosphatase, PafA. For the first time, we also reveal a subset of Bacteroidetes outer membrane SusCD-like complexes, typically associated with carbon acquisition, and several TonB-dependent transporters, are induced during Pi-depletion. Furthermore, in response to phosphate depletion, the plant-associated Flavobacterium used in this study expressed many previously characterised and novel proteins targeting organic phosphorus. Collectively, these enzymes exhibited superior phosphatase activity compared to plant-associated Pseudomonas spp. Importantly, several of the novel low-Pi-inducible phosphatases and transporters, belong to the Bacteroidetes auxiliary genome and are an adaptive genomic signature of plant-associated strains. In conclusion, niche adaptation to the plant microbiome thus appears to have resulted in the acquisition of unique phosphorus scavenging loci in Bacteroidetes, enhancing their phosphorus acquisition capabilities. These traits may enable their success in the rhizosphere and also present exciting avenues to develop sustainable agriculture.
PXD017703	33257825	diaPASEF: parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation combined with data-independent acquisition. 	Parallel accumulation - serial fragmentation combined with data-independent acquisition (diaPASEF)	DIA, PASEF, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, TIMS, benchmarking, ion mobility, machine learning	Data-independent acquisition modes isolate and concurrently fragment populations of different precursors by cycling through segments of a predefined precursor m/z range. Although these selection windows collectively cover the entire m/z range, overall, only a few per cent of all incoming ions are isolated for mass analysis. Here, we make use of the correlation of molecular weight and ion mobility in a trapped ion mobility device (timsTOF Pro) to devise a scan mode that samples up to 100% of the peptide precursor ion current in m/z and mobility windows. We extend an established targeted data extraction workflow by inclusion of the ion mobility dimension for both signal extraction and scoring and thereby increase the specificity for precursor identification. Data acquired from whole proteome digests and mixed organism samples demonstrate deep proteome coverage and a high degree of reproducibility as well as quantitative accuracy, even from 10 ng sample amounts.
PXD017276	33259127	Integrative proteomics reveals principles of dynamic phosphosignaling networks in human erythropoiesis. 	Proteomic dissection of human erythropoiesis reveals critical roles of kinases	EPOR, Human erythropoiesis, MAPK, cKIT, development, differentiation, hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, kinase, phosphoproteomics, red blood cells, signaling, systems biology	Human erythropoiesis is an exquisitely controlled multistep developmental process, and its dysregulation leads to numerous human diseases. Transcriptome and epigenome studies provided insights into system-wide regulation, but we currently lack a global mechanistic view on the dynamics of proteome and post-translational regulation coordinating erythroid maturation. We established a mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics workflow to quantify and dynamically track 7,400 proteins and 27,000 phosphorylation sites of five distinct maturation stages of in vitro reconstituted erythropoiesis of CD34(+) HSPCs. Our data reveal developmental regulation through drastic proteome remodeling across stages of erythroid maturation encompassing most protein classes. This includes various orchestrated changes in solute carriers indicating adjustments to altered metabolic requirements. To define the distinct proteome of each maturation stage, we developed a computational deconvolution approach which revealed stage-specific marker proteins. The dynamic phosphoproteomes combined with a kinome-targeted CRISPR/Cas9 screen uncovered coordinated networks of erythropoietic kinases and pinpointed downregulation of c-Kit/MAPK signaling axis as key driver of maturation. Our system-wide view establishes the functional dynamic of complex phosphosignaling networks and regulation through proteome remodeling in erythropoiesis.
PXD022078	33259205	MS-Based in Situ Proteomics Reveals AMPylation of Host Proteins during Bacterial Infection. 	MS-based in situ proteomics reveals AMPylation of host proteins during bacterial infection	HeLa, Infection, V. parahaemolyticus	Bacteria utilize versatile strategies to propagate infections within human cells, e.g., by the injection of effector proteins, which alter crucial signaling pathways. One class of such virulence-associated proteins is involved in the AMPylation of eukaryotic Rho GTPases with devastating effects on viability. In order to get an inventory of AMPylated proteins, several technologies have been developed. However, as they were designed for the analysis of cell lysates, knowledge about AMPylation targets in living cells is largely lacking. Here, we implement a chemical-proteomic method for deciphering AMPylated host proteins in situ during bacterial infection. HeLa cells treated with a previously established cell permeable pronucleotide probe (pro-N6pA) were infected with Vibrio parahaemolyticus, and modified host proteins were identified upon probe enrichment and LC-MS/MS analysis. Three already known targets of the AMPylator VopS-Rac1, RhoA, and Cdc42-could be confirmed, and several other Rho GTPases were additionally identified. These hits were validated in comparative studies with V. parahaemolyticus wild type and a mutant producing an inactive VopS (H348A). The method further allowed to decipher the sites of modification and facilitated a time-dependent analysis of AMPylation during infection. Overall, the methodology provides a reliable detection of host AMPylation in situ and thus a versatile tool in monitoring infection processes.
PXD021816	33260855	Dichloromethane Degradation Pathway from Unsequenced Hyphomicrobium sp. MC8b Rapidly Explored by Pan-Proteomics. 	Proteomics of unsequenced Hyphomicrobium sp. MC8b strain explored by pan-proteomics	Hyphomicrobium, differential proteomics, pan-proteomics, shotgun proteomics	Several bacteria are able to degrade the major industrial solvent dichloromethane (DCM) by using the conserved dehalogenase DcmA, the only system for DCM degradation characterised at the sequence level so far. Using differential proteomics, we rapidly identified key determinants of DCM degradation for Hyphomicrobium sp. MC8b, an unsequenced facultative methylotrophic DCM-degrading strain. For this, we designed a pan-proteomics database comprising the annotated genome sequences of 13 distinct Hyphomicrobium strains. Compared to growth with methanol, growth with DCM induces drastic changes in the proteome of strain MC8b. Dichloromethane dehalogenase DcmA was detected by differential pan-proteomics, but only with poor sequence coverage, suggesting atypical characteristics of the DCM dehalogenation system in this strain. More peptides were assigned to DcmA by error-tolerant search, warranting subsequent sequencing of the genome of strain MC8b, which revealed a highly divergent set of dcm genes in this strain. This suggests that the dcm enzymatic system is less strongly conserved than previously believed, and that substantial molecular evolution of dcm genes has occurred beyond their horizontal transfer in the bacterial domain. Our study showed the power of pan-proteomics for quick characterization of new strains belonging to branches of the Tree of Life that are densely genome-sequenced.
PXD022391	33260872	Discovery of Candidate Stool Biomarker Proteins for Biliary Atresia Using Proteome Analysis by Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry. 	Human stool proteome analysis from patients with biliary atresia	DIA-MS, biliary atresia, feces, stool	Biliary atresia (BA) is a destructive inflammatory obliterative cholangiopathy of the neonate that affects various parts of the bile duct. If early diagnosis followed by Kasai portoenterostomy is not performed, progressive liver cirrhosis frequently leads to liver transplantation in the early stage of life. Therefore, prompt diagnosis is necessary for the rescue of BA patients. However, the prompt diagnosis of BA remains challenging because specific and reliable biomarkers for BA are currently unavailable. In this study, we discovered potential biomarkers for BA using deep proteome analysis by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS). Four patients with BA and three patients with neonatal cholestasis of other etiologies (non-BA) were recruited for stool proteome analysis. Among the 2110 host-derived proteins detected in their stools, 49 proteins were significantly higher in patients with BA and 54 proteins were significantly lower. These varying stool protein levels in infants with BA can provide potential biomarkers for BA. As demonstrated in this study, the deep proteome analysis of stools has great potential not only in detecting new stool biomarkers for BA but also in elucidating the pathophysiology of BA and other pediatric diseases, especially in the field of pediatric gastroenterology.
PXD021640	33260959	Profiling the Murine SUMO Proteome in Response to Cardiac Ischemia and Reperfusion Injury. 	Proteome and SUMOylome of mouse heart tissue after ischemia and reperfusion	Ischemia, SUMO	SUMOylation is a reversible posttranslational modification pathway catalyzing the conjugation of small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) proteins to lysine residues of distinct target proteins. SUMOylation modifies a wide variety of cellular regulators thereby affecting a multitude of key processes in a highly dynamic manner. The SUMOylation pathway displays a hallmark in cellular stress-adaption, such as heat or redox stress. It has been proposed that enhanced cellular SUMOylation protects the brain during ischemia, however, little is known about the specific regulation of the SUMO system and the potential target proteins during cardiac ischemia and reperfusion injury (I/R). By applying left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery ligation and reperfusion in mice, we detect dynamic changes in the overall cellular SUMOylation pattern correlating with decreased SUMO deconjugase activity during I/R injury. Further, unbiased system-wide quantitative SUMO-proteomics identified a sub-group of SUMO targets exhibiting significant alterations in response to cardiac I/R. Notably, transcription factors that control hypoxia- and angiogenesis-related gene expression programs, exhibit altered SUMOylation during ischemic stress adaptation. Moreover, several components of the ubiquitin proteasome system undergo dynamic changes in SUMO conjugation during cardiac I/R suggesting an involvement of SUMO signaling in protein quality control and proteostasis in the ischemic heart. Altogether, our study reveals regulated candidate SUMO target proteins in the mouse heart, which might be important in coping with hypoxic/proteotoxic stress during cardiac I/R injury.
PXD021350	33263003	Cytotoxicity of Snake Venoms and Cytotoxins From Two Southeast Asian Cobras (Naja sumatrana, Naja kaouthia): Exploration of Anticancer Potential, Selectivity, and Cell Death Mechanism. 	Protein identification of cytotoxins isolated from Malaysian Naja sumatrana and Thai Naja kaouthia	Cytotoxin, LCMS/MS, equatorial spitting cobra, monocled cobra	Venoms of cobras (Naja spp.) contain high abundances of cytotoxins, which contribute to tissue necrosis in cobra envenomation. The tissue-necrotizing activity of cobra cytotoxins, nevertheless, indicates anticancer potentials. This study set to explore the anticancer properties of the venoms and cytotoxins from Naja sumatrana (equatorial spitting cobra) and Naja kaouthia (monocled cobra), two highly venomous species in Southeast Asia. The cytotoxicity, selectivity, and cell death mechanisms of their venoms and cytotoxins (NS-CTX from N. sumatrana: NS-CTX; N. kaouthia: NK-CTX) were elucidated in human lung (A549), prostate (PC-3), and breast (MCF-7) cancer cell lines. Cytotoxins were purified through a sequential fractionation approach using cation-exchange chromatography, followed by C18 reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to homogeneity validated with sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and identified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LCMS/MS). The cobra venoms and their respective cytotoxins exhibited concentration-dependent growth inhibitory effects in all cell lines tested, with the cytotoxins being more potent compared to the corresponding whole venoms. NS-CTX and NK-CTX are, respectively, P-type and S-type isoforms of cytotoxin, based on the amino acid sequences as per LCMS/MS analysis. Both cytotoxins exhibited differential cytotoxic effects in the cell lines tested, with NS-CTX (P-type cytotoxin) being significantly more potent in inhibiting the growth of the cancer cells. Both cytotoxins demonstrated promising selectivity only for the A549 lung cancer cell line (selectivity index = 2.17 and 2.26, respectively) but not in prostate (PC-3) and breast (MCF-7) cancer cell lines (selectivity index < 1). Flow cytometry revealed that the A549 lung cancer cells treated with NS-CTX and NK-CTX underwent necrosis predominantly. Meanwhile, the cytotoxins induced mainly caspase-independent late apoptosis in the prostate (PC-3) and breast (MCF-7) cancer cells lines but lacked selectivity. The findings revealed the limitations and challenges that could be faced during the development of new cancer therapy from cobra cytotoxins, notwithstanding their potent anticancer effects. Further studies should aim to overcome these impediments to unleash the anticancer potentials of the cytotoxins.
PXD020342	33263984	Automated Capillary Isoelectric Focusing-Tandem Mass Spectrometry for Qualitative and Quantitative Top-Down Proteomics. 	Automated capillary isoelectric focusing-tandem mass spectrometry for top-down proteomics	endogenous hormone proteoforms/gel-free 2D-PAGE/multi-level proteomics/ sexual dimorphism/zebrafish brain	Top-down proteomics (TDP) aims to delineate proteomes in a proteoform-specific manner, which is vital for accurately understanding protein function in cellular processes. It requires high-capacity separation of proteoforms before mass spectrometry (MS) and tandem MS (MS/MS). Capillary isoelectric focusing (cIEF)-MS has been recognized as a useful tool for TDP in the 1990s because cIEF is capable of high-resolution separation of proteoforms. Previous cIEF-MS studies concentrated on measuring the protein's mass without MS/MS, impeding the confident proteoform identification in complex samples and the accurate localization of post-translational modifications on proteoforms. Herein, for the first time, we present automated cIEF-MS/MS-based TDP for large-scale delineation of proteoforms in complex proteomes. Single-shot cIEF-MS/MS identified 711 proteoforms from an Escherichia coli (E. coli) proteome consuming only nanograms of proteins. Coupling two-dimensional size-exclusion chromatography (SEC)-cIEF to ESI-MS/MS enabled the identification of nearly 2000 proteoforms from the E. coli proteome. Label-free quantitative TDP of zebrafish male and female brains using SEC-cIEF-MS/MS quantified thousands of proteoforms and revealed sex-dependent proteoform profiles in brains. Particularly, we discovered several proteolytic proteoforms of pro-opiomelanocortin and prodynorphin with significantly higher abundance in male zebrafish brains as potential endogenous hormone proteoforms. Multilevel quantitative proteomics (TDP and bottom-up proteomics) of the brains revealed that the majority of proteoforms having statistically significant difference in abundance between genders showed no abundance difference at the protein group level. This work represents the first multilevel quantitative proteomics study of sexual dimorphism of the brain.
PXD018926	33264090	RNF41 regulates the damage recognition receptor Clec9A and antigen cross-presentation in mouse dendritic cells. 	RNF41 regulation of the dendritic cell receptor Clec9A	Clec9A, E3 ubiquitin ligase, RNF41, ubiquitination	The dendritic cell receptor Clec9A facilitates processing of dead cell-derived antigens for cross-presentation and the induction of effective CD8(+) T cell immune responses. Here, we show that this process is regulated by E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF41 and define a new ubiquitin-mediated mechanism for regulation of Clec9A, reflecting the unique properties of Clec9A as a receptor specialized for delivery of antigens for cross-presentation. We reveal RNF41 is a negative regulator of Clec9A and the cross-presentation of dead cell-derived antigens by mouse dendritic cells. Intriguingly, RNF41 regulates the downstream fate of Clec9A by directly binding and ubiquitinating the extracellular domains of Clec9A. At steady-state, RNF41 ubiquitination of Clec9A facilitates interactions with ER-associated proteins and degradation machinery to control Clec9A levels. However, Clec9A interactions are altered following dead cell uptake to favor antigen presentation. These findings provide important insights into antigen cross-presentation and have implications for development of approaches to modulate immune responses.
PXD019458	33264461	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics reveal key regulators associated with cytostatic effect of amino acid transporter LAT1 inhibitor. 	Integrated proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses reveal the broad and complex influence by inhibition of L-type amino acid transporter-1 in biliary tract carcinoma cells	IMAC, JPH203, LAT1	L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1) is highly expressed in various cancers and plays important roles not only in the amino acid uptake necessary for cancer growth but also in cellular signaling. Recent research studies have reported anticancer effects of LAT1 inhibitors and demonstrated their potential for cancer therapy. Here, we characterized the proteome and phosphoproteome in LAT1-inhibited cancer cells. We used JPH203, a selective LAT1 inhibitor, and performed tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics on four biliary tract cancer cell lines sensitive to JPH203. Our analysis identified hundreds to thousands of differentially expressed proteins and phosphorylated sites, demonstrating the broad influence of LAT1 inhibition. Our findings showed various functional pathways altered by LAT1 inhibition, and provided possible regulators and key kinases in LAT1-inhibited cells. Comparison of these changes among cell lines provides insights into general pathways and regulators associated with LAT1 inhibition and particularly suggests the importance of cell cycle-related pathways and kinases. Moreover, we evaluated the anticancer effects of the combinations of JPH203 with cell cycle-related kinase inhibitors and demonstrated their potential for cancer therapy. This is the first study providing the proteome-wide scope of both protein expression and phosphorylation signaling perturbed by LAT1 inhibition in cancer cells.
PXD010111	33264611	The Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase Complex Has an Asymmetric, Dynamic, and Modular Architecture. 	Crosslinking MS to elucidate the Architecture of the Nucleosome Remodelling and Deacetylase (NuRD) complex	NuRD, crosslinking MS, structural proteomics	The nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complex is essential for metazoan development but has been refractory to biochemical analysis. We present an integrated analysis of the native mammalian NuRD complex, combining quantitative mass spectrometry, cross-linking, protein biochemistry, and electron microscopy to define the architecture of the complex. NuRD is built from a 2:2:4 (MTA, HDAC, and RBBP) deacetylase module and a 1:1:1 (MBD, GATAD2, and Chromodomain-Helicase-DNA-binding [CHD]) remodeling module, and the complex displays considerable structural dynamics. The enigmatic GATAD2 controls the asymmetry of the complex and directly recruits the CHD remodeler. The MTA-MBD interaction acts as a point of functional switching, with the transcriptional regulator PWWP2A competing with MBD for binding to the MTA-HDAC-RBBP subcomplex. Overall, our data address the long-running controversy over NuRD stoichiometry, provide imaging of the mammalian NuRD complex, and establish the biochemical mechanism by which PWWP2A can regulate NuRD composition.
PXD018137	33264891	Tween 20 regulate the function and structure of transmembrane proteins of Bacillus cereus: Promoting transmembrane transport of fluoranthene. 	Surfactants regulate the function and structure of transmembrane protein of Bacillus cereuspromote transmembrane transport of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)	PAHs, iTRAQ, surfactant, transmembrane transport	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are degraded by the highly efficient degrading bacterium Bacillus cereus. Transmembrane transport is highly important in PAH degradation by bacteria. Surfactants are the key substances that promote PAH adsorption, uptake and transmembrane transport by Bacillus cereus. In this study, the isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) approach was used for high-throughput screening of key functional proteins during transmembrane fluoranthene transport by Bacillus cereus treated with Tween 20. In addition, SWISS-MODEL was used to simulate the tertiary structures of key transmembrane proteins and analyze how Tween 20 promotes transmembrane transport. Transmembrane fluoranthene transport into Bacillus cereus requires transmembrane proteins and energy. Tween 20 was observed to improve bacterial motility and transmembrane protein expression. The interior of representative transmembrane proteins is mostly composed of hydrophobic beta-sheets while amphipathic alpha-helices are primarily distributed at their periphery. The primary reason for this configuration may be alpha-helices promote the aggregation of surfactants and the phospholipid bilayer and the beta-sheets promote surfactant insertion into the phospholipid bilayer to enhance PAH transport into Bacillus cereus. Investigating the effect of Tween 20 on Bacillus cereus transmembrane proteins during transmembrane fluoranthene transport is important for understanding the mechanism of PAH degradation by microorganisms.
PXD019084	33266084	Novel Antioxidant Therapy with the Immediate Precursor to Glutathione, gamma-Glutamylcysteine (GGC), Ameliorates LPS-Induced Cellular Stress in In Vitro 3D-Differentiated Airway Model from Primary Cystic Fibrosis Human Bronchial Cells. 	gamma-glutamylcysteine (GGC) supplementation and p-LPS challenge causes distinct proteomic changes to primary airway epithelial cell models of Cystic Fibrosis	LPS, airway epithelial cells, cystic fibrosis, glutathione, oxidative stress, qLC-MS/MS, gamma-glutamylcysteine	Systemic glutathione deficiency, inflammation, and oxidative stress are hallmarks of cystic fibrosis (CF), an inherited disease that causes persistent lung infections and severe damage to the respiratory system and many of the body organs. Improvements to current antioxidant therapeutic strategies are needed. The dietary supplement, gamma-glutamylcysteine (GGC), which is the immediate precursor to glutathione, rapidly boosts cellular glutathione levels following a single dose in healthy individuals. Efficacy of GGC against oxidative stress induced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which is a common and chronic pathogen infecting lungs of CF patients, remains unassessed. Primary mucocilliary differentiated airway (bronchial and/or nasal) epithelial cells were created from four individuals with CF. Airway oxidative stress and inflammation was induced by P. aeruginosa lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Parameters including global proteomics alterations, cell redox state (glutathione, oxidative stress), pro-inflammatory mediators (IL-8, IDO-1), and cellular health (membrane integrity, stress granule formation, cell metabolic viability) were assayed under six experimental conditions: (1) Mock, (2) LPS-challenged (3) therapeutic, (4) prophylactic (5) therapeutic and prophylactic and (6) GGC alone. Proteomic analysis identified perturbation of several pathways related to cellular respiration and stress responses upon LPS challenge. Most of these were resolved when cells were treated with GGC. While GGC did not resolve LPS-induced IL-8 and IDO-1 activity, it effectively attenuated LPS-induced oxidative stress and stress granule formation, while significantly increasing total intracellular glutathione levels, metabolic viability and improving epithelial cell barrier integrity. Both therapeutic and prophylactic treatments were successful. Together, these findings indicate that GGC has therapeutic potential for treatment and prevention of oxidative stress-related damage to airways in cystic fibrosis.
PXD020129	33267867	Shotgun proteomics coupled to nanoparticle-based biomarker enrichment reveals a novel panel of extracellular matrix proteins as candidate serum protein biomarkers for early-stage breast cancer detection. 	Proteomics analysis of serum from patients with invasive ductal carcinoma	invasive ductal carcinoma, mammography, nanoparticles, protein enrichment, serum	BACKGROUND: The lack of specificity and high degree of false positive and false negative rates when using mammographic screening for detecting early-stage breast cancer is a critical issue. Blood-based molecular assays that could be used in adjunct with mammography for increased specificity and sensitivity could have profound clinical impact. Our objective was to discover and independently verify a panel of candidate blood-based biomarkers that could identify the earliest stages of breast cancer and complement current mammographic screening approaches. METHODS: We used affinity hydrogel nanoparticles coupled with LC-MS/MS analysis to enrich and analyze low-abundance proteins in serum samples from 20 patients with invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) breast cancer and 20 female control individuals with positive mammograms and benign pathology at biopsy. We compared these results to those obtained from five cohorts of individuals diagnosed with cancer in organs other than breast (ovarian, lung, prostate, and colon cancer, as well as melanoma) to establish IDC-specific protein signatures. Twenty-four IDC candidate biomarkers were then verified by multiple reaction monitoring (LC-MRM) in an independent validation cohort of 60 serum samples specifically including earliest-stage breast cancer and benign controls (19 early-stage (T1a) IDC and 41 controls). RESULTS: In our discovery set, 56 proteins were increased in the serum samples from IDC patients, and 32 of these proteins were specific to IDC. Verification of a subset of these proteins in an independent cohort of early-stage T1a breast cancer yielded a panel of 4 proteins, ITGA2B (integrin subunit alpha IIb), FLNA (Filamin A), RAP1A (Ras-associated protein-1A), and TLN-1 (Talin-1), which classified breast cancer patients with 100% sensitivity and 85% specificity (AUC of 0.93). CONCLUSIONS: Using a nanoparticle-based protein enrichment technology, we identified and verified a highly specific and sensitive protein signature indicative of early-stage breast cancer with no false positives when assessing benign and inflammatory controls. These markers have been previously reported in cell-ECM interaction and tumor microenvironment biology. Further studies with larger cohorts are needed to evaluate whether this biomarker panel improves the positive predictive value of mammography for breast cancer detection.
PXD018145	33268777	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry captures distinct dynamics upon substrate and inhibitor binding to a transporter. 	Distinct dynamics upon substrate and inhibitor binding to a secondary transporter	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), conformational dynamics, major facilitator superfamily, membrane proteins, molecular dynamics simulations, molecular transport, secondary transporters	Proton-coupled transporters use transmembrane proton gradients to power active transport of nutrients inside the cell. High-resolution structures often fail to capture the coupling between proton and ligand binding, and conformational changes associated with transport. We combine HDX-MS with mutagenesis and MD simulations to dissect the molecular mechanism of the prototypical transporter XylE. We show that protonation of a conserved aspartate triggers conformational transition from outward-facing to inward-facing state. This transition only occurs in the presence of substrate xylose, while the inhibitor glucose locks the transporter in the outward-facing state. MD simulations corroborate the experiments by showing that only the combination of protonation and xylose binding, and not glucose, sets up the transporter for conformational switch. Overall, we demonstrate the unique ability of HDX-MS to distinguish between the conformational dynamics of inhibitor and substrate binding, and show that a specific allosteric coupling between substrate binding and protonation is a key step to initiate transport.
PXD021791	33269909	Tailored Cofactor Traps for the in Situ Detection of Hemithioacetal-Forming Pyridoxal Kinases. 	Tailored cofactor traps for the in situ detection of hemithioacetal-forming pyridoxal kinases	E. coli, E. faecalis, P. aeruginosa, Pyridoxal, Pyridoxal kinase, S. aureus	Pyridoxal kinases (PLK) are crucial enzymes for the biosynthesis of pyridoxal phosphate, an important cofactor in a plethora of enzymatic reactions. The evolution of these enzymes resulted in different catalytic designs. In addition to the active site, the importance of a cysteine, embedded within a distant flexible lid region, was recently demonstrated. This cysteine forms a hemithioacetal with the pyridoxal aldehyde and is essential for catalysis. Despite the prevalence of these enzymes in various organisms, no tools were yet available to study the relevance of this lid residue. Here, we introduce pyridoxal probes, each equipped with an electrophilic trapping group in place of the aldehyde to target PLK reactive lid cysteines as a mimic of hemithioacetal formation. The addition of alkyne handles placed at two different positions within the pyridoxal structure facilitates enrichment of PLKs from living cells. Interestingly, depending on the position, the probes displayed a preference for either Gram-positive or Gram-negative PLK enrichment. By applying the cofactor traps, we were able to validate not only previously investigated Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis PLKs but also Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa PLKs, unravelling a crucial role of the lid cysteine for catalysis. Overall, our tailored probes facilitated a reliable readout of lid cysteine containing PLKs, qualifying them as chemical tools for mining further diverse proteomes for this important enzyme class.
PXD021711	33271902	Beyond Melanin: Proteomics Reveals Virulence-Related Proteins in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and Paracoccidioides lutzii Yeast Cells Grown in the Presence of L-Dihydroxyphenylalanine. 	Proteomics reveals virulence-related proteins in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and Paracoccidioides lutzii yeast cells grown in the presence of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine	L-dihydroxyphenylalanine, Paracoccidioides, melanin, virulence	Species of the genus Paracoccidioides cause a systemic infection in human patients. Yeast cells of Paracoccidioides spp. produce melanin in the presence of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine and during infection, which may impact the pathogen's survival in the host. To better understand the metabolic changes that occur in melanized Paracoccidioides spp. cells, a proteomic approach was performed to compare melanized and non-melanized Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and Paracoccidioides lutzii yeast cells. Melanization was induced using L-dihydroxyphenylalanine as a precursor, and quantitative proteomics were performed using reversed-phase nano-chromatography coupled to high-resolution mass spectrometry. When comparing melanized versus non-melanized cells, 1006 and 582 differentially abundant/detected proteins were identified for P. brasiliensis and P. lutzii, respectively. Functional enrichment and comparative analysis revealed 30 important KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathways in melanized P. brasiliensis and 18 in P. lutzii, while differentially abundant proteins from non-melanized cells from these species were involved in 21 and 25 enriched pathways, respectively. Melanized cells presented an abundance of additional virulence-associated proteins, such as phospholipase, proteases, superoxide dis-mutases, heat-shock proteins, adhesins, and proteins related to vesicular transport. The results suggest that L-dihydroxyphenylalanine increases the virulence of Paracoccidioides spp. through complex mechanisms involving not only melanin but other virulence factors as well.
PXD021131	33273015	Hyper-truncated Asn355- and Asn391-glycans modulate the activity of neutrophil granule myeloperoxidase. 	The Bimodal Sugar Code of Neutrophil Myeloperoxidase	: Myeloperoxidase, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosamine, N-glycosylation, activity, biosynthesis, ceruloplasmin, degranulation, granule, granulopoiesis, inhibition, neutrophil	Myeloperoxidase (MPO) plays essential roles in neutrophil-mediated immunity via the generation of reactive oxidation products. Complex carbohydrates decorate MPO at discrete sites, but their functional relevance remains elusive. To this end, we have characterised the structure-biosynthesis-activity relationship of neutrophil MPO (nMPO). Mass spectrometry demonstrated that nMPO carries both characteristic under-processed and hyper-truncated glycans. Occlusion of the Asn355/Asn391-glycosylation sites and the Asn323-/Asn483-glycans, located in the MPO dimerisation zone, was found to affect the local glycan processing, thereby providing a molecular basis of the site-specific nMPO glycosylation. Native mass spectrometry, mass photometry and glycopeptide profiling revealed significant molecular complexity of diprotomeric nMPO arising from heterogeneous glycosylation, oxidation, chlorination and polypeptide truncation variants and a previously unreported low-abundance monoprotomer. Longitudinal profiling of maturing, mature, granule-separated and pathogen-stimulated neutrophils demonstrated that nMPO is dynamically expressed during granulopoiesis, unevenly distributed across granules and degranulated upon activation. We also show that proMPO-to-MPO maturation occurs during early/mid-stage granulopoiesis. While similar global MPO glycosylation was observed across conditions, the conserved Asn355-/Asn391-sites displayed elevated glycan hyper-truncation, which correlated with higher enzyme activities of MPO in distinct granule populations. Enzymatic trimming of the Asn355-/Asn391-glycans recapitulated the activity gain and showed that nMPO carrying hyper-truncated glycans at these positions exhibits increased thermal stability, polypeptide accessibility and ceruloplasmin-mediated inhibition potential relative to native nMPO. Finally, molecular modelling revealed that hyper-truncated Asn355-glycans positioned in the MPO-ceruloplasmin interface are critical for uninterrupted inhibition. Here, through an innovative and comprehensive approach, we report novel functional roles of MPO glycans, providing new insight into neutrophil-mediated immunity.
PXD013605	33273114	Hierarchical routing in carbon metabolism favors iron-scavenging strategy in iron-deficient soil Pseudomonas species. 	Co-utilization of sugar and aromatic carbons in Pseudomonas putida	Pseudomonas, bacterial metabolism, benzoate, fluxomics, glucose, metabolic flux, metabolic regulation, metabolomics, mixed-carbon metabolism	High-affinity iron (Fe) scavenging compounds, or siderophores, are widely employed by soil bacteria to survive scarcity in bioavailable Fe. Siderophore biosynthesis relies on cellular carbon metabolism, despite reported decrease in both carbon uptake and Fe-containing metabolic proteins in Fe-deficient cells. Given this paradox, the metabolic network required to sustain the Fe-scavenging strategy is poorly understood. Here, through multiple (13)C-metabolomics experiments with Fe-replete and Fe-limited cells, we uncover how soil Pseudomonas species reprogram their metabolic pathways to prioritize siderophore biosynthesis. Across the three species investigated (Pseudomonas putida KT2440, Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5, and Pseudomonas putida S12), siderophore secretion is higher during growth on gluconeogenic substrates than during growth on glycolytic substrates. In response to Fe limitation, we capture decreased flux toward the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle during the metabolism of glycolytic substrates but, due to carbon recycling to the TCA cycle via enhanced anaplerosis, the metabolism of gluconeogenic substrates results in an increase in both siderophore secretion (up to threefold) and Fe extraction (up to sixfold) from soil minerals. During simultaneous feeding on the different substrate types, Fe deficiency triggers a hierarchy in substrate utilization, which is facilitated by changes in protein abundances for substrate uptake and initial catabolism. Rerouted metabolism further promotes favorable fluxes in the TCA cycle and the gluconeogenesis-anaplerosis nodes, despite decrease in several proteins in these pathways, to meet carbon and energy demands for siderophore precursors in accordance with increased proteins for siderophore biosynthesis. Hierarchical carbon metabolism thus serves as a critical survival strategy during the metal nutrient deficiency.
PXD034582	33273458	Establishing a mass spectrometry-based system for rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2 in large clinical sample cohorts. 	Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 variants by proteomics	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, variants	The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is pressing public health systems around the world, and large population testing is a key step to control this pandemic disease. Here, we develop a high-throughput targeted proteomics assay to detect SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein peptides directly from nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs. A modified magnetic particle-based proteomics approach implemented on a robotic liquid handler enables fully automated preparation of 96 samples within 4 hours. A TFC-MS system allows multiplexed analysis of 4 samples within 10 min, enabling the processing of more than 500 samples per day. We validate this method qualitatively (Tier 3) and quantitatively (Tier 1) using 985 specimens previously analyzed by real-time RT-PCR, and detect up to 84% of the positive cases with up to 97% specificity. The presented strategy has high sample stability and should be considered as an option for SARS-CoV-2 testing in large populations.
PXD019142	33275901	Mapping the Degradable Kinome Provides a Resource for Expedited Degrader Development. 	Mapping the Degradable Kinome: A Resource for Expedited Degrader Development	E3 ligase., IMiD, Kinase, PROTAC, Ubiquitin, Ubiquitin proteasome system, degrader, targeted degradation	Targeted protein degradation (TPD) refers to the use of small molecules to induce ubiquitin-dependent degradation of proteins. TPD is of interest in drug development, as it can address previously inaccessible targets. However, degrader discovery and optimization remains an inefficient process due to a lack of understanding of the relative importance of the key molecular events required to induce target degradation. Here, we use chemo-proteomics to annotate the degradable kinome. Our expansive dataset provides chemical leads for ~200 kinases and demonstrates that the current practice of starting from the highest potency binder is an ineffective method for discovering active compounds. We develop multitargeted degraders to answer fundamental questions about the ubiquitin proteasome system, uncovering that kinase degradation is p97 dependent. This work will not only fuel kinase degrader discovery, but also provides a blueprint for evaluating targeted degradation across entire gene families to accelerate understanding of TPD beyond the kinome.
PXD019949	33275945	Eukaryote-conserved histone post-translational modification landscape in Giardia duodenalis revealed by mass spectrometry. 	Protein posttranslational modifications of Giardia histones	Acetylation, Chromatin, Giardia, Histones, Methylation, Phosphorylation	Diarrheal disease caused by Giardia duodenalis is highly prevalent, causing over 200 million cases globally each year. The processes that drive parasite virulence, host immune evasion and transmission involve coordinated gene expression and have been linked to epigenetic regulation. Epigenetic regulatory systems are eukaryote-conserved, including in deep branching excavates such as Giardia, with several studies already implicating histone post-translational modifications in regulation of its pathogenesis and life cycle. However, further insights into Giardia chromatin dynamics have been hindered by a lack of site-specific knowledge of histone modifications. Using mass spectrometry, we have provided the first known molecular map of histone methylation, acetylation and phosphorylation modifications in Giardia core histones. We have identified over 50 previously unreported histone modifications including sites with established roles in epigenetic regulation, and co-occurring modifications indicative of post-translational modification crosstalk. These demonstrate conserved histone modifications in Giardia which are equivalent to many other eukaryotes, and suggest that similar epigenetic mechanisms are in place in this parasite. Further, we used sequence, domain and structural homology to annotate putative histone enzyme networks in Giardia, highlighting representative chromatin modifiers which appear sufficient for identified sites, particularly those from H3 and H4 variants. This study is to our knowledge the first and most comprehensive, complete and accurate view of Giardia histone post-translational modifications to date, and a substantial step towards understanding their associations in parasite development and virulence.
PXD015114	33276191	Community-based network analyses reveal emerging connectivity patterns of protein-protein interactions in murine melanoma secretome. 	Emerging connectivity patterns of protein-protein interaction networks in melanoma secretome: insights into the cancer interactome	TGF beta., complex network analysis, interactome, melanoma, secretome	Protein-protein interaction networks (PPINs) are static representations of protein connections in which topological features such as subgraphs (communities) may contain proteins functionally related, revealing an additional layer of interactome complexity. We created two PPINs from the secretomes of a paired set of murine melanocytes (a normal melanocyte and its transformed phenotype). Community structures, identified by a graph clustering algorithm, resulted in the identification of subgraphs in both networks. Interestingly, the underlying structure of such communities revealed shared and exclusive proteins (core and exclusive nodes, respectively), in addition to proteins that changed their location within each community (rewired nodes). Functional enrichment analysis of core nodes revealed conserved biological functions in both networks whereas exclusive and rewired nodes in the tumoral phenotype network were enriched in cancer-related processes, including TGFbeta signaling. We found a remarkable shift in the tumoral interactome, resulting in an emerging pattern which was driven by the presence of exclusive nodes and may represent functional network motifs. Our findings suggest that the rearrangement in the tumoral interactome may be correlated with the malignant transformation of melanocytes associated with substrate adhesion impediment. The interactions found in core and new/rewired nodes might potentially be targeted for therapeutic intervention in melanoma treatment. SIGNIFICANCE: Malignant transformation is a result of synergistic action of multiple molecular factors in which genetic alterations as well as protein expression play paramount roles. During oncogenesis, cellular crosstalk through the secretion of soluble mediators modulates the phenotype of transformed cells which ultimately enables them to successfully disrupt important signaling pathways, including those related to cell growth and proliferation. Therefore, in this work we profiled the secretomes of a paired set of normal and transformed phenotypes of a murine melanocyte. After assembling the two interactomes, clusters of functionally related proteins (network communities) were observed as well as emerging patterns of network rewiring which may represent an interactome signature of transformed cells. In summary, the significance of this study relies on the understanding of the repertoire of 'normal' and 'tumoral' secretomes and, more importantly, the set of interacting proteins (the interactome) in both of these conditions, which may reveal key components that might be potentially targeted for therapeutic intervention.
PXD022092	33276480	Proteomic Characterization of Synaptosomes from Human Substantia Nigra Indicates Altered Mitochondrial Translation in Parkinson's Disease. 	Proteomic characterization of synaptosomes from human substantia nigra indicates altered  mitochondrial translation in Parkinson's disease	Parkinsons disease, subcellular fractionation	The pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the loss of neuromelanin-containing dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Additionally, numerous studies indicate an altered synaptic function during disease progression. To gain new insights into the molecular processes underlying the alteration of synaptic function in PD, a proteomic study was performed. Therefore, synaptosomes were isolated by density gradient centrifugation from SNpc tissue of individuals at advanced PD stages (N = 5) as well as control subjects free of pathology (N = 5) followed by mass spectrometry-based analysis. In total, 362 proteins were identified and assigned to the synaptosomal core proteome. This core proteome comprised all proteins expressed within the synapses without regard to data analysis software, gender, age, or disease. The differential analysis between control subjects and PD cases revealed that CD9 antigen was overrepresented and fourteen proteins, among them Thymidine kinase 2 (TK2), mitochondrial, 39S ribosomal protein L37, neurolysin, and Methionine-tRNA ligase (MARS2) were underrepresented in PD suggesting an alteration in mitochondrial translation within synaptosomes.
PXD022626	33276600	An Update of the Virion Proteome of Kaposi Sarcoma-Associated Herpesvirus. 	An Updated overview of the Virion Proteome of Kaposi Sarcoma Associated Herpesvirus	HHV8 Bottom-up Proteomics	The virion proteins of Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) were initially characterized in 2005 in two separate studies that combined the detection of 24 viral proteins and a few cellular components via LC-MS/MS or MALDI-TOF. Despite considerable advances in the sensitivity and specificity of mass spectrometry instrumentation in recent years, leading to significantly higher yields in detections, the KSHV virion proteome has not been revisited. In this study, we have re-examined the protein composition of purified KSHV virions via ultra-high resolution Qq time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UHR-QqTOF). Our results confirm the detection of all previously reported virion proteins, in addition to 17 other viral proteins, some of which have been characterized as virion-associated using other methods, and 10 novel proteins identified as virion-associated for the first time in this study. These results add KSHV ORF9, ORF23, ORF35, ORF48, ORF58, ORF72/vCyclin, K3, K9/vIRF1, K10/vIRF4, and K10.5/vIRF3 to the list of KSHV proteins that can be incorporated into virions. The addition of these proteins to the KSHV virion proteome provides novel and important insight into early events in KSHV infection mediated by virion-associated proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022626.
PXD022598	33276691	Post-Translational Modification Analysis of VDAC1 in ALS-SOD1 Model Cells Reveals Specific Asparagine and Glutamine Deamidation. 	Post-translational modification analysis of VDAC1 in ALS-SOD1 model cells reveals specific asparagine and glutamine deamination	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Deamidation, Mass Spectrometry analysis, Orbitrap fusion tribrid, ROS, SOD1, Voltage Dependent Anion Channel, mitochondria, neurodegeneration, post-translational modifications	Mitochondria from affected tissues of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients show morphological and biochemical abnormalities. Mitochondrial dysfunction causes oxidative damage and the accumulation of ROS, and represents one of the major triggers of selective death of motor neurons in ALS. We aimed to assess whether oxidative stress in ALS induces post-translational modifications (PTMs) in VDAC1, the main protein of the outer mitochondrial membrane and known to interact with SOD1 mutants related to ALS. In this work, specific PTMs of the VDAC1 protein purified by hydroxyapatite from mitochondria of a NSC34 cell line expressing human SOD1G93A, a suitable ALS motor neuron model, were analyzed by tryptic and chymotryptic proteolysis and UHPLC/High-Resolution ESI-MS/MS. We found selective deamidations of asparagine and glutamine of VDAC1 in ALS-related NSC34-SOD1G93A cells but not in NSC34-SOD1WT or NSC34 cells. In addition, we identified differences in the over-oxidation of methionine and cysteines between VDAC1 purified from ALS model or non-ALS NSC34 cells. The specific range of PTMs identified exclusively in VDAC1 from NSC34-SOD1G93A cells but not from NSC34 control lines, suggests the appearance of important changes to the structure of the VDAC1 channel and therefore to the bioenergetics metabolism of ALS motor neurons. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier <PXD022598>.
PXD021393	33277360	Multivalent lipid targeting by the calcium-independent C2A domain of synaptotagmin-like protein 4/granuphilin. 	Multivalent lipid targeting by the calcium-independent C2A domain of Slp-4/granuphilin	Intact Protein, LCMS, granuphilin, phosphogluconate	Synaptotagmin-like protein 4 (Slp-4), also known as granuphilin, is a Rab effector responsible for docking secretory vesicles to the plasma membrane before exocytosis. Slp-4 binds vesicular Rab proteins via an N-terminal Slp homology domain, interacts with plasma membrane SNARE complex proteins via a central linker region, and contains tandem C-terminal C2 domains (C2A and C2B) with affinity for phosphatidylinositol-(4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP2). The Slp-4 C2A domain binds with low nanomolar apparent affinity to PIP2 in lipid vesicles that also contain background anionic lipids such as phosphatidylserine but much weaker when either the background anionic lipids or PIP2 is removed. Through computational and experimental approaches, we show that this high-affinity membrane binding arises from concerted interaction at multiple sites on the C2A domain. In addition to a conserved PIP2-selective lysine cluster, a larger cationic surface surrounding the cluster contributes substantially to the affinity for physiologically relevant lipid compositions. Although the K398A mutation in the lysine cluster blocks PIP2 binding, this mutated protein domain retains the ability to bind physiological membranes in both a liposome-binding assay and MIN6 cells. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate several conformationally flexible loops that contribute to the nonspecific cationic surface. We also identify and characterize a covalently modified variant that arises through reactivity of the PIP2-binding lysine cluster with endogenous bacterial compounds and binds weakly to membranes. Overall, multivalent lipid binding by the Slp-4 C2A domain provides selective recognition and high-affinity docking of large dense core secretory vesicles to the plasma membrane.
PXD021991	33277362	Global proteomics of Ubqln2-based murine models of ALS. 	Global proteomics of Ubqln2-based murine models of ALS	ALS, UBQLN2, neurodegeneration, proteasome, ubiquitin, ubiquitin ligase	Familial neurodegenerative diseases commonly involve mutations that result in either aberrant proteins or dysfunctional components of the proteolytic machinery that act on aberrant proteins. UBQLN2 is a ubiquitin receptor of the UBL/UBA family that binds the proteasome through its ubiquitin-like domain and is thought to deliver ubiquitinated proteins to proteasomes for degradation. UBQLN2 mutations result in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)/frontotemporal dementia in humans through an unknown mechanism. Quantitative multiplexed proteomics was used to provide for the first time an unbiased and global analysis of the role of Ubqln2 in controlling the composition of the proteome. We studied several murine models of Ubqln2-linked ALS and also generated Ubqln2 null mutant mice. We identified impacts of Ubqln2 on diverse physiological pathways, most notably serotonergic signaling. Interestingly, we observed an upregulation of proteasome subunits, suggesting a compensatory response to diminished proteasome output. Among the specific proteins whose abundance is linked to UBQLN2 function, the strongest hits were the ubiquitin ligase TRIM32 and two retroelement-derived proteins, PEG10 and CXX1B. Cycloheximide chase studies using induced human neurons and HEK293 cells suggested that PEG10 and TRIM32 are direct clients. Although UBQLN2 directs the degradation of multiple proteins via the proteasome, it surprisingly conferred strong protection from degradation on the Gag-like protein CXX1B, which is expressed from the same family of retroelement genes as PEG10. In summary, this study charts the proteomic landscape of ALS-related Ubqln2 mutants and identifies candidate client proteins that are altered in vivo in disease models and whose degradation is promoted by UBQLN2.
PXD018007	33277478	A substrate binding model for the KEOPS tRNA modifying complex. 	tRNA binding to KEOPS human protein complex	HX-MS, KEOPS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), tRNA	The KEOPS complex, which is conserved across archaea and eukaryotes, is composed of four core subunits; Pcc1, Kae1, Bud32 and Cgi121. KEOPS is crucial for the fitness of all organisms examined. In humans, pathogenic mutations in KEOPS genes lead to Galloway-Mowat syndrome, an autosomal-recessive disease causing childhood lethality. Kae1 catalyzes the universal and essential tRNA modification N(6)-threonylcarbamoyl adenosine, but the precise roles of all other KEOPS subunits remain an enigma. Here we show using structure-guided studies that Cgi121 recruits tRNA to KEOPS by binding to its 3' CCA tail. A composite model of KEOPS bound to tRNA reveals that all KEOPS subunits form an extended tRNA-binding surface that we have validated in vitro and in vivo to mediate the interaction with the tRNA substrate and its modification. These findings provide a framework for understanding the inner workings of KEOPS and delineate why all KEOPS subunits are essential.
PXD017423	33277485	Bis(zinc(II)-dipicolylamine)-functionalized sub-2 mum core-shell microspheres for the analysis of N-phosphoproteome. 	Bis(zinc(II)-dipicolylamine) functionalized sub-2 m core-shell microspheres enabled comprehensive analysis of N-phosphoproteome	Bis(zinc(II)-dipicolylamine), N--phosphoproteome, sub-2 m core-shell microspheres	Protein N-phosphorylation plays a critical role in central metabolism and two/multicomponent signaling of prokaryotes. However, the current enrichment methods for O-phosphopeptides are not preferred for N-phosphopeptides due to the intrinsic lability of P-N bond under acidic conditions. Therefore, the effective N-phosphoproteome analysis remains challenging. Herein, bis(zinc(II)-dipicolylamine)-functionalized sub-2 mum core-shell silica microspheres (SiO2@DpaZn) are tailored for rapid and effective N-phosphopeptides enrichment. Due to the coordination of phosphate groups to Zn(II), N-phosphopeptides can be effectively captured under neutral conditions. Moreover, the method is successfully applied to an E.coli and HeLa N-phosphoproteome study. These results further broaden the range of methods for the discovery of N-phosphoproteins with significant biological functions.
PXD020890	33277614	The substrate specificity of the human TRAPPII complex's Rab-guanine nucleotide exchange factor activity. 	HDX-MS of TRAPPII reveals a conserved Rab binding interface	GEF, HDX-MS, Rab, TRAPPII	The TRAnsport Protein Particle (TRAPP) complexes act as Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for Rab GTPases, which are master regulators of membrane trafficking in eukaryotic cells. In metazoans, there are two large multi-protein TRAPP complexes: TRAPPII and TRAPPIII, with the TRAPPII complex able to activate both Rab1 and Rab11. Here we present detailed biochemical characterisation of Rab-GEF specificity of the human TRAPPII complex, and molecular insight into Rab binding. GEF assays of the TRAPPII complex against a panel of 20 different Rab GTPases revealed GEF activity on Rab43 and Rab19. Electron microscopy and chemical cross-linking revealed the architecture of mammalian TRAPPII. Hydrogen deuterium exchange MS showed that Rab1, Rab11 and Rab43 share a conserved binding interface. Clinical mutations in Rab11, and phosphomimics of Rab43, showed decreased TRAPPII GEF mediated exchange. Finally, we designed a Rab11 mutation that maintained TRAPPII-mediated GEF activity while decreasing activity of the Rab11-GEF SH3BP5, providing a tool to dissect Rab11 signalling. Overall, our results provide insight into the GTPase specificity of TRAPPII, and how clinical mutations disrupt this regulation.
PXD007600	33278033	Diurnal dynamics of the Arabidopsis rosette proteome and phosphoproteome. 	Arabidopsis diurnal LFQ proteome and  labelled phosphoproteome	diurnal, phosphoproteome	Plant growth depends on the diurnal regulation of cellular processes, but it is not well understood if and how transcriptional regulation controls diurnal fluctuations at the protein level. Here, we report a high-resolution Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) leaf rosette proteome acquired over a 12 hr light:12 hr dark diurnal cycle and the phosphoproteome immediately before and after the light-to-dark and dark-to-light transitions. We quantified nearly 5,000 proteins and 800 phosphoproteins, of which 288 fluctuated in their abundance and 226 fluctuated in their phosphorylation status. Of the phosphoproteins, 60% were quantified for changes in protein abundance. This revealed six proteins involved in nitrogen and hormone metabolism that had concurrent changes in both protein abundance and phosphorylation status. The diurnal proteome and phosphoproteome changes involve proteins in key cellular processes, including protein translation, light perception, photosynthesis, metabolism and transport. The phosphoproteome at the light-dark transitions revealed the dynamics at phosphorylation sites in either anticipation of or response to a change in light regime. Phosphorylation site motif analyses implicate casein kinase II and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinases among the primary light-dark transition kinases. The comparative analysis of the diurnal proteome and diurnal and circadian transcriptome established how mRNA and protein accumulation intersect in leaves during the diurnal cycle of the plant.
PXD020248	33278487	Comparison of quantitation methods in proteomics to define relevant toxicological information on AhR activation of HepG2 cells by BaP. 	Comparison of LFQ and TMT-based quantitative proteomics towards toxicology research	Benzo[a]pyrene, HepG2, label free-quantification (LFQ), tandem mass tag (TMT), toxicoproteomics	The application of quantitative proteomics provides a new and promising tool for standardized toxicological research. However, choosing a suitable quantitative method still puzzles many researchers because the optimal method needs to be determined. In this study, we investigated the advantages and limitations of two of the most commonly used global quantitative proteomics methods, namely label-free quantitation (LFQ) and tandem mass tags (TMT). As a case study, we exposed hepatocytes (HepG2) to the environmental contaminant benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) using a concentration of 2 muM. Our results revealed that both methods yield a similar proteome coverage, in which for LFQ a wider range of fold changes was observed but with less significant p-values compared to TMT. We detected 37 and 47 significantly enriched pathways by LFQ and TMT, respectively, with 17 overlapping pathways. To define the minimally required effort in proteomics as a benchmark, we artificially reduced the LFQ, and TMT data sets stepwise and compared the pathway enrichment. Thereby, we found that fewer proteins are necessary for detecting significant enrichment of pathways in TMT compared to LFQ, which might be explained by the higher reproducibility of the TMT data that was observed. In summary, we showed that the TMT approach is the preferable one when investigating toxicological questions because it offers a high reproducibility and sufficient proteome coverage in a comparably short time.
PXD021787	33280076	Proximity-based proteomics reveals the thylakoid lumen proteome in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. PCC 7002. 	Proximity-based proteomics reveals the thylakoid lumen proteome in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. PCC 7002	APEX2, Proximity-based Proteomics, cyanobacteria, photosynthesis, thylakoid lumen	Cyanobacteria possess unique intracellular organization. Many proteomic studies have examined different features of cyanobacteria to learn about the intracellular structures and their respective functions. While these studies have made great progress in understanding cyanobacterial physiology, the conventional fractionation methods used to purify cellular structures have limitations; specifically, certain regions of cells cannot be purified with existing fractionation methods. Proximity-based proteomics techniques were developed to overcome the limitations of biochemical fractionation for proteomics. Proximity-based proteomics relies on spatiotemporal protein labeling followed by mass spectrometry of the labeled proteins to determine the proteome of the region of interest. We performed proximity-based proteomics in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. PCC 7002 with the APEX2 enzyme, an engineered ascorbate peroxidase. We determined the proteome of the thylakoid lumen, a region of the cell that has remained challenging to study with existing methods, using a translational fusion between APEX2 and PsbU, a lumenal subunit of photosystem II. Our results demonstrate the power of APEX2 as a tool to study the cell biology of intracellular features and processes, including photosystem II assembly in cyanobacteria, with enhanced spatiotemporal resolution.
PXD029178	33280703	Selective enrichment of N-terminal proline peptides via hydrazide chemistry for proteomics analysis. 	Selective enrichment of N-terminal proline peptides via hydrazide chemistry for proteomics analysis	Lys-C/Arg-C digestion, N-terminal proline peptidess, solid-phase hydrazide chemistry	A challenge for shotgun proteomics is the identification of low abundance proteins, which is always hampered owing to the extreme complexity of protein digests and highly dynamic concentration range of proteins. To reduce the complexity of the peptide mixture, we developed a novel method to selectively enrich N-terminal proline peptides via hydrazide chemistry. This method consisted of ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA) blocking of primary amines in peptides, reductive glutaraldehydation of N-terminal proline and solid phase hydrazide chemistry enrichment of aldehyde-modified N-terminal proline peptide. After enrichment, the number of detected peptides containing N-terminal proline increased from 1304 to 4039 and the ratio of N-terminal proline peptides jumped from 4.4% to 93.7%, showing good enrichment specificity towards N-terminal proline peptides. Besides, the ratio of identified peptides to proteins was decreased from 7.8 (29751/3811) to 1.5 (4347/2821), indicating that sample complexity was drastically reduced through this method. As a result, this novel approach for enriching N-terminal proline peptides is effective in identification of low abundance protein owing to the reduction of sample complexity.
PXD021718	33281599	Differential Profile of Systemic Extracellular Vesicles From Sporadic and Familial Alzheimer's Disease Leads to Neuroglial and Endothelial Cell Degeneration. 	Proteome of systemic extracellular vesicles from sporadic and familiar Alzheimer's disease	extracellular vesicles, plasma, sporadic and familiar Alzheimer's	Evidence suggests that extracellular vesicles (EVs) act as mediators and biomarkers of neurodegenerative diseases. Two distinct forms of Alzheimer disease (AD) are known: a late-onset sporadic form (SAD) and an early-onset familial form (FAD). Recently, neurovascular dysfunction and altered systemic immunological components have been linked to AD neurodegeneration. Therefore, we characterized systemic-EVs from postmortem SAD and FAD patients and evaluated their effects on neuroglial and endothelial cells. We found increase CLN-5 spots with vesicular morphology in the abluminal portion of vessels from SAD patients. Both forms of AD were associated with larger and more numerous systemic EVs. Specifically, SAD patients showed an increase in endothelial- and leukocyte-derived EVs containing mitochondria; in contrast, FAD patients showed an increase in platelet-derived EVs. We detected a differential protein composition for SAD- and FAD-EVs associated with the coagulation cascade, inflammation, and lipid-carbohydrate metabolism. Using mono- and cocultures (endothelium-astrocytes-neurons) and human cortical organoids, we showed that AD-EVs induced cytotoxicity. Both forms of AD featured decreased neuronal branches area and astrocytic hyperreactivity, but SAD-EVs led to greater endothelial detrimental effects than FAD-EVs. In addition, FAD- and SAD-EVs affected calcium dynamics in a cortical organoid model. Our findings indicate that the phenotype of systemic AD-EVs is differentially defined by the etiopathology of the disease (SAD or FAD), which results in a differential alteration of the NVU cells implied in neurodegeneration.
PXD021512	33281859	Biostimulant Effects of Glutacetine(R) and Its Derived Formulations Mixed With N Fertilizer on Post-heading N Uptake and Remobilization, Seed Yield, and Grain Quality in Winter Wheat. 	Biostimulant impacts of Glutacetine on bread wheat grain proteome	Wheat, flour quality, nitrogen fertilizer, plant biostimulant	Biostimulants could play an important role in agriculture particularly for increasing N fertilizer use efficiency that is essential for maintaining both yield and grain quality in bread wheat, which is a major global crop. In the present study, we examined the effects of mixing urea-ammonium-nitrate fertilizer (UAN) or urea with five new biostimulants containing Glutacetine(R) or its derivative formulations (VNT1, 2, 3, and 4) on the physiological responses, agronomic traits, and grain quality of winter wheat. A first experiment under greenhouse conditions showed that VNT1, VNT3, and VNT4 significantly increased the seed yield and grain numbers per ear. VNT4 also enhanced total plant nitrogen (N) and total grain N, which induced a higher N Harvest Index (NHI). The higher post-heading N uptake (for VNT1 and VNT4) and the acceleration of senescence speed with all formulations enabled better nutrient remobilization efficiency, especially in terms of N mobilization from roots and straw toward the grain with VNT4. The grain ionome was changed by the formulations with the bioavailability of iron improved with the addition of VNT4, and the phytate concentrations in flour were reduced by VNT1 and VNT4. A second experiment in three contrasting field trials confirmed that VNT4 increased seed yield and N use efficiency. Our investigation reveals the important role of these new formulations in achieving significant increases in seed yield and grain quality.
PXD017384	33283228	Human GTPBP5 is involved in the late stage of mitoribosome large subunit assembly. 	Human GTPBP5 is involved in the late stage of mitoribosome large subunit assembly	LFQ, SILAC, mitochondria	Human mitoribosomes are macromolecular complexes essential for translation of 11 mitochondrial mRNAs. The large and the small mitoribosomal subunits undergo a multistep maturation process that requires the involvement of several factors. Among these factors, GTP-binding proteins (GTPBPs) play an important role as GTP hydrolysis can provide energy throughout the assembly stages. In bacteria, many GTPBPs are needed for the maturation of ribosome subunits and, of particular interest for this study, ObgE has been shown to assist in the 50S subunit assembly. Here, we characterize the role of a related human Obg-family member, GTPBP5. We show that GTPBP5 interacts specifically with the large mitoribosomal subunit (mt-LSU) proteins and several late-stage mitoribosome assembly factors, including MTERF4:NSUN4 complex, MRM2 methyltransferase, MALSU1 and MTG1. Interestingly, we find that interaction of GTPBP5 with the mt-LSU is compromised in the presence of a non-hydrolysable analogue of GTP, implying a different mechanism of action of this protein in contrast to that of other Obg-family GTPBPs. GTPBP5 ablation leads to severe impairment in the oxidative phosphorylation system, concurrent with a decrease in mitochondrial translation and reduced monosome formation. Overall, our data indicate an important role of GTPBP5 in mitochondrial function and suggest its involvement in the late-stage of mt-LSU maturation.
PXD022097	33284006	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Differentially Expressed Proteins between Injured Sensory and Motor Nerves after Peripheral Nerve Transection. 	Rat motor and sensory nerve LC-MSMS	Motor nerve, Peripheral nerve injury, Rat, Sensory nerve	Peripheral nerve repair and functional recovery depend on the rate of nerve regeneration and the quality of target reinnervation. It is important to fully understand the cellular and molecular basis underlying the specificity of peripheral nerve regeneration, which means achieving corresponding correct pathfinding and accurate target reinnervation for regrowing motor and sensory axons. In this study, a quantitative proteomic technique, based on isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ), was used to profile the protein expression pattern between single motor and sensory nerves at 14 days after peripheral nerve transection. Among a total of 1259 proteins identified, 176 proteins showed the differential expressions between injured motor and sensory nerves. Quantitative RT-PCR and western blot analysis were applied to validate the proteomic data on representative differentially expressed proteins. Functional categorization indicated that differentially expressed proteins were linked to a diverse array of molecular functions, including axonogenesis, response to axon injury, tissue remodeling, axon ensheathment, cell proliferation and adhesion, vesicle-mediated transport, response to oxidative stress, internal signal cascade, and macromolecular complex assembly, which might play an essential role in peripheral motor and sensory nerve regeneration. Overall, we hope that the proteomic database obtained in this study could serve as a solid foundation for the comprehensive investigation of differentially expressed proteins between injured motor and sensory nerves and for the mechanism elucidation of the specificity of peripheral nerve regeneration. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022097.
PXD022020	33284140	Re-examination of MAGE-A3 as a T-cell Therapeutic Target. 	MHC-I peptidome analysis of human cancer cell lines	HLA-I	In 2013, an innovative MAGE-A3-directed cancer therapeutic of great potential value was terminated in the clinic because of neurotoxicity. The safety problems were hypothesized to originate from off-target T-cell receptor activity against a closely related MAGE-A12 peptide. A combination of published and new data led us to test this hypothesis with current technology. Our results call into question MAGE-A12 as the source of the neurotoxicity. Rather, the data imply that an alternative related peptide from EPS8L2 may be responsible. Given the qualities of MAGE-A3 as an onco-testis antigen widely expressed in tumors and largely absent from normal adult tissues, these findings suggest that MAGE-A3 may deserve further consideration as a cancer target. As a step in this direction, the authors isolated 2 MAGE-A3 peptide-major histocompatibility complex-directed chimeric antigen receptors, 1 targeting the same peptide as the clinical T-cell receptor. Both chimeric antigen receptors have improved selectivity over the EPS8L2 peptide that represents a significant risk for MAGE-A3-targeted therapeutics, showing that there may be other options for MAGE-A3 cell therapy.
PXD018510	33284343	Hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry identifies the dominant paratope in CD20 antigen binding to the NCD1.2 monoclonal antibody. 	Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry implicates dynamic CD20 antigen binding to two discontinuous CDR regions in the NCD1.2 monoclonal antibody	ADEPT, CD20, HDX, comparative medicine, lymphoma, monoclonal antibody, phage display	A comparative canine-human therapeutics model is being developed in B-cell lymphoma through the generation of a hybridoma cell that produces a murine monoclonal antibody specific for canine CD20. The hybridoma cell produces two light chains, light chain-3, and light chain-7. However, the contribution of either light chain to the authentic full-length hybridoma derived IgG is undefined. Mass spectrometry was used to identify only one of the two light chains, light chain-7, as predominating in the full-length IgG. Gene synthesis created a recombinant murine-canine chimeric monoclonal antibody expressing light chain-7 that reconstituted the IgG binding to CD20. Using light chain-7 as a reference sequence, hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry was used to identify the dominant CDR region implicated in CD20 antigen binding. Early in the deuteration reaction, the CD20 antigen suppressed deuteration at CDR3 (VH). In later time points, deuterium suppression occurred at CDR2 (VH) and CDR2 (VL), with the maintenance of the CDR3 (VH) interaction. These data suggest that CDR3 (VH) functions as the dominant antigen docking motif and that antibody aggregation is induced at later time points after antigen binding. These approaches define a methodology for fine mapping of CDR contacts using nested enzymatic reactions and hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry. These data support the further development of an engineered, synthetic canine-murine monoclonal antibody, focused on CDR3 (VH), for use as a canine lymphoma therapeutic that mimics the human-murine chimeric anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab.
PXD018300	33284994	Inhibiting phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase counteracts chemotherapeutic efficacy against MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma. 	Metabolic dependencies in MYCN-driven neuroblastoma	MYCN, cancer cell metabolism, cell death, de novo serine synthesis pathway, one carbon metabolism, therapy resistance	Here we sought metabolic alterations specifically associated with MYCN amplification as nodes to indirectly target the MYCN oncogene. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based proteomics identified seven proteins consistently correlated with MYCN in proteomes from 49 neuroblastoma biopsies and 13 cell lines. Among these was phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo serine synthesis. MYCN associated with two regions in the PHGDH promoter, supporting transcriptional PHGDH regulation by MYCN. Pulsed stable isotope-resolved metabolomics utilizing (13) C-glucose labeling demonstrated higher de novo serine synthesis in MYCN-amplified cells compared to cells with diploid MYCN. An independence of MYCN-amplified cells from exogenous serine and glycine was demonstrated by serine and glycine starvation, which attenuated nucleotide pools and proliferation only in cells with diploid MYCN but did not diminish these endpoints in MYCN-amplified cells. Proliferation was attenuated in MYCN-amplified cells by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated PHGDH knockout or treatment with PHGDH small molecule inhibitors without affecting cell viability. PHGDH inhibitors administered as single-agent therapy to NOG mice harboring patient-derived MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma xenografts slowed tumor growth. However, combining a PHGDH inhibitor with the standard-of-care chemotherapy drug, cisplatin, revealed antagonism of chemotherapy efficacy in vivo. Emergence of chemotherapy resistance was confirmed in the genetic PHGDH knockout model in vitro. Altogether, PHGDH knockout or inhibition by small molecules consistently slows proliferation, but stops short of killing the cells, which then establish resistance to classical chemotherapy. Although PHGDH inhibition with small molecules has produced encouraging results in other preclinical cancer models, this approach has limited attractiveness for patients with neuroblastoma.
PXD019524	33285070	Isobaric Labeling Proteomics Allows a High-Throughput Investigation of Protein Corona Orientation. 	New method to investigate protein orientation in corona of nanomaterials	Protein corona, isobaric labeling, orientation	The formation of the biomolecular corona represents a crucial factor in controlling the biological interactions and trafficking of nanomaterials. In this context, the availability of key epitopes exposed on the surface of the corona, and able to engage the biological machinery, is important to define the biological fate of the material. While the full biomolecular corona composition can be investigated by conventional bottom-up proteomics, the assessment of the spatial orientation of proteins in the corona in a high-throughput fashion is still challenging. In this work, we show that labeling corona proteins with isobaric tags in their native conditions and analyzing the MS/MS spectra of tryptic peptides allow an easy and high-throughput assessment of the inner/outer orientation of the corresponding proteins in the original corona. We put our results in the context of what is currently known of the protein corona of graphene-based nanomaterials. Our conclusions are in line with previous data and were confirmed by in silico calculations.
PXD022051	33285428	The plastid proteome of the nonphotosynthetic chlorophycean alga Polytomella parva. 	The Plastid Proteome of the Nonphotosynthetic Chlorophycean Alga Polytomella parva	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Chlorophycean algae, Nonphotosynthetic algae, Polytomella parva, Q exactive, amyloplast, plastid proteome	The unicellular, free-living, nonphotosynthetic chlorophycean alga Polytomella parva, closely related to Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Volvox carteri, contains colorless, starch-storing plastids. The P. parva plastids lack all light-dependent processes but maintain crucial metabolic pathways. The colorless alga also lacks a plastid genome, meaning no transcription or translation should occur inside the organelle. Here, using an algal fraction enriched in plastids as well as publicly available transcriptome data, we provide a morphological and proteomic characterization of the P. parva plastid, ultimately identifying several plastid proteins, both by mass spectrometry and bioinformatic analyses. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022051. Altogether these results led us to propose a plastid proteome for P. parva, i.e., a set of proteins that participate in carbohydrate metabolism; in the synthesis and degradation of starch, amino acids and lipids; in the biosynthesis of terpenoids and tetrapyrroles; in solute transport and protein translocation; and in redox homeostasis. This is the first detailed plastid proteome from a unicellular, free-living colorless alga.
PXD020527	33288649	Cutibacterium acnes Central Nervous System Catheter Infection Induces Long-Term Changes in the Cerebrospinal Fluid Proteome. 	C. acnes CNS catheter infection elicits modest early inflammatory changes but long term alterations in the CSF proteome	C. acnes, CSF, Shunt Infection, biomarker, cytokine, inflammation	Cutibacterium acnes is the third most common cause of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunt infection and is likely underdiagnosed due to the difficulty in culturing this pathogen. Shunt infections lead to grave neurologic morbidity for patients especially when there is a delay in diagnosis. Currently, the gold standard for identifying CSF shunt infections is microbiologic culture. However, C. acnes infection often results in falsely negative cultures; therefore, new diagnostic methods are needed. To investigate potential CSF biomarkers of C. acnes CSF shunt infection we adapted a rat model of CSF catheter infection to C. acnes. We found elevated levels of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, chemokine ligand 2, and IL-10 in the CSF and brain tissues of animals implanted with C. acnes-infected catheters compared to sterile controls at day 1 postinfection. This coincided with modest increases in neutrophils in the CSF and, to a greater extent, in the brain tissues of animals with C. acnes infection, which closely mirrors the clinical findings in patients with C. acnes shunt infection. Mass spectrometry revealed that the CSF proteome is altered during C. acnes shunt infection and changes over the course of disease, typified at day 1 postinfection by an acute-phase and pathogen neutralization response evolving to a response consistent with wound resolution at day 28 compared to a sterile catheter placement. Collectively, these results demonstrate that it is possible to distinguish C. acnes infection from sterile postoperative inflammation and that CSF proteins could be useful in a diagnostic strategy for this pathogen that is difficult to diagnose.
PXD017376	33288677	RNA-binding proteins La and HuR cooperatively modulate translation repression of PDCD4 mRNA. 	Identification of cellular proteins binding to the 3'UTR of Programmed Cell Death 4 mRNA	3' untranslated region, RNA-binding protein, RNA-protein interaction, programmed cell death 4	Posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression plays a critical role in controlling the inflammatory response. An uncontrolled inflammatory response results in chronic inflammation, often leading to tumorigenesis. Programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) is a proinflammatory tumor-suppressor gene which helps to prevent the transition from chronic inflammation to cancer. PDCD4 mRNA translation is regulated by an interplay between the oncogenic microRNA miR-21 and the RNA-binding protein (RBP) human antigen R (HuR) in response to lipopolysaccharide stimulation, but the role of other regulatory factors remains unknown. Here, we report that the RBP lupus antigen (La) interacts with the 3'-untranslated region of PDCD4 mRNA and prevents miR-21-mediated translation repression. While lipopolysaccharide causes nuclear-cytoplasmic translocation of HuR, it enhances cellular La expression. Remarkably, La and HuR were found to bind cooperatively to the PDCD4 mRNA and mitigate miR-21-mediated translation repression. The cooperative action of La and HuR reduced cell proliferation and enhanced apoptosis, reversing the pro-oncogenic function of miR-21. Together, these observations demonstrate a cooperative interplay between two RBPs, triggered differentially by the same stimulus, which exerts a synergistic effect on PDCD4 expression and thereby helps maintain a balance between inflammation and tumorigenesis.
PXD021077	33288685	A Proteomics-Based Assessment of Inflammation Signatures in Endotoxemia. 	A proteomics-based assessment of inflammation signatures in endotoxemia	Aorta, DIA, Endotoxemia, LPS, Plasma, TMT	We have previously shown that multimers of plasma pentraxin-3 (PTX3) were predictive of survival in patients with sepsis. To characterize the release kinetics and cellular source of plasma protein changes in sepsis, serial samples were obtained from healthy volunteers (n = 10; three time points) injected with low-dose endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide [LPS]) and analyzed using data-independent acquisition MS. The human plasma proteome response was compared with an LPS-induced endotoxemia model in mice. Proteomic analysis of human plasma revealed a rapid neutrophil degranulation signature, followed by a rise in acute phase proteins. Changes in circulating PTX3 correlated with increases in neutrophil-derived proteins following LPS injection. Time course analysis of the plasma proteome in mice showed a time-dependent increase in multimeric PTX3, alongside increases in neutrophil-derived myeloperoxidase (MPO) upon LPS treatment. The mechanisms of oxidation-induced multimerization of PTX3 were explored in two genetic mouse models: MPO global knock-out (KO) mice and LysM Cre Nox2 KO mice, in which NADPH oxidase 2 (Nox2) is only deficient in myeloid cells. Nox2 is the enzyme responsible for the oxidative burst in neutrophils. Increases in plasma multimeric PTX3 were not significantly different between wildtype and MPO or LysM Cre Nox2 KO mice. Thus, PTX3 may already be stored and released in a multimeric form. Through in vivo neutrophil depletion and multiplexed vascular proteomics, PTX3 multimer deposition within the aorta was confirmed to be neutrophil dependent. Proteomic analysis of aortas from LPS-injected mice returned PTX3 as the most upregulated protein, where multimeric PTX3 was deposited as early as 2 h post-LPS along with other neutrophil-derived proteins. In conclusion, the rise in multimeric PTX3 upon LPS injection correlates with neutrophil-related protein changes in plasma and aortas. MPO and myeloid Nox2 are not required for the multimerization of PTX3; instead, neutrophil extravasation is responsible for the LPS-induced deposition of multimeric PTX3 in the aorta.
PXD016816	33288711	Pharmacoproteomics pinpoints HSP70 interaction for correction of the most frequent Wilson disease-causing mutant of ATP7B. 	Interactomes of WT and H1069Q variants of ATP7B	ATP7B, Wilson disease, copper	Pathogenic mutations in the copper transporter ATP7B have been hypothesized to affect its protein interaction landscape contributing to loss of function and, thereby, to hepatic copper toxicosis in Wilson disease. Although targeting mutant interactomes was proposed as a therapeutic strategy, druggable interactors for rescue of ATP7B mutants remain elusive. Using proteomics, we found that the frequent H1069Q substitution promotes ATP7B interaction with HSP70, thus accelerating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) degradation of the mutant protein and consequent copper accumulation in hepatic cells. This prompted us to use an HSP70 inhibitor as bait in a bioinformatics search for structurally similar Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs. Among the hits, domperidone emerged as an effective corrector that recovered trafficking and function of ATP7B-H1069Q by impairing its exposure to the HSP70 proteostatic network. Our findings suggest that HSP70-mediated degradation can be safely targeted with domperidone to rescue ER-retained ATP7B mutants and, hence, to counter the onset of Wilson disease.
PXD019810	33288743	Cytosolic sequestration of the vitamin D receptor as a therapeutic option for vitamin D-induced hypercalcemia. 	HDX-MS of VDR-RXR in complex with ZK168281	HDX-MS, antagonist, nuclear receptors	The bioactive vitamin D3, 1alpha,25(OH)2D3, plays a central role in calcium homeostasis by controlling the activity of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) in various tissues. Hypercalcemia secondary to high circulating levels of vitamin D3 leads to hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis and renal dysfunctions. Current therapeutic strategies aim at limiting calcium intake, absorption and resorption, or 1alpha,25(OH)2D3 synthesis, but are poorly efficient. In this study, we identify WBP4 as a new VDR interactant, and demonstrate that it controls VDR subcellular localization. Moreover, we show that the vitamin D analogue ZK168281 enhances the interaction between VDR and WBP4 in the cytosol, and normalizes the expression of VDR target genes and serum calcium levels in 1alpha,25(OH)2D3-intoxicated mice. As ZK168281 also blunts 1alpha,25(OH)2D3-induced VDR signaling in fibroblasts of a patient with impaired vitamin D degradation, this VDR antagonist represents a promising therapeutic option for 1alpha,25(OH)2D3-induced hypercalcemia.
PXD012926	33289389	Identification of Evolutionarily Conserved Nuclear Matrix Proteins and Their Prokaryotic Origins. 	Identification of evolutionarily conserved nuclear matrix proteins and their prokaryotic origins	Nuclear architecture, ProteomeXchange project tag: Epigenetic Chromatin (B/D-HPP), core nuclear matrix proteome, nuclear evolution, nuclear matrix, nucleoskeleton	Compared to prokaryotic cells, a typical eukaryotic cell is much more complex along with its endomembrane system and membrane-bound organelles. Although the endosymbiosis theories convincingly explain the evolution of membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts, very little is understood about the evolutionary origins of the nucleus, the defining feature of eukaryotes. Most studies on nuclear evolution have not been able to take into consideration the underlying structural framework of the nucleus, attributed to the nuclear matrix (NuMat), a ribonucleoproteinaceous structure. This can largely be attributed to the lack of annotation of its core components. Since NuMat has been shown to provide a structural platform for facilitating a variety of nuclear functions such as replication, transcription, and splicing, it is important to identify its protein components to better understand these processes. In this study, we address this issue using the developing embryos of Drosophila melanogaster and Danio rerio and identify 362 core NuMat proteins that are conserved between the two organisms. We further compare our results with publicly available Mus musculus NuMat dataset and Homo sapiens cellular localization dataset to define the core homologous NuMat proteins consisting of 252 proteins. We find that of them, 86 protein groups have originated from pre-existing proteins in prokaryotes. While 36 were conserved across all eukaryotic supergroups, 14 new proteins evolved before the evolution of the last eukaryotic common ancestor and together, these 50 proteins out of the 252 core conserved NuMat proteins are conserved across all eukaryotes, indicating their indispensable nature for nuclear function for over 1.5 billion years of eukaryotic history. Our analysis paves the way to understand the evolution of the complex internal nuclear architecture and its functions.
PXD020042	33290043	Tyrosine-EDC Conjugation, an Undesirable Side Effect of the EDC-Catalyzed Carboxyl Labeling Approach. 	An Undesirable Side Effect of EDC-catalyzed Carboxyl Labeling Approach	C-TAILS, Carboxyl protection, EDC, Tyrosine	Carbodiimide-catalyzed carboxyl and amine conjugation (amidation) has been widely used to protect carboxyl groups. N-(3-(Dimethylamino)propyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide (EDC) is the most common carbodiimide reagent in protein chemistry due to its high catalytic efficiency in aqueous media. The reaction has also been applied in different proteomic studies including protein terminomics, glycosylation, and interaction. Herein, we report that the EDC-catalyzed amidation could cause a +155 Da side modification on the tyrosine residue and severely hamper the identification of Tyr-containing peptides. We revealed the extremely low identification rate of Tyr-containing peptides in different published studies employing the EDC-catalyzed amidation. We discovered a +155 Da side modification occurring specifically on Tyr and decoded it as the addition of EDC. Consideration of the side modification in a database search enabled the identification of 13 times more Tyr-containing peptides. Furthermore, we successfully developed an efficient method to remove the side modification. Our results also imply that chemical reactions in proteomic studies should be carefully evaluated prior to their wide applications. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020042.
PXD021719	33290046	Mitochondrial Transcription Factor A Binds to and Promotes Mutagenic Transcriptional Bypass of O(4)-Alkylthymidine Lesions. 	TFAM Binds to and Promotes Mutagenic Transcriptional Bypass of O4-Alkylthymidine Lesions	DNA Damage, TFAM	O(2)- and O(4)-alkylated thymidine lesions are known to be poorly repaired and persist in mammalian tissues. To understand how mammalian cells sense the presence and regulate the repair of these lesions, we employed a quantitative proteomic method to discover regioisomeric O(2)- and O(4)-n-butylthymidine (O(2)- and O(4)-nBudT)-binding proteins. We were able to identify 21 and 74 candidate DNA damage recognition proteins for O(2)-nBudT- and O(4)-nBudT-bearing DNA probes, respectively. Among these proteins, DDB1 and DDB2 selectively bind to O(2)-nBudT-containing DNA, whereas three high-mobility group (HMG) proteins (i.e., HMGB1, HMGB2, and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM)) exhibit preferential binding to O(4)-nBudT-bearing DNA. We further demonstrated that TFAM binds directly and selectively with O(4)-alkyldT-harboring DNA, and the binding capacity depends mainly on the HMG box-A domain of TFAM. We also found that TFAM promotes transcriptional mutagenesis of O(4)-nBudT and O(4)-pyridyloxobutylthymidine, which is a DNA adduct induced by tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines, in vitro and in human cells. Together, we explored, for the first time, the interaction proteomes of O-alkyldT lesions, and our study expanded the functions of TFAM by revealing its capability in the recognition of O(4)-alkyldT-bearing DNA and uncovering its modulation of transcriptional mutagenesis of these lesions in human cells.
PXD019284	33292164	Subclinical effects of remote ischaemic conditioning in human kidney transplants revealed by quantitative proteomics. 	Subclinical effects of remote ischaemic conditioning in human kidney transplants revealed by quantitative proteomics	kidney, quantitative proteomics, remote ischaemic conditioning	BACKGROUND: Remote ischaemic conditioning (RIC) is currently being explored as a non-invasive method to attenuate ischaemia/reperfusion injuries in organs. A randomised clinical study (CONTEXT) evaluated the effects of RIC compared to non-RIC controls in human kidney transplants. METHODS: RIC was induced prior to kidney reperfusion by episodes of obstruction to arterial flow in the leg opposite the transplant using a tourniquet (4 x 5 min). Although RIC did not lead to clinical improvement of transplant outcomes, we explored whether RIC induced molecular changes through precision analysis of CONTEXT recipient plasma and kidney tissue samples by high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). RESULTS: We observed an accumulation of muscle derived proteins and altered amino acid metabolism in kidney tissue proteomes, likely provoked by RIC, which was not reflected in plasma. In addition, MS/MS analysis demonstrated transient upregulation of several acute phase response proteins (SAA1, SAA2, CRP) in plasma, 1 and 5 days post-transplant in RIC and non-RIC conditions with a variable effect on the magnitude of acute inflammation. CONCLUSIONS: Together, our results indicate sub-clinical systemic and organ-localised effects of RIC.
PXD022204	33292386	Intronic tRNAs of mitochondrial origin regulate constitutive and alternative splicing. 	Intronic tRNAs of mitochondrial origin regulate constitutive and alternative splicing	alternative splicing, constitutive splicing, intronic splicing enhancer (ISE), mitochondrial tRNA, nimtRNA, numtDNA, splicing, splicing regulatory element, tRNA, tRNA-lookalikes	BACKGROUND: The presence of nuclear mitochondrial DNA (numtDNA) has been reported within several nuclear genomes. Next to mitochondrial protein-coding genes, numtDNA sequences also encode for mitochondrial tRNA genes. However, the biological roles of numtDNA remain elusive. RESULTS: Employing in silico analysis, we identify 281 mitochondrial tRNA homologs in the human genome, which we term nimtRNAs (nuclear intronic mitochondrial-derived tRNAs), being contained within introns of 76 nuclear host genes. Despite base changes in nimtRNAs when compared to their mtRNA homologs, a canonical tRNA cloverleaf structure is maintained. To address potential functions of intronic nimtRNAs, we insert them into introns of constitutive and alternative splicing reporters and demonstrate that nimtRNAs promote pre-mRNA splicing, dependent on the number and positioning of nimtRNA genes and splice site recognition efficiency. A mutational analysis reveals that the nimtRNA cloverleaf structure is required for the observed splicing increase. Utilizing a CRISPR/Cas9 approach, we show that a partial deletion of a single endogenous nimtRNA(Lys) within intron 28 of the PPFIBP1 gene decreases inclusion of the downstream-located exon 29 of the PPFIBP1 mRNA. By employing a pull-down approach followed by mass spectrometry, a 3'-splice site-associated protein network is identified, including KHDRBS1, which we show directly interacts with nimtRNA(Tyr) by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay. CONCLUSIONS: We propose that nimtRNAs, along with associated protein factors, can act as a novel class of intronic splicing regulatory elements in the human genome by participating in the regulation of splicing.
PXD022153	33293461	A Potential Role for the Gsdf-eEF1alpha Complex in Inhibiting Germ Cell Proliferation: A Protein-Interaction Analysis in Medaka (Oryzias latipes) From a Proteomics Perspective. 	A potential role of Gsdf-eEF1 complex in inhibiting germ cell proliferation: A protein interaction analysis in medaka (Oryzias latipes) from a proteomics perspective	42Sp50, eEF1, gsdf	Gonadal soma-derived factor (gsdf) has been demonstrated to be essential for testicular differentiation in medaka (Oryzias latipes). To understand the protein dynamics of Gsdf in spermatogenesis regulation, we used a His-tag "pull-down" assay coupled with shotgun LC-MS/MS to identify a group of potential interacting partners for Gsdf, which included cytoplasmic dynein light chain 2, eukaryotic polypeptide elongation factor 1 alpha (eEF1alpha), and actin filaments in the mature medaka testis. As for the interaction with transforming growth factor beta-dynein being critical for spermatogonial division in Drosophila melanogaster, the physical interactions of Gsdf-dynein and Gsdf-eEF1alpha were identified through a yeast 2-hybrid screening of an adult testis cDNA library using Gsdf as bait, which were verified by a paired yeast 2-hybrid assay. Coimmunoprecipitation of Gsdf and eEF1alpha was defined in adult testes as supporting the requirement of a Gsdf and eEF1alpha interaction in testis development. Proteomics analysis (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022153) and ultrastructural observations showed that Gsdf deficiency activated eEF1alpha-mediated protein synthesis and ribosomal biogenesis, which in turn led to the differentiation of undifferentiated germ cells. Thus, our results provide a framework and new insight into the coordination of a Gsdf (transforming growth factor beta) and eEF1alpha complex in the basic processes of germ cell proliferation, transcriptional and translational control of sexual RNA, which may be fundamentally conserved across the phyla during sexual differentiation.
PXD020276	33293576	Mild hyperlipidemia in mice aggravates platelet responsiveness in thrombus formation and exploration of platelet proteome and lipidome. 	Mild hyperlipidemia in mice aggravates platelet responsiveness in thrombus formation: exploration of platelet proteome and lipidome.	coagulation, hyperlipidemia, mouse platelets, platelet activation, thrombus formation	Hyperlipidemia is a well-established risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Millions of people worldwide display mildly elevated levels of plasma lipids and cholesterol linked to diet and life-style. While the prothrombotic risk of severe hyperlipidemia has been established, the effects of moderate hyperlipidemia are less clear. Here, we studied platelet activation and arterial thrombus formation in Apoe(-/-) and Ldlr(-/-) mice fed a normal chow diet, resulting in mildly increased plasma cholesterol. In blood from both knockout mice, collagen-dependent thrombus and fibrin formation under flow were enhanced. These effects did not increase in severe hyperlipidemic blood from aged mice and upon feeding a high-fat diet (Apoe(-/-) mice). Bone marrow from wild-type or Ldlr(-/-) mice was transplanted into irradiated Ldlr(-/-) recipients. Markedly, thrombus formation was enhanced in blood from chimeric mice, suggesting that the hyperlipidemic environment altered the wild-type platelets, rather than the genetic modification. The platelet proteome revealed high similarity between the three genotypes, without clear indication for a common protein-based gain-of-function. The platelet lipidome revealed an altered lipid profile in mildly hyperlipidemic mice. In conclusion, in Apoe(-/-) and Ldlr(-/-) mice, modest elevation in plasma and platelet cholesterol increased platelet responsiveness in thrombus formation and ensuing fibrin formation, resulting in a prothrombotic phenotype.
PXD018052	33293632	The transcription factor TAL1 and miR-17-92 create a regulatory loop in hematopoiesis. 	The transcription factor TAL1 and the miR-17-92 cluster establish a regulatory loop	Jurkat cells, TAL1, blood, hematopoiesis, miR-17-92, microRNA	A network of gene regulatory factors such as transcription factors and microRNAs establish and maintain gene expression patterns during hematopoiesis. In this network, transcription factors regulate each other and are involved in regulatory loops with microRNAs. The microRNA cluster miR-17-92 is located within the MIR17HG gene and encodes six mature microRNAs. It is important for hematopoietic differentiation and plays a central role in malignant disease. However, the transcription factors downstream of miR-17-92 are largely elusive and the transcriptional regulation of miR-17-92 is not fully understood. Here we show that miR-17-92 forms a regulatory loop with the transcription factor TAL1. The miR-17-92 cluster inhibits expression of TAL1 and indirectly leads to decreased stability of the TAL1 transcriptional complex. We found that TAL1 and its heterodimerization partner E47 regulate miR-17-92 transcriptionally. Furthermore, miR-17-92 negatively influences erythroid differentiation, a process that depends on gene activation by the TAL1 complex. Our data give example of how transcription factor activity is fine-tuned during normal hematopoiesis. We postulate that disturbance of the regulatory loop between TAL1 and the miR-17-92 cluster could be an important step in cancer development and progression.
PXD016927	33296138	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Global Protein Acetylation in PRRSV-Infected Pulmonary Alveolar Macrophages. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of global protein acetylation in PRRSV infected pulmonary alveolar macrophages	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome, Tandem mass tag label LC-MS, acetylation., post-translational modification	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS), caused by PRRS virus (PRRSV), is a serious viral disease affecting global swine industry. Due to the lack of effective vaccines, new antiviral strategies to compensate for the inefficacy of available vaccines are urgently required. Lysine acetylation, as an important post-translational modification during infection, plays a key regulatory role in host antiviral responses. In this study, the global acetylome is profiled using acetylation specific antibody-based enrichment and tandem mass tag label high-affinity purification liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry in PRRSV-infected pulmonary alveolar macrophages (PAMs). As a result, 3731 lysine acetylation sites on 1421 cellular proteins are identified. Bioinformatics analysis of the different acetylated proteins revealed their involvement in various biological processes, including the host immune response and energy metabolism. These findings will contribute to the understanding of PRRSV pathogenesis and identify new cellular targets for anti-PPRSV therapeutics.
PXD043399	33296653	Human VAPome Analysis Reveals MOSPD1 and MOSPD3 as Membrane Contact Site Proteins Interacting with FFAT-Related FFNT Motifs. 	Human VAPome Analysis Reveals MOSPD1 and MOSPD3 as Membrane Contact Site Proteins Interacting with FFAT-Related FFNT Motifs	Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy, FFAT, FFNT, MOSPD1, MOSPD2, MOSPD3, VAPA, VAPB, endoplasmic reticulum, membrane contact sites	Membrane contact sites (MCS) are intracellular regions where two organelles come closer to exchange information and material. The majority of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) MCS are attributed to the ER-localized tether proteins VAPA, VAPB, and MOSPD2. These recruit other proteins to the ER by interacting with their FFAT motifs. Here, we describe MOSPD1 and MOSPD3 as ER-localized tethers interacting with FFAT motif-containing proteins. Using BioID, we identify proteins interacting with VAP and MOSPD proteins and find that MOSPD1 and MOSPD3 prefer unconventional FFAT-related FFNT (two phenylalanines [FF] in a neutral tract) motifs. Moreover, VAPA/VAPB/MOSPD2 and MOSPD1/MOSPD3 assemble into two separate ER-resident complexes to interact with FFAT and FFNT motifs, respectively. Because of their ability to interact with FFNT motifs, MOSPD1 and MOSPD3 could form MCS between the ER and other organelles. Collectively, these findings expand the VAP family of proteins and highlight two separate complexes in control of interactions between intracellular compartments.
PXD022088	33296673	TINC- A Method to Dissect Regulatory Complexes at Single-Locus Resolution- Reveals an Extensive Protein Complex at the Nanog Promoter. 	TINC - a method to dissect transcriptional complexes at single locus resolution - reveals novel Nanog regulators in mouse embryonic stem cells	Nanog, TINC, cellular identity, regulatory elements, stem cells	Cellular identity is ultimately dictated by the interaction of transcription factors with regulatory elements (REs) to control gene expression. Advances in epigenome profiling techniques have significantly increased our understanding of cell-specific utilization of REs. However, it remains difficult to dissect the majority of factors that interact with these REs due to the lack of appropriate techniques. Therefore, we developed TINC: TALE-mediated isolation of nuclear chromatin. Using this new method, we interrogated the protein complex formed at the Nanog promoter in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and identified many known and previously unknown interactors, including RCOR2. Further interrogation of the role of RCOR2 in ESCs revealed its involvement in the repression of lineage genes and the fine-tuning of pluripotency genes. Consequently, using the Nanog promoter as a paradigm, we demonstrated the power of TINC to provide insight into the molecular makeup of specific transcriptional complexes at individual REs as well as into cellular identity control in general.
PXD015022	33297749	Single Mutation in the NFU1 Gene Metabolically Reprograms Pulmonary Artery Smooth Muscle Cells. 	A single mutation in NFU1 gene metabolically reprograms pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells	Liver, NFU1, hyper-proliferative, pulmonary arterial hypertension	OBJECTIVE: NFU1 is a mitochondrial iron-sulfur scaffold protein, involved in iron-sulfur assembly and transfer to complex II and LAS (lipoic acid synthase). Patients with the point mutation NFU1(G208C) and CRISPR/CAS9 (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat-associated 9)-generated rats develop mitochondrial dysfunction leading to pulmonary arterial hypertension. However, the mechanistic understanding of pulmonary vascular proliferation due to a single mutation in NFU1 remains unresolved. Approach and Results: Quantitative proteomics of isolated mitochondria showed the entire phenotypic transformation of NFU1(G206C) rats with a disturbed mitochondrial proteomic landscape, involving significant changes in the expression of 208 mitochondrial proteins. The NFU1 mutation deranged the expression pattern of electron transport proteins, resulting in a significant decrease in mitochondrial respiration. Reduced reliance on mitochondrial respiration amplified glycolysis in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cell (PASMC) and activated GPD (glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase), linking glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation and lipid metabolism. Decreased PDH (pyruvate dehydrogenase) activity due to the lipoic acid shortage is compensated by increased fatty acid metabolism and oxidation. PASMC became dependent on extracellular fatty acid sources due to upregulated transporters such as CD36 (cluster of differentiation 36) and CPT (carnitine palmitoyltransferase)-1. Finally, the NFU1 mutation produced a dysregulated antioxidant system in the mitochondria, leading to increased reactive oxygen species levels. PASMC from NFU1 rats showed apoptosis resistance, increased anaplerosis, and attained a highly proliferative phenotype. Attenuation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species by mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant significantly decreased PASMC proliferation. CONCLUSIONS: The alteration in iron-sulfur metabolism completely transforms the proteomic landscape of the mitochondria, leading toward metabolic plasticity and redistribution of energy sources to the acquisition of a proliferative phenotype by the PASMC.
PXD014647	33297944	Comparative proteomics of three Chinese potato cultivars to improve understanding of potato molecular response to late blight disease. 	Comparative proteomics of three Chinese potato cultivars to improve understanding of potato molecular response to late blight disease	Hypersensitive response., Late blight disease, Phytophthora infestans, Potato proteomics, Resistant, Susceptible	BACKGROUND: Late blight disease (LBD) caused by the pathogen Phytophthora infestans (PI), is the most devastating disease limiting potato (Solanum tuberosum) production globally. Currently, this disease pathogen is re-emerging and appearing in new areas at a very high intensity. A better understanding of the natural defense mechanisms against PI in different potato cultivars especially at the protein level is still lacking. Therefore, to elucidate potato proteome response to PI, we investigated changes in the proteome and leaf morphology of three potato cultivars, namely; Favorita (FA), Mira (MA), and E-malingshu N0.14 (E14) infected with PI by using the iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomics analysis. RESULTS: A total of 3306 proteins were found in the three potato genotypes, and 2044 proteins were quantified. Cluster analysis revealed MA and E14 clustered together separately from FA. The protein profile and related functions revealed that the cultivars shared a typical hypersensitive response to PI, including induction of elicitors, oxidative burst, and suppression of photosynthesis in the potato leaves. Meanwhile, MA and E14 deployed additional specific response mechanism different from FA, involving high induction of protease inhibitors, serine/threonine kinases, terpenoid, hormone signaling, and transport, which contributed to MA tolerance of LBD. Furthermore, inductions of pathogenesis-related proteins, LRR receptor-like kinases, mitogen-activated protein kinase, WRKY transcription factors, jasmonic acid, and phenolic compounds mediate E14 resistance against LBD. These proteins were confirmed at the transcription level by a quantitative polymerase chain reaction and at the translation level by western-blot. CONCLUSIONS: We found several proteins that were differentially abundant among the cultivars, that includes common and cultivar specific proteins which highlighted similarities and significant differences between FA, MA, and E14 in terms of their defense response to PI. Here the specific accumulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase, Serine/threonine kinases, WRKY transcription played a positive role in E14 immunity against PI. The candidate proteins identified reported in this study will form the basis of future studies and may improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of late blight disease resistance in potato.
PXD020556	33298861	Autophagy-mediated metabolic effects of aspirin. 	Autophagy-mediated metabolic effects of aspirin	Cells HCT WT and EP300 KO, aspirin	Salicylate, the active derivative of aspirin (acetylsalicylate), recapitulates the mode of action of caloric restriction inasmuch as it stimulates autophagy through the inhibition of the acetyltransferase activity of EP300. Here, we directly compared the metabolic effects of aspirin medication with those elicited by 48 h fasting in mice, revealing convergent alterations in the plasma and the heart metabolome. Aspirin caused a transient reduction of general protein acetylation in blood leukocytes, accompanied by the induction of autophagy. However, these effects on global protein acetylation could not be attributed to the mere inhibition of EP300, as determined by epistatic experiments and exploration of the acetyl-proteome from salicylate-treated EP300-deficient cells. Aspirin reduced high-fat diet-induced obesity, diabetes, and hepatosteatosis. These aspirin effects were observed in autophagy-competent mice but not in two different models of genetic (Atg4b(-/-) or Bcln1(+/-)) autophagy-deficiency. Aspirin also improved tumor control by immunogenic chemotherapeutics, and this effect was lost in T cell-deficient mice, as well as upon knockdown of an essential autophagy gene (Atg5) in cancer cells. Hence, the health-improving effects of aspirin depend on autophagy.
PXD017824	33298915	Thermostability profiling of MHC-bound peptides: a new dimension in immunopeptidomics and aid for immunotherapy design. 	Thermostability profiling of MHC-bound peptides: a new dimension in immunopeptidomics and design of immunotherapeutics.	MHC, immunopeptidome, thermostability	The features of peptide antigens that contribute to their immunogenicity are not well understood. Although the stability of peptide-MHC (pMHC) is known to be important, current assays assess this interaction only for peptides in isolation and not in the context of natural antigen processing and presentation. Here, we present a method that provides a comprehensive and unbiased measure of pMHC stability for thousands of individual ligands detected simultaneously by mass spectrometry (MS). The method allows rapid assessment of intra-allelic and inter-allelic differences in pMHC stability and reveals profiles of stability that are broader than previously appreciated. The additional dimensionality of the data facilitated the training of a model which improves the prediction of peptide immunogenicity, specifically of cancer neoepitopes. This assay can be applied to any cells bearing MHC or MHC-like molecules, offering insight into not only the endogenous immunopeptidome, but also that of neoepitopes and pathogen-derived sequences.
PXD015070	33298924	NQO1 protects obese mice through improvements in glucose and lipid metabolism. 	Acetylation changes in NQO1 overexpression in Mouse Skeletal Mucscle	Acetylomics, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Metabolic Syndrome, NQO1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Skeletal Muscle Proteome (B/D-HPP), Quantitation, Skeletal Muscle	Chronic nutrient excess leads to metabolic disorders and insulin resistance. Activation of stress-responsive pathways via Nrf2 activation contributes to energy metabolism regulation. Here, inducible activation of Nrf2 in mice and transgenesis of the Nrf2 target, NQO1, conferred protection from diet-induced metabolic defects through preservation of glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, and lipid handling with improved physiological outcomes. NQO1-RNA interaction mediated the association with and inhibition of the translational machinery in skeletal muscle of NQO1 transgenic mice. NQO1-Tg mice on high-fat diet had lower adipose tissue macrophages and enhanced expression of lipogenic enzymes coincident with reduction in circulating and hepatic lipids. Metabolomics data revealed a systemic metabolic signature of improved glucose handling, cellular redox, and NAD(+) metabolism while label-free quantitative mass spectrometry in skeletal muscle uncovered a distinct diet- and genotype-dependent acetylation pattern of SIRT3 targets across the core of intermediary metabolism. Thus, under nutritional excess, NQO1 transgenesis preserves healthful benefits.
PXD019072	33299045	Evolutionary divergence of novel open reading frames in cichlids speciation. 	Rapid speciation of cichlids fishes may be explained by evolutionary divergence of novel open reading frames	Cichlids, Evolution, MassSpec, ORF, Speciation	Novel open reading frames (nORFs) with coding potential may arise from noncoding DNA. Not much is known about their emergence, functional role, fixation in a population or contribution to adaptive radiation. Cichlids fishes exhibit extensive phenotypic diversification and speciation. Encounters with new environments alone are not sufficient to explain this striking diversity of cichlid radiation because other taxa coexistent with the Cichlidae demonstrate lower species richness. Wagner et al. analyzed cichlid diversification in 46 African lakes and reported that both extrinsic environmental factors and intrinsic lineage-specific traits related to sexual selection have strongly influenced the cichlid radiation, which indicates the existence of unknown molecular mechanisms responsible for rapid phenotypic diversification, such as emergence of novel open reading frames (nORFs). In this study, we integrated transcriptomic and proteomic signatures from two tissues of two cichlids species, identified nORFs and performed evolutionary analysis on these nORF regions. Our results suggest that the time scale of speciation of the two species and evolutionary divergence of these nORF genomic regions are similar and indicate a potential role for these nORFs in speciation of the cichlid fishes.
PXD011368	33299139	Neddylation of PTEN regulates its nuclear import and promotes tumor development. 	MCF-7 Flag-need8 IP-MS        .	IP-MS, MCF-7, breast cancer cell	PTEN tumor suppressor opposes the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway in the cytoplasm and maintains chromosomal integrity in the nucleus. Nucleus-cytoplasm shuttling of PTEN is regulated by ubiquitylation, SUMOylation and phosphorylation, and nuclear PTEN has been proposed to exhibit tumor-suppressive functions. Here we show that PTEN is conjugated by Nedd8 under high glucose conditions, which induces PTEN nuclear import without effects on PTEN stability. PTEN neddylation is promoted by the XIAP ligase and removed by the NEDP1 deneddylase. We identify Lys197 and Lys402 as major neddylation sites on PTEN. Neddylated PTEN accumulates predominantly in the nucleus and promotes rather than suppresses cell proliferation and metabolism. The nuclear neddylated PTEN dephosphorylates the fatty acid synthase (FASN) protein, inhibits the TRIM21-mediated ubiquitylation and degradation of FASN, and then promotes de novo fatty acid synthesis. In human breast cancer tissues, neddylated PTEN correlates with tumor progression and poor prognosis. Therefore, we demonstrate a previously unidentified pool of nuclear PTEN in the Nedd8-conjugated form and an unexpected tumor-promoting role of neddylated PTEN.
PXD016589	33299184	The functional proteome landscape of Escherichia coli. 	Thermal proteome profiling of Escherichia coli mutants	Escherichia coli, genetic perturbation, mutants, thermal proteome profiling	Recent developments in high-throughput reverse genetics(1,2) have revolutionized our ability to map gene function and interactions(3-6). The power of these approaches depends on their ability to identify functionally associated genes, which elicit similar phenotypic changes across several perturbations (chemical, environmental or genetic) when knocked out(7-9). However, owing to the large number of perturbations, these approaches have been limited to growth or morphological readouts(10). Here we use a high-content biochemical readout, thermal proteome profiling(11), to measure the proteome-wide protein abundance and thermal stability in response to 121 genetic perturbations in Escherichia coli. We show that thermal stability, and therefore the state and interactions of essential proteins, is commonly modulated, raising the possibility of studying a protein group that is particularly inaccessible to genetics. We find that functionally associated proteins have coordinated changes in abundance and thermal stability across perturbations, owing to their co-regulation and physical interactions (with proteins, metabolites or cofactors). Finally, we provide mechanistic insights into previously determined growth phenotypes(12) that go beyond the deleted gene. These data represent a rich resource for inferring protein functions and interactions.
PXD022014	33299354	Effective Inhibition of MYC-Amplified Group 3 Medulloblastoma Through Targeting EIF4A1. 	Proteomic research on effect of EIF4A1 inhibition in MYC-amplified Group 3 medulloblastoma	EIF4A1, Group 3, MYC, medulloblastoma	PURPOSE: In medulloblastoma (MB), group 3 (G3) patients with MYC amplification tend to exhibit worse prognosis, thus creating a need for novel effective therapies. As the driver and crucial dependency for MYC-amplified G3-MB, MYC has been proven to be a prospective therapeutic target. Here, we aimed to identify novel effective therapeutic strategies against MYC-amplified G3-MB via targeting MYC translation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Major components of translation initiation complex eIF4F were subjected to MB tumor dataset analysis, and EIF4A1 was identified to be a potential therapeutic target of MYC-amplified G3-MB. Validation was performed through genetic or pharmacological approaches with multiple patient-derived tumor models of MYC-amplified G3-MB in vitro and in vivo. Underlying mechanisms were further explored by Western blot, quantitative real-time PCR and mass spectrometry (MS) analyses. RESULTS: MB tumor datasets analyses showed that EIF4A1 was significantly up-regulated in G3-MB patients relative to normal cerebella, positively correlated with MYC in G3-MB at transcriptional level and a crucial cancer dependency in MYC-amplified G3-MB cells. Targeting EIF4A1 with a CRISPR/Cas9 approach or small-molecule inhibitor silvestrol effectively attenuated growth in multiple preclinical models of MYC-amplified G3-MB via blocking proliferation and inducing apoptosis. Mechanistically, EIF4A1 inhibition effectively impeded MYC expression at translational level, and its potency was positively associated with MYC level. Whole-proteome MS analysis of silvestrol-treated cells further unveiled other biological functions and pathways influenced by EIF4A1 inhibition. CONCLUSION: Our investigation shows that interrupting MYC translation by EIF4A1 inhibition could be a potential effective therapeutic approach when treating patients with MYC-amplified G3-MB.
PXD019082	33301305	Substituting the Thiol Ester of Human A2M or C3 with a Disulfide Produces Native Proteins with Altered Proteolysis-Induced Conformational Changes. 	A2M Q975C and C3 Q1013C disulfide mutants	Human C3 A2M	Most proteins in the alpha-macroglobulin (alphaM) superfamily contain reactive thiol esters that are required for their biological function. Here, we have characterized the human alpha2-macroglobulin (A2M) and complement component C3 mutants A2M Q975C and C3 Q1013C, which replace the CGEQ thiol ester motifs of the original proteins with the disulfide-forming sequence CGEC. Mass spectrometry showed that the intended disulfide was formed in both proteins. The correct folding and native conformation of A2M Q975C were shown by its assembly to a tetramer, an initially slow electrophoretic mobility with a demonstrable conformational collapse induced by proteolysis, functional protease trapping, and conformation-dependent interactions with low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1. However, A2M Q975C had a decreased capacity to inhibit trypsin and was more susceptible to cleavage by trypsin or thermolysin when compared to wild-type A2M. C3 Q1013C also folded correctly and was initially in a native conformation, as demonstrated by its cation exchange elution profile, electrophoretic mobility, and interaction with complement factor B, although it assumed a conformation that was distinct from native C3, C3b, or C3(H2O) when cleaved by trypsin. These results demonstrate that disulfides can substitute thiol esters and maintain the native conformations of A2M and C3. Additionally, they indicate that proteolysis is not the sole factor in the conformational changes of A2M and C3 and that thiol ester lysis also plays a role.
PXD020254	33301522	In-depth characterization and comparison of the N-glycosylated proteome of two-dimensional- and three-dimensional-cultured breast cancer cells and xenografted tumors. 	Optimized Workflow for In-depth N-glycosylation Analysis of 2D and 3D Breast Cancer Cell Cultures and Xenografted Tumors	N-glycoproteomics, breast cancer, intact N-glycopeptides, zwitterionic hydrophilic interaction chromatography	Native intact N-glycopeptide analysis can provide access to the comprehensive characteristics of N-glycan occupancy, including N-glycosites, N-glycan compositions, and N-glycoproteins for complex samples. The sample pre-processing method used for the analysis of intact N-glycopeptides usually depends on the enrichment of low abundance N-glycopeptides from a tryptic peptide mixture using hydrophilic substances before LC-MS/MS detection. However, the number of identified intact N-glycopeptides remains inadequate to achieve an in-depth profile of the N-glycosylation landscape. Here, we optimized the sample preparation workflow prior to LC-MS/MS analysis by systematically comparing different analytical methods, including the use of different sources of trypsin, combinations of different proteases, and different enrichment materials. Finally, we found that the combination of Trypsin (B)/Lys-C digestion and zwitterionic HILIC (Zic-HILIC) enrichment significantly improved the mass spectrometric characterization of intact N-glycopeptides, increasing the number of identified intact N-glycopeptides and offering better analytical reproducibility. Furthermore, the optimized workflow was applied to the analysis of intact N-glycopeptides in two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D)-cultured breast cancer cells in vitro and xenografted tumors in mice. These results indicated that the same breast cancer cells, when cultured in different microenvironments, can show different N-glycosylation patterns. This study also provides an interesting comparison of the N-glycoproteome of breast cancer cells cultured in different growth conditions, indicating the important role of N-glycosylated proteins in cancer cell growth and the choice of the cell culture model for studies in tumor biology and drug evaluation.
PXD027259	33301673	Proteomic Workflows for High-Quality Quantitative Proteome and Post-Translational Modification Analysis of Clinically Relevant Samples from Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded Archives. 	Proteomic characterization of primary and brain metastatic lung adenocarcinomas in a well-defined patient cohort	FFPE samples, brain metastasis, cancer progression, clinical proteomics, lung adenocarcinoma	Well-characterized archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues are of much value for prospective biomarker discovery studies, and protocols that offer high throughput and good reproducibility are essential in proteomics. Therefore, we implemented efficient paraffin removal and protein extraction from FFPE tissues followed by an optimized two-enzyme digestion using suspension trapping (S-Trap). The protocol was then combined with TMTpro 16plex labeling and applied to lung adenocarcinoma patient samples. In total, 9585 proteins were identified, and proteins related to the clinical outcome were detected. Because acetylation is known to play a major role in cancer development, a fast on-trap acetylation protocol was developed for studying endogenous lysine acetylation, which allows identification and localization of the lysine acetylation together with quantitative comparison between samples. We demonstrated that FFPE tissues are equivalent to frozen tissues to study the degree of acetylation between patients. In summary, we present a reproducible sample preparation workflow optimized for FFPE tissues that resolves known proteomic-related challenges. We demonstrate compatibility of the S-Trap with isobaric labeling and for the first time, we prove that it is feasible to study endogenous lysine acetylation stoichiometry in FFPE tissues, contributing to better utility of the existing global tissue archives. The MS proteomic data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifiers PXD020157, PXD021986, and PXD021964.
PXD019495	33301708	Obesity Shapes Metabolism in the Tumor Microenvironment to Suppress Anti-Tumor Immunity. 	TMT-proteomics of sorted MC38+ tumor cells with high-fat diet	colorectal cancer, obesity	Obesity is a major cancer risk factor, but how differences in systemic metabolism change the tumor microenvironment (TME) and impact anti-tumor immunity is not understood. Here, we demonstrate that high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity impairs CD8(+) T cell function in the murine TME, accelerating tumor growth. We generate a single-cell resolution atlas of cellular metabolism in the TME, detailing how it changes with diet-induced obesity. We find that tumor and CD8(+) T cells display distinct metabolic adaptations to obesity. Tumor cells increase fat uptake with HFD, whereas tumor-infiltrating CD8(+) T cells do not. These differential adaptations lead to altered fatty acid partitioning in HFD tumors, impairing CD8(+) T cell infiltration and function. Blocking metabolic reprogramming by tumor cells in obese mice improves anti-tumor immunity. Analysis of human cancers reveals similar transcriptional changes in CD8(+) T cell markers, suggesting interventions that exploit metabolism to improve cancer immunotherapy.
PXD016196	33301732	Purified Smc5/6 Complex Exhibits DNA Substrate Recognition and Compaction. 	Purified Smc5/6 complex exhibits DNA substrate recognition and compaction	Crosslinking BS3 SMC5/6 complex	Eukaryotic SMC complexes, cohesin, condensin, and Smc5/6, use ATP hydrolysis to power a plethora of functions requiring organization and restructuring of eukaryotic chromosomes in interphase and during mitosis. The Smc5/6 mechanism of action and its activity on DNA are largely unknown. Here we purified the budding yeast Smc5/6 holocomplex and characterized its core biochemical and biophysical activities. Purified Smc5/6 exhibits DNA-dependent ATP hydrolysis and SUMO E3 ligase activity. We show that Smc5/6 binds DNA topologically with affinity for supercoiled and catenated DNA templates. Employing single-molecule assays to analyze the functional and dynamic characteristics of Smc5/6 bound to DNA, we show that Smc5/6 locks DNA plectonemes and can compact DNA in an ATP-dependent manner. These results demonstrate that the Smc5/6 complex recognizes DNA tertiary structures involving juxtaposed helices and might modulate DNA topology by plectoneme stabilization and local compaction.
PXD021367	33301959	The impact of blood-processing time on the proteome of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. 	The Impact of Blood-Processing Time on the Proteome of Human Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells	Blood, Immunology., PBMC, iTRAQ	Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) are key to several diagnostics assays and basic science research. Blood pre-analytical variations that occur before obtaining the PBMC fraction can significantly impact the assays results, including viability, composition, integrity, and gene expression changes of immune cells. With this as motivation, we performed a quantitative shotgun proteomics analysis using Isobaric Tag for Relative and Absolute Quantitation (iTRAQ 8plex) labeling to compare PBMC obtained from 24 h-stored blood at room temperature versus freshly isolated. We identified a total of 3195 proteins, of which 245 were differentially abundant (101 upregulated and 144 downregulated). Our results revealed enriched pathways of downregulated proteins related to exocytosis, localization, vesicle-mediated transport, cell activation, and secretion. In contrast, pathways related to exocytosis, neutrophil degranulation and activation, granulocyte activation, leukocyte degranulation, and myeloid leukocyte activation involved in immune response were enriched in upregulated proteins, which may indicate probable granulocyte contamination and activation due to blood storage time and temperature. Examples of upregulated proteins in the 24 h-PBMC samples are CAMP, S100A8, LTA4H, RASAL3, and S100A6, which are involved in an adaptive immune system and antimicrobial activity, proinflammatory mediation, aminopeptidase activities, and naive T cells survival. Moreover, examples of downregulated proteins are NDUFA5, TAGLN2, H3C1, TUBA8, and CCT2 that are related to the cytoskeleton, cell junction, mitochondrial respiratory chain. In conclusion, the delay in blood-processing time directly impacts the proteomic profile of human PBMC, possibly through granulocyte contamination and activation.
PXD017992	33304200	Mass Spectral Analysis of Synthetic Peptides: Implications in Proteomics. 	Mass spectral Analysis of Synthetic Peptides: Implications in Proteomics	Peptides, Tandem mass spectrometry, chromatography, human proteome, proteomic standards	Sequence determination of peptides is a crucial step in mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Peptide sequences are determined either by database search or by de novo sequencing using tandem mass spectrometry. Determination of all the theoretical expected peptide fragments and eliminating false discoveries remains a challenge in proteomics. Developing standards for evaluating the performance of mass spectrometers and algorithms used for identification of proteins is important for proteomics studies. The current study is focused on these aspects by using synthetic peptides. A total of 599 peptides were designed from in silico tryptic digest with 1 or 2 missed cleavages from 199 human proteins, and synthetic peptides corresponding to these sequences were obtained. The peptides were mixed together, and analysis was carried out using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry on a Q-Exactive HF mass spectrometer. The peptides and proteins were identified with SEQUEST program. The analysis was carried out using the proteomics workflows. A total of 573 peptides representing 196 proteins could be identified, and a spectral library was created for these peptides. Analysis parameters such as "no enzyme selection" gave the maximum number of detected peptides as compared with trypsin in the selection. False discoveries could be identified. This study highlights the limitations of peptide detection and the need for developing powerful algorithms along with tools to evaluate mass spectrometers and algorithms. It also shows the limitations of peptide detection even with high-end mass spectrometers. The mass spectral data are available in ProteomeXchange with accession no. PXD017992.
PXD005219	33304478	The proteomic landscape of small urinary extracellular vesicles during kidney transplantation. 	Longitudinal study of the small urinary extracellular vesicle proteome during living donor kidney transplantation	exosomes, kidney, transplantation, urine	Kidney transplantation is the preferred renal replacement therapy available. Yet, long-term transplant survival is unsatisfactory, partially due to insufficient possibilities of longitudinal monitoring and understanding of the biological processes after transplantation. Small urinary extracellular vesicles (suEVs) - as a non-invasive source of information - were collected from 22 living donors and recipients. Unbiased proteomic analysis revealed temporal patterns of suEV protein signature and cellular processes involved in both early response and longer-term graft adaptation. Complement activation was among the most dynamically regulated components. This unique atlas of the suEV proteome is provided through an online repository allowing dynamic interrogation by the user. Additionally, a correlative analysis identified putative prognostic markers of future allograft function. One of these markers - phosphoenol pyruvate carboxykinase (PCK2) - could be confirmed using targeted MS in an independent validation cohort of 22 additional patients. This study sheds light on the impact of kidney transplantation on urinary extracellular vesicle content and allows the first deduction of early molecular processes in transplant biology. Beyond that our data highlight the potential of suEVs as a source of biomarkers in this setting.
PXD019151	33307037	Hypoxia and Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1alpha Regulate Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress in Nucleus Pulposus Cells: Implications of Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress for Extracellular Matrix Secretion. 	Secretome characterization of nucleus pulposus (NP) cells subjected to ER stress	ER stress, Nucleus pulposus, collagens, hypoxia, secretome	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is shown to promote nucleus pulposus (NP) cell apoptosis and intervertebral disc degeneration. However, little is known about ER stress regulation by the hypoxic disc microenvironment and its contribution to extracellular matrix homeostasis. NP cells were cultured under hypoxia (1% partial pressure of oxygen) to assess ER stress status, and gain-of-function and loss-of-function approaches were used to assess the role of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha in this pathway. In addition, the contribution of ER stress induction on the NP cell secretome was assessed by a nontargeted quantitative proteomic analysis by sequential windowed data independent acquisition of the total high-resolution mass spectra-mass spectrometry. NP cells exhibited a lower ER stress burden under hypoxia. Knockdown of HIF-1alpha increased C/EBP homologous protein, protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) levels, whereas HIF-1alpha stabilization decreased the expression of ER stress markers Ddit3, Hsp5a, Atf6, and Eif2a. Interestingly, ER stress inducers tunicamycin and thapsigargin induced HIF-1alpha activity under hypoxia while promoting the unfolded protein response. NP cell secretome analysis demonstrated an impact of ER stress induction on extracellular matrix secretion, with decreases in collagens and cell adhesion-related proteins. Moreover, analysis of transcriptomic data of NP tissues from aged mice and degenerated human discs showed higher levels of unfolded protein response markers and decreased levels of matrix components. Our study shows, for the first time, that hypoxia and HIF-1alpha attenuate ER stress responses in NP cells, and ER stress promotes inefficient extracellular matrix secretion under hypoxia.
PXD046189	33307249	Feasibility of phosphoproteomics to uncover oncogenic signalling in secreted extracellular vesicles using glioblastoma-EGFRVIII cells as a model. 	Feasibility of phosphoproteomics to uncover oncogenic signalling in secreted extracellular vesicles using glioblastoma-EGFRVIII cells as a model	EGFR, Extracellular vesicles, Glioblastoma multiforme, INKA, Phospho-proteomics, exosome	Cancer cells secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) that contain molecular information, including proteins and RNA. Oncogenic signalling can be transferred via the cargo of EVs to recipient cells and may influence the behaviour of neighbouring cells or cells at a distance. This cargo may contain cancer drivers, such as EGFR, and also phosphorylated (activated) components of oncogenic signalling cascades. Till date, the cancer EV phosphoproteome has not been studied in great detail. In the present study, we used U87 and U87EGFRvIII cells as a model to explore EV oncogenic signalling components in comparison to the cellular profile. EVs were isolated using the VN96 ME-kit and subjected to LC-MS/MS based phosphoproteomics and dedicated bioinformatics. Expression of (phosphorylated)-EGFR was highly increased in EGFRvIII overexpressing cells and their secreted EVs. The increased phosphorylated proteins in both cells and EVs were associated with activated components of the EGFR-signalling cascade and included EGFR, AKT2, MAPK8, SMG1, MAP3K7, DYRK1A, RPS6KA3 and PAK4 kinases. In conclusion, EVs harbour oncogenic signalling networks including multiple activated kinases including EGFR, AKT and mTOR. SIGNIFICANCE: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are biomarker treasure troves and are widely studied for their biomarker content in cancer. However, little research has been done on the phosphorylated protein profile within cancer EVs. In the current study, we demonstrate that EVs that are secreted by U87-EGFRvIII mutant glioblastoma cells contain high levels of oncogenic signalling networks. These networks contain multiple activated (phosphorylated) kinases, including EGFR, MAPK, AKT and mTOR.
PXD020219	33309826	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles and conditioned medium from human adipose-derived stem/stromal cells and dermal fibroblasts. 	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles and conditioned medium from human Adipose-derived Stem/Stromal Cells and Dermal Fibroblasts	Label-free quantitative proteomics, adipose-derived stromal cells, conditioned medium, dermal fibroblasts, extracellular vesicles, secretome	Conditioned medium (CM) and extracellular vesicles (EV) from Adipose-derived Stem/stromal cells (ASC) and Dermal fibroblasts (DF) represent promising tools for therapeutic applications. Which one should be preferred is still under debate and no direct comparison of their proteome has been reported yet. Here, we apply quantitative proteomics to explore the protein composition of CM and EV from the two cell types. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD020219). We identified 1977 proteins by LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis. Unsupervised clustering analysis and PCA recognized CM and EV as separate groups. We identified 68 and 201 CM and EV specific factors. CM were enriched in proteins of endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus and lysosomes, whereas EV contained a large amount of GTPases, ribosome and translation factors. The analysis of ASC and DF secretomes revealed the presence of cell type-specific proteins. ASC-CM and -EV carried factors involved in ECM organization and immunological regulation, respectively. Conversely, DF-CM and -EV were enriched in epithelium development associated factors and -EV in Wnt signaling factors. In conclusion, this analysis provides evidence of a different protein composition between CM and EV and of the presence of cell type-specific bioactive mediators suggesting their specific future use as advanced therapy medicinal products. SIGNIFICANCE: The use of cell secretome presents several advantages over cell therapy such as the lower risks associated to the administration step and the avoidance of any potential risk of malignant transformation. The main secretome preparations consist in concentrated conditioned medium (CM) and extracellular vesicles (EV). Both of them showed well-documented therapeutic potentials. However, it is still not clear in which case it should be better to use one preparation over the other and an exhaustive comparison between their proteome has not been performed yet. The choice of the cell source is another relevant aspect that still needs to be addressed. In order to shed light on these questions we explored the protein composition of CM and EV obtained from Adipose-derived Stem/stromal Cells (ASC) and Dermal Fibroblasts (DF), by a comprehensive quantitative proteomics approach. The analysis showed a clear distinction between CM and EV proteome. CM were enriched in proteins of endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus and lysosomes, whereas EV contained a large amount of GTPases, ribosome and translation-related factors. Furthermore, the analysis of ASC and DF secretomes revealed specific biological processes for the different cell products. ASC secretome presented factors involved in ECM organization (hyaluronan and glycosaminoglycan metabolism) and immunological regulation (e.g. macrophage and IkB/NFkB signaling regulation), respectively. On the other hand, DF-CM and -EV were both enriched in epithelium development associated factors, whilst DF-CM in proteins involved in cellular processes regulation and -EV in Wnt signaling factors. In conclusion, our study shed a light on the different protein composition of CM and EV of two promising cell types, spanning from basic processes involved in secretion to specific pathways supporting their therapeutic potential and their possible future use as advanced therapy medicinal products.
PXD020559	33310703	ATP13A3 is a major component of the enigmatic mammalian polyamine transport system. 	ATP13A3 is a major component of the enigmatic mammalian polyamine transport system	ATP13A3, CHO cells, P5B-ATPase, Polyamine transport system, Polyamines, Putrescine, Q Exactive HF	Polyamines, such as putrescine, spermidine, and spermine, are physiologically important polycations, but the transporters responsible for their uptake in mammalian cells remain poorly characterized. Here, we reveal a new component of the mammalian polyamine transport system using CHO-MG cells, a widely used model to study alternative polyamine uptake routes and characterize polyamine transport inhibitors for therapy. CHO-MG cells present polyamine uptake deficiency and resistance to a toxic polyamine biosynthesis inhibitor methylglyoxal bis-(guanylhydrazone) (MGBG), but the molecular defects responsible for these cellular characteristics remain unknown. By genome sequencing of CHO-MG cells, we identified mutations in an unexplored gene, ATP13A3, and found disturbed mRNA and protein expression. ATP13A3 encodes for an orphan P5B-ATPase (ATP13A3), a P-type transport ATPase that represents a candidate polyamine transporter. Interestingly, ATP13A3 complemented the putrescine transport deficiency and MGBG resistance of CHO-MG cells, whereas its knockdown in WT cells induced a CHO-MG phenotype demonstrated as a decrease in putrescine uptake and MGBG sensitivity. Taken together, our findings identify ATP13A3, which has been previously genetically linked with pulmonary arterial hypertension, as a major component of the mammalian polyamine transport system that confers sensitivity to MGBG.
PXD022157	33311474	Ubiquitination of RIPK1 regulates its activation mediated by TNFR1 and TLRs signaling in distinct manners. 	Distinct functions of RIPK1 ubiquitination in regulating its activation mediated by TNFR1 and TLRs signaling	ubiquitination of RIPK1	RIPK1 is a death-domain (DD) containing kinase involved in regulating apoptosis, necroptosis and inflammation. RIPK1 activation is known to be regulated by its DD-mediated interaction and ubiquitination, though underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here we show that K627 in human RIPK1-DD and its equivalent K612 in murine RIPK1-DD is a key ubiquitination site that regulates the overall ubiquitination pattern of RIPK1 and its DD-mediated interactions with other DD-containing proteins. K627R/K612R mutation inhibits the activation of RIPK1 and blocks both apoptosis and necroptosis mediated by TNFR1 signaling. However, Ripk1(K612R/K612R) mutation sensitizes cells to necroptosis and caspase-1 activation in response to TLRs signaling. Ripk1(K612R/K612R) mice are viable, but develop age-dependent reduction of RIPK1 expression, spontaneous intestinal inflammation and splenomegaly, which can be rescued by antibiotic treatment and partially by Ripk3 deficiency. Furthermore, we show that the interaction of RIPK1 with FADD contributes to suppressing the activation of RIPK3 mediated by TLRs signaling. Our study demonstrates the distinct roles of K612 ubiquitination in mRIPK1/K627 ubiquitination in hRIPK1 in regulating its pro-death kinase activity in response to TNFalpha and pro-survival activity in response to TLRs signaling.
PXD020339	33313418	Integrative vectors for regulated expression of SARS-CoV-2 proteins implicated in RNA metabolism. 	Integrative Vectors for Regulated Expression of SARS-CoV-2 Proteins Implicated in RNA Metabolism	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, RNA, UV crosslinking, fusion proteins	Infection with SARS-CoV-2 is expected to result in substantial reorganization of host cell RNA metabolism. We identified 14 proteins that were predicted to interact with host RNAs or RNA binding proteins, based on published data for SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. Here, we describe a series of affinity-tagged and codon-optimized expression constructs for each of these 14 proteins. Each viral gene was separately tagged at the N-terminus with Flag-His 8, the C-terminus with His 8-Flag, or left untagged. The resulting constructs were stably integrated into the HEK293 Flp-In T-REx genome. Each viral gene was expressed under the control of an inducible Tet-On promoter, allowing expression levels to be tuned to match physiological conditions during infection. Expression time courses were successfully generated for most of the fusion proteins and quantified by western blot. A few fusion proteins were poorly expressed, whereas others, including Nsp1, Nsp12, and N protein, were toxic unless care was taken to minimize background expression. All plasmids can be obtained from Addgene and cell lines are available. We anticipate that availability of these resources will facilitate a more detailed understanding of coronavirus molecular biology.
PXD013344	33313811	Proteome of fluid from human ovarian small antral follicles reveals insights in folliculogenesis and oocyte maturation. 	Proteome of fluid from human small antral follicles reveals insights in folliculogenesis and oocyte maturation.	follicles, follicular fluid, folliculogenesis	STUDY QUESTION: Is it possible to identify by mass spectrometry a wider range of proteins and key proteins involved in folliculogenesis and oocyte growth and development by studying follicular fluid (FF) from human small antral follicles (hSAF)? SUMMARY ANSWER: The largest number of proteins currently reported in human FF was identified in this study analysing hSAF where several proteins showed a strong relationship with follicular developmental processes. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Protein composition of human ovarian FF constitutes the microenvironment for oocyte development. Previous proteomics studies have analysed fluids from pre-ovulatory follicles, where large numbers of plasma constituents are transferred through the follicular basal membrane. This attenuates the detection of low abundant proteins, however, the basal membrane of small antral follicles is less permeable, making it possible to detect a large number of proteins, and thereby offering further insights in folliculogenesis. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Proteins in FF from unstimulated hSAF (size 6.1 +/- 0.4 mm) were characterised by mass spectrometry, supported by high-throughput and targeted proteomics and bioinformatics. The FF protein profiles from hSAF containing oocytes, capable or not of maturing to metaphase II of the second meiotic division during an IVM (n = 13, from 6 women), were also analysed. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: We collected FF from hSAF of ovaries that had been surgically removed from 31 women (~28.5 years old) undergoing unilateral ovariectomy for fertility preservation. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: In total, 2461 proteins were identified, of which 1108 identified for the first time in FF. Of the identified proteins, 24 were related to follicular regulatory processes. A total of 35 and 65 proteins were down- and up-regulated, respectively, in fluid from hSAF surrounding oocytes capable of maturing (to MII). We found that changes at the protein level occur already in FF from small antral follicles related to subsequent oocyte maturation. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: A possible limitation of our study is the uncertainty of the proportion of the sampled follicles that are undergoing atresia. Although the FF samples were carefully aspirated and processed to remove possible contaminants, we cannot ensure the absence of some proteins derived from cellular lysis provoked by technical reasons. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: This study is, to our knowledge, the first proteomics characterisation of FF from hSAF obtained from women in their natural menstrual cycle. We demonstrated that the analysis by mass spectrometry of FF from hSAF allows the identification of a greater number of proteins compared to the results obtained from previous analyses of larger follicles. Significant differences found at the protein level in hSAF fluid could predict the ability of the enclosed oocyte to sustain meiotic resumption. If this can be confirmed in further studies, it demonstrates that the viability of the oocyte is determined early on in follicular development and this may open up new pathways for augmenting or attenuating subsequent oocyte viability in the pre-ovulatory follicle ready to undergo ovulation. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): The authors thank the financial support from ReproUnion, which is funded by the Interreg V EU programme. No conflict of interest was reported by the authors. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: N/A.
PXD014734	33313836	Dioscorea Alata Tuber Proteome Analysis Uncovers Differentially Regulated Growth-associated Pathways of Tuber Development. 	Interplay of redox modulators and carbohydrate metabolism enzymes in Dioscorea alata tuber degradation and formation.	Dioscorea alata, degradation, formation, morpho-staging, plant pathways, tuber proteomics	During its life cycle, the Dioscorea tuber undergoes multiple morphological and biochemical changes. To gain a better understanding of the metabolic changes associated with tuber growth, a stage-specific gel-free proteome analysis of four distinct morphological stages namely germinating tuber (S1), degrading tuber (S2), new tuber formation (S3) and tuber maturation (S4) was done and validated by principal component analysis. A comprehensive data set identifying 78.2% of the total 3,681 proteins was generated. PANTHER and KEGG MAPPER revealed both expected (carbohydrate metabolism and redox regulation) and novel biological processes (transcription factors and hormonal regulation) characteristic for each developmental stage. Higher abundance of the enzymes of ascorbate-glutathione cycle and carbohydrate metabolism was detected during tuber germination (S1) and tuber formation stages (S3) in comparison with the mature tuber. The presence of ethylene biosynthesis components during tuber formation hints toward its probable role in postharvest shelf life. The data set comprehensively describes the proteome of Dioscorea tuber and provides growth-specific markers for tuber germination (ascorbate peroxidase, monodehydroascorbate reductase, invertase) and tuber formation (sucrose synthase), which were validated by enzyme activity assays and Western blotting. The study provides information that may influence the direction of research for improving the productivity of this under-utilized and largely neglected crop.
PXD020288	33313853	Urine proteomics for prediction of disease progression in patients with IgA nephropathy. 	Urine proteomics in IgA nephropathy	: IgA, CKD, IgAN, biomarker, glomerulonephritis, progression, urine proteomics	BACKGROUND: Risk of kidney function decline in immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy (IgAN) is significant and may not be predicted by available clinical and histological tools. To serve this unmet need, we aimed at developing a urinary biomarker-based algorithm that predicts rapid disease progression in IgAN, thus enabling a personalized risk stratification. METHODS: In this multicentre study, urine samples were collected in 209 patients with biopsy-proven IgAN. Progression was defined by tertiles of the annual change of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) during follow-up. Urine samples were analysed using capillary electrophoresis coupled mass spectrometry. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was used to evaluate the risk prediction models. RESULTS: Of the 209 patients, 64% were male. Mean age was 42 years, mean eGFR was 63 mL/min/1.73 m2 and median proteinuria was 1.2 g/day. We identified 237 urine peptides showing significant difference in abundance according to the tertile of eGFR change. These included fragments of apolipoprotein C-III, alpha-1 antitrypsin, different collagens, fibrinogen alpha and beta, titin, haemoglobin subunits, sodium/potassium-transporting ATPase subunit gamma, uromodulin, mucin-2, fractalkine, polymeric Ig receptor and insulin. An algorithm based on these protein fragments (IgAN237) showed a significant added value for the prediction of IgAN progression [AUC 0.89; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.83-0.95], as compared with the clinical parameters (age, gender, proteinuria, eGFR and mean arterial pressure) alone (0.72; 95% CI 0.64-0.81). CONCLUSIONS: A urinary peptide classifier predicts progressive loss of kidney function in patients with IgAN significantly better than clinical parameters alone.
PXD022258	33314217	A conserved cysteine-based redox mechanism sustains TFEB/HLH-30 activity under persistent stress. 	A conserved cysteine-based redox mechanism sustains TFEB/HLH-30 activity under persistent stress	HLH-30, TFE3, TFEB, glutathionylation, lysosomes	Mammalian TFEB and TFE3, as well as their ortholog in Caenorhabditis elegans HLH-30, play an important role in mediating cellular response to a variety of stress conditions, including nutrient deprivation, oxidative stress, and pathogen infection. In this study, we identify a novel mechanism of TFEB/HLH-30 regulation through a cysteine-mediated redox switch. Under stress conditions, TFEB-C212 undergoes oxidation, allowing the formation of intermolecular disulfide bonds that result in TFEB oligomerization. TFEB oligomers display increased resistance to mTORC1-mediated inactivation and are more stable under prolonged stress conditions. Mutation of the only cysteine residue present in HLH-30 (C284) significantly reduced its activity, resulting in developmental defects and increased pathogen susceptibility in worms. Therefore, cysteine oxidation represents a new type of TFEB post-translational modification that functions as a molecular switch to link changes in redox balance with expression of TFEB/HLH-30 target genes.
PXD016527	33314494	EmhR is an indole-sensing transcriptional regulator responsible for the indole-induced antibiotic tolerance in Pseudomonas fluorescens. 	EmhR is an indole-sensing transcriptional regulator responsive for the indole-induced antibiotic tolerance in Pseudomonas fluorescens	antibiotic tolerance, efflux pump, indole	Indole is well known as an interspecies signalling molecule to modulate bacterial physiology; however, it is not clear how the indole signal is perceived and responded to by plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) in the rhizosphere. Here, we demonstrated that indole enhanced the antibiotic tolerance of Pseudomonas fluorescens 2P24, a PGPR well known for its biocontrol capacity. Proteomic analysis revealed that indole influenced the expression of multiple genes including the emhABC operon encoding a major multidrug efflux pump. The expression of emhABC was regulated by a TetR-family transcription factor EmhR, which was demonstrated to be an indole-responsive regulator. Molecular dynamics simulation showed that indole allosterically affected the distance between the two DNA-recognizing helices within the EmhR dimer, leading to diminished EmhR-DNA interaction. It was further revealed the EmhR ortholog in Pseudomonas syringae was also responsible for indole-induced antibiotic tolerance, suggesting this EmhR-dependent, indole-induced antibiotic tolerance is likely to be conserved among Pseudomonas species. Taken together, our results elucidated the molecular mechanism of indole-induced antibiotic tolerance in Pseudomonas species and had important implications on how rhizobacteria sense and respond to indole in the rhizosphere.
PXD017940	33315086	ERCC1 mutations impede DNA damage repair and cause liver and kidney dysfunction in patients. 	Two siblings with strong NER inactivation due to inherited ERCC1 deficiency display mild clinical features of XP and CS with severe liver impairment	Cockayne Syndrome, ERCC1, Nucleotide Excission Repair, Xeroderma Pigmentosum	ERCC1-XPF is a multifunctional endonuclease involved in nucleotide excision repair (NER), interstrand cross-link (ICL) repair, and DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair. Only two patients with bi-allelic ERCC1 mutations have been reported, both of whom had features of Cockayne syndrome and died in infancy. Here, we describe two siblings with bi-allelic ERCC1 mutations in their teenage years. Genomic sequencing identified a deletion and a missense variant (R156W) within ERCC1 that disrupts a salt bridge below the XPA-binding pocket. Patient-derived fibroblasts and knock-in epithelial cells carrying the R156W substitution show dramatically reduced protein levels of ERCC1 and XPF. Moreover, mutant ERCC1 weakly interacts with NER and ICL repair proteins, resulting in diminished recruitment to DNA damage. Consequently, patient cells show strongly reduced NER activity and increased chromosome breakage induced by DNA cross-linkers, while DSB repair was relatively normal. We report a new case of ERCC1 deficiency that severely affects NER and considerably impacts ICL repair, which together result in a unique phenotype combining short stature, photosensitivity, and progressive liver and kidney dysfunction.
PXD015514	33315533	A novel phosphoinositide kinase Fab1 regulates biosynthesis of pathogenic aflatoxin in Aspergillus flavus. 	Aspergillus flavus proteomic data	Aspergillus flavus	Aspergillus flavus (A. flavus) is one of the most important model environmental fungi which can produce a potent toxin and carcinogen known as aflatoxin. Aflatoxin contamination causes massive agricultural economic loss and a critical human health issue each year. Although a functional vacuole has been highlighted for its fundamental importance in fungal virulence, the molecular mechanisms of the vacuole in regulating the virulence of A. flavus remain largely unknown. Here, we identified a novel vacuole-related protein in A. flavus, the ortholog of phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate-5-kinase (Fab1) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. This kinase was located at the vacuolar membrane, and loss of fab1 function was found to affect the growth, conidia and sclerotial development, cellular acidification and metal ion homeostasis, aflatoxin production and pathogenicity of A. flavus. Further functional analysis revealed that Fab1 was required to maintain the vacuole size and cell morphology. Additional quantitative proteomic analysis suggested that Fab1 was likely to play an important role in maintaining vacuolar/cellular homeostasis, with vacuolar dysregulation upon fab1 deletion leading to impaired aflatoxin synthesis in this fungus. Together, these results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms by which this pathogen produces aflatoxin and mediates its pathogenicity, and may facilitate dissection of the vacuole-mediated regulatory network in A. flavus.
PXD052407	33315917	Registered report protocol: Quantitative analysis of septin Cdc10-associated proteome in Cryptococcus neoformans. 	Quantitative analysis of septin Cdc10 & Cdc3-associated proteome during stress response in the fungal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans	Co-IP, Cryptococcus neoformans, Septin	Cryptococcus neoformans is a pathogenic basidiomycetous yeast that primarily infects immunocompromised individuals. C. neoformans can thrive during infections due to its three main virulence-related characteristics: the ability to grow at host temperature (37degreesC), formation of carbohydrate capsule, and its ability to produce melanin. C. neoformans strains lacking septin proteins Cdc3 or Cdc12 are viable at 25degreesC; however, they fail to proliferate at 37degreesC and are avirulent in the murine model of infection. The basis of septin contribution to growth at host temperature remains unknown. Septins are a family of conserved filament-forming GTPases with roles in cytokinesis and morphogenesis. In the model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae septins are essential. S. cerevisiae septins form a higher order complex at the mother-bud neck to scaffold over 80 proteins, including those involved in cell wall organization, cell polarity, and cell cycle control. In C. neoformans, septins also form a complex at the mother-bud neck but the septin interacting proteome in this species remains largely unknown. Moreover, it remains possible that septins play other roles important for high temperature stress that are independent of their established role in cytokinesis. Therefore, we propose to perform a global analysis of septin Cdc10 binding partners in C. neoformans, including those that are specific to high temperature stress. This analysis will shed light on the underlying mechanism of survival of this pathogenic yeast during infection and can potentially lead to the discovery of novel drug targets.
PXD022541	33316736	Proteomic analysis reveals critical molecular mechanisms involved in the macrophage anti-spinal tuberculosis process. 	Proteomic analysis reveals critical immunomolecular mechanisms in macrophage anti-tuberculosis processes	Spinal tuberculosis, bioinformatics, immunology, macrophages	Tuberculosis infection activates the autoimmune system. However, the role of host-pathogen interactions involved in Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection is unclear. In this study, we analyzed 6 spinal tuberculosis tissues and 6 herniated disc tissues by using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry coupled with tandem mass spectrometry, and immunohistochemical staining was performed for validating the results. We identified 42 differential immune-related proteins and 3 hub genes that are primarily localised in the tertiary granule and involved in biological processes such as cellular response to the presence of cadmium ions, regulation of ion transmembrane transport, transmembrane transport, and inflammatory responses. Genes encoding cytochrome B-245 beta chain (CYBB), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) were identified as the hub genes that exhibited anti-tuberculosis activity and were responsible for macrophage resistance against M. tuberculosis. In conclusion, CYBB, MMP9, and CXCL10 resist M. tuberculosis infection through chemotaxis and macrophage activation. Our results indicate that CYBB, MMP9, and CXCL10 could be considered as molecular targets for spinal tuberculosis treatment, which may significantly improve patients' quality of life and prognosis.
PXD019720	33316748	Proteomic analysis and biochemical alterations in marine mussel gills after exposure to the organophosphate flame retardant TDCPP. 	Mytilus galloprovincialis gills exposed to TDCPP	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Mytilus galloprovincialis, ProteomeXchange project tag: Toxicoproteomics (B/D-HPP), TMT-6plex, gills	Organophosphate flame retardants (OPFRs) are (re-)emergent environmental pollutants increasingly being used because of the restriction of other flame retardants. The chlorinated OPFR, tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP) is among those of highest environmental concern, but its potential effects in the marine environment have rarely been investigated. We exposed a widely used sentinel marine mussel species, Mytilus galloprovincialis, to 10 mug L(-1) of TDCPP during 28 days and studied: (i) the kinetics of bioaccumulation and elimination of the compound, (ii) the effect on two molecular biomarkers, glutathione S-transferase (GST) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities, and (iii) proteomic alterations in the gills, following an isobaric labeling quantitative shotgun proteomic approach, at two exposure times (7 and 28 days). Uptake and elimination of TDCPP by mussels were very fast, and the bioconcentration factor of this compound in mussels was 147 L kgww(-1), confirming that this compound is not very bioaccumulative, as predicted by its chemical properties. GST activity was not affected by TDCPP exposure, but AChE activity was inhibited by TDCPP at both 7 and 28 days of exposure. Proteomic analysis revealed subtle effects of TDCPP in mussel gills, since few proteins (less than 2 % of the analysed proteome) were significantly affected by TDCPP, and effect sizes were low. The most relevant effects detected were the up-regulation of epimerase family protein SDR39U1, an enzyme that could be involved in detoxification processes, at both exposure times, and the down-regulation of receptor-type tyrosine-protein phosphatase N2-like (PTPRN2) after 7 days of exposure, which is involved in neurotransmitter secretion and might be related to the neurotoxicity described for this compound. Exposure time rather than TDCPP exposure was the most important driver of protein abundance changes, with 33 % of the proteome being affected by this factor, suggesting that stress caused by laboratory conditions could be an important confounding factor that needs to be controlled in similar ecotoxicology studies. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD019720.
PXD022395	33319867	NAD(+)/NADH redox alterations reconfigure metabolism and rejuvenate senescent human mesenchymal stem cells in vitro. 	NAD+/NADH Redox Alterations Reconfigure Metabolism and Rejuvenate Senescent Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells In Vitro	MSC	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) promote endogenous tissue regeneration and have become a promising candidate for cell therapy. However, in vitro culture expansion of hMSCs induces a rapid decline of stem cell properties through replicative senescence. Here, we characterize metabolic profiles of hMSCs during expansion. We show that alterations of cellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD + /NADH) redox balance and activity of the Sirtuin (Sirt) family enzymes regulate cellular senescence of hMSCs. Treatment with NAD + precursor nicotinamide increases the intracellular NAD + level and re-balances the NAD + /NADH ratio, with enhanced Sirt-1 activity in hMSCs at high passage, partially restores mitochondrial fitness and rejuvenates senescent hMSCs. By contrast, human fibroblasts exhibit limited senescence as their cellular NAD + /NADH balance is comparatively stable during expansion. These results indicate a potential metabolic and redox connection to replicative senescence in adult stem cells and identify NAD + as a metabolic regulator that distinguishes stem cells from mature cells. This study also suggests potential strategies to maintain cellular homeostasis of hMSCs in clinical applications.
PXD019403	33319979	PepS: An Innovative Microfluidic Device for Bedside Whole Blood Processing before Plasma Proteomics Analyses. 	PepS: a microfluidic device to process whole blood at bedside for plasma proteomic analyses	DDA, centrifugation, microfluidic device, plasma	Immunoassays have been used for decades in clinical laboratories to quantify proteins in serum and plasma samples. However, their limitations make them inappropriate in some cases. Recently, mass spectrometry (MS) based proteomics analysis has emerged as a promising alternative method when seeking to assess panels of protein biomarkers with a view to providing protein profiles to monitor health status. Up to now, however, translation of MS-based proteomics to the clinic has been hampered by its complexity and the substantial time and human resources necessary for sample preparation. Plasma matrix is particularly tricky to process as it contains more than 3000 proteins with concentrations spanning an extreme dynamic range (10(10)). To address this preanalytical challenge, we designed a microfluidic device (PepS) automating and accelerating blood sample preparation for bottom-up MS-based proteomics analysis. The microfluidic cartridge is operated through a dedicated compact instrument providing fully automated fluid processing and thermal control. In less than 2 h, the PepS device allows bedside plasma separation from whole blood, volume metering, depletion of albumin, protein digestion with trypsin, and stabilization of tryptic peptides on solid-phase extraction sorbent. For this first presentation, the performance of the PepS device was assessed using discovery proteomics and targeted proteomics, detecting a panel of three protein biomarkers routinely assayed in clinical laboratories (alanine aminotransferase 1, C-reactive protein, and myoglobin). This innovative microfluidic device and its associated instrumentation should help to streamline and simplify clinical proteomics studies.
PXD016386	33320415	Protein quality control and regulated proteolysis in the genome-reduced organism Mycoplasma pneumoniae. 	Proteome wide measurements of protein half-lives in Mycoplasma pneumoniae	SILAC, degradation rates, protein half-life	Protein degradation is a crucial cellular process in all-living systems. Here, using Mycoplasma pneumoniae as a model organism, we defined the minimal protein degradation machinery required to maintain proteome homeostasis. Then, we conditionally depleted the two essential ATP-dependent proteases. Whereas depletion of Lon results in increased protein aggregation and decreased heat tolerance, FtsH depletion induces cell membrane damage, suggesting a role in quality control of membrane proteins. An integrative comparative study combining shotgun proteomics and RNA-seq revealed 62 and 34 candidate substrates, respectively. Cellular localization of substrates and epistasis studies supports separate functions for Lon and FtsH. Protein half-life measurements also suggest a role for Lon-modulated protein decay. Lon plays a key role in protein quality control, degrading misfolded proteins and those not assembled into functional complexes. We propose that regulating complex assembly and degradation of isolated proteins is a mechanism that coordinates important cellular processes like cell division. Finally, by considering the entire set of proteases and chaperones, we provide a fully integrated view of how a minimal cell regulates protein folding and degradation.
PXD020720	33320833	Identification of Wee1 as a target in combination with avapritinib for gastrointestinal stromal tumor treatment. 	Kinome Profiling of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Using Multiplexed Inhibitor Beads and Mass Spectrometry Identifies Wee1 as a Candidate Therapeutic Target	KIT, PDGFRA, gastrointestinal stromal tumor	Management of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) has been revolutionized by the identification of activating mutations in KIT and PDGFRA and clinical application of RTK inhibitors in advanced disease. Stratification of GISTs into molecularly defined subsets provides insight into clinical behavior and response to approved targeted therapies. Although these RTK inhibitors are effective in most GISTs, resistance remains a significant clinical problem. Development of effective treatment strategies for refractory GISTs requires identification of novel targets to provide additional therapeutic options. Global kinome profiling has the potential to identify critical signaling networks and reveal protein kinases essential in GISTs. Using multiplexed inhibitor beads and mass spectrometry, we explored the majority of the kinome in GIST specimens from the 3 most common molecular subtypes (KIT mutant, PDGFRA mutant, and succinate dehydrogenase deficient) to identify kinase targets. Kinome profiling with loss-of-function assays identified an important role for G2/M tyrosine kinase, Wee1, in GIST cell survival. In vitro and in vivo studies revealed significant efficacy of MK-1775 (Wee1 inhibitor) in combination with avapritinib in KIT mutant and PDGFRA mutant GIST cell lines as well as notable efficacy of MK-1775 as a monotherapy in the engineered PDGFRA mutant line. These studies provide strong preclinical justification for the use of MK-1775 in GIST.
PXD018217	33321094	The ubiquitin ligase RFWD3 is required for translesion DNA synthesis. 	The E3 ubiquitin ligase RFWD3 is required for translesion DNA synthesis	CHROMASS, DNA, PCNA, RFWD3, TLS, TS, Xenopus, damage, ubiquitin	Lesions on DNA uncouple DNA synthesis from the replisome, generating stretches of unreplicated single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) behind the replication fork. These ssDNA gaps need to be filled in to complete DNA duplication. Gap-filling synthesis involves either translesion DNA synthesis (TLS) or template switching (TS). Controlling these processes, ubiquitylated PCNA recruits many proteins that dictate pathway choice, but the enzymes regulating PCNA ubiquitylation in vertebrates remain poorly defined. Here we report that the E3 ubiquitin ligase RFWD3 promotes ubiquitylation of proteins on ssDNA. The absence of RFWD3 leads to a profound defect in recruitment of key repair and signaling factors to damaged chromatin. As a result, PCNA ubiquitylation is inhibited without RFWD3, and TLS across different DNA lesions is drastically impaired. We propose that RFWD3 is an essential coordinator of the response to ssDNA gaps, where it promotes ubiquitylation to drive recruitment of effectors of PCNA ubiquitylation and DNA damage bypass.
PXD021494	33322045	Novel Broad-Spectrum Antiviral Inhibitors Targeting Host Factors Essential for Replication of Pathogenic RNA Viruses. 	New antiviral small molecule inhibitors disturb interactions between cellular HSP70 and virus proteins	2D-TPP, TPP, antiviral compound, virus proteins	Recent RNA virus outbreaks such as Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and Ebola virus (EBOV) have caused worldwide health emergencies highlighting the urgent need for new antiviral strategies. Targeting host cell pathways supporting viral replication is an attractive approach for development of antiviral compounds, especially with new, unexplored viruses where knowledge of virus biology is limited. Here, we present a strategy to identify host-targeted small molecule inhibitors using an image-based phenotypic antiviral screening assay followed by extensive target identification efforts revealing altered cellular pathways upon antiviral compound treatment. The newly discovered antiviral compounds showed broad-range antiviral activity against pathogenic RNA viruses such as SARS-CoV-2, EBOV and Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV). Target identification of the antiviral compounds by thermal protein profiling revealed major effects on proteostasis pathways and disturbance in interactions between cellular HSP70 complex and viral proteins, illustrating the supportive role of HSP70 on many RNA viruses across virus families. Collectively, this strategy identifies new small molecule inhibitors with broad antiviral activity against pathogenic RNA viruses, but also uncovers novel virus biology urgently needed for design of new antiviral therapies.
PXD019450	33323470	Functional analysis of TLK2 variants and their proximal interactomes implicates impaired kinase activity and chromatin maintenance defects in their pathogenesis. 	TLK2-associated intellectual disability: report of six novel cases and molecular characterization of p.(Asp551Gly) and p.(Ser617Leu) variants	BioID, MRD57, TLK2, autism spectrum disorder, chromatin condensation, comet assay, intellectual disability, proximal interac-tome, tousled like kinases	INTRODUCTION: The Tousled-like kinases 1 and 2 (TLK1 and TLK2) are involved in many fundamental processes, including DNA replication, cell cycle checkpoint recovery and chromatin remodelling. Mutations in TLK2 were recently associated with 'Mental Retardation Autosomal Dominant 57' (MRD57, MIM# 618050), a neurodevelopmental disorder characterised by a highly variable phenotype, including mild-to-moderate intellectual disability, behavioural abnormalities, facial dysmorphisms, microcephaly, epilepsy and skeletal anomalies. METHODS: We re-evaluate whole exome sequencing and array-CGH data from a large cohort of patients affected by neurodevelopmental disorders. Using spatial proteomics (BioID) and single-cell gel electrophoresis, we investigated the proximity interaction landscape of TLK2 and analysed the effects of p.(Asp551Gly) and a previously reported missense variant (c.1850C>T; p.(Ser617Leu)) on TLK2 interactions, localisation and activity. RESULTS: We identified three new unrelated MRD57 families. Two were sporadic and caused by a missense change (c.1652A>G; p.(Asp551Gly)) or a 39 kb deletion encompassing TLK2, and one was familial with three affected siblings who inherited a nonsense change from an affected mother (c.1423G>T; p.(Glu475Ter)). The clinical phenotypes were consistent with those of previously reported cases. The tested mutations strongly impaired TLK2 kinase activity. Proximal interactions between TLK2 and other factors implicated in neurological disorders, including CHD7, CHD8, BRD4 and NACC1, were identified. Finally, we demonstrated a more relaxed chromatin state in lymphoblastoid cells harbouring the p.(Asp551Gly) variant compared with control cells, conferring susceptibility to DNA damage. CONCLUSION: Our study identified novel TLK2 pathogenic variants, confirming and further expanding the MRD57-related phenotype. The molecular characterisation of missense variants increases our knowledge about TLK2 function and provides new insights into its role in neurodevelopmental disorders.
PXD022506	33325135	Proteomic analysis of radio-resistant breast cancer xenografts: Increased TGF-beta signaling and metabolism. 	Discovery of biomarkers in radioresistant MCF7R breast cancer xenografts	MCF7, breast cancer, radioresistance, xenografts	Our previous studies have shown that MCF-7 breast cancer cell line exposed to 6 Gy and allowed to recover for 7 days (D7-6G) developed radio-resistance. In this study, we have tested the ability of these cells to form tumors in severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice and characterized these tumors by proteomic analyses. Untreated (MCF-C) and D7-6G cells (MCF-R) were injected s.c. in SCID mice and tumor growth monitored. On Day 18, the mice were killed and tumor tissues were fixed in formalin or RNA later. Expression of genes was assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and proteins by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay/antibody labeling and flow cytometry. Label free proteomic analyses was carried out by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Metabolic analysis was carried out using Seahorse analyzer. MCF-R cells had a shorter latency and formed larger tumors. These tumors were characterized by an increased expression of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) isoforms; its downstream genes pSMAD3, Snail-1, Zeb-1, HMGA2; hybrid epithelial/mesenchymal phenotype; migration, enrichment of cancer stem cells and radioresistance following challenge dose of radiation. Proteomic analysis of MCF-7R tumors resulted in identification of a total of 649 differentially expressed proteins and pathway analyses using protein annotation through evolutionary relationship indicated enrichment of genes involved in metabolism. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022506. Seahorse analyzer confirmed increased metabolism in these cells with increased oxidative phosphorylation as well as glycolysis. Increased uptake of 2-NBDG further confirmed increased glycolysis. In summary, we demonstrate that radioresistant breast cancer cells had an enrichment of TGF-beta signaling and increased metabolism.
PXD017345	33325487	SugarPy facilitates the universal, discovery-driven analysis of intact glycopeptides. 	SugarPy facilitates the universal, discovery-driven analysis of intact glycopeptides	IS-CID, SugarPy, archaea, computational proteomics, glycoproteomics, glycosylation, human breast milk, microalgae	MOTIVATION: Protein glycosylation is a complex post-translational modification with crucial cellular functions in all domains of life. Currently, large-scale glycoproteomics approaches rely on glycan database dependent algorithms and are thus unsuitable for discovery-driven analyses of glycoproteomes. RESULTS: Therefore, we devised SugarPy, a glycan database independent Python module, and validated it on the glycoproteome of human breast milk. We further demonstrated its applicability by analyzing glycoproteomes with uncommon glycans stemming from the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and the archaeon Haloferax volcanii. SugarPy also facilitated the novel characterization of glycoproteins from the red alga Cyanidioschyzon merolae. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The source code is freely available on GitHub (https://github.com/SugarPy/SugarPy), and its implementation in Python ensures support for all operating systems. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD019170	33326013	Subcellular localization of the J-protein Sis1 regulates the heat shock response. 	Subcellular localization of the J-protein Sis1 regulates the heat shock response	HSF1, J-protein, Q-Exactive, SIS1, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, heat shock	Cells exposed to heat shock induce a conserved gene expression program, the heat shock response (HSR), encoding protein homeostasis (proteostasis) factors. Heat shock also triggers proteostasis factors to form subcellular quality control bodies, but the relationship between these spatial structures and the HSR is unclear. Here we show that localization of the J-protein Sis1, a cofactor for the chaperone Hsp70, controls HSR activation in yeast. Under nonstress conditions, Sis1 is concentrated in the nucleoplasm, where it promotes Hsp70 binding to the transcription factor Hsf1, repressing the HSR. Upon heat shock, Sis1 forms an interconnected network with other proteostasis factors that spans the nucleolus and the surface of the endoplasmic reticulum. We propose that localization of Sis1 to this network directs Hsp70 activity away from Hsf1 in the nucleoplasm, leaving Hsf1 free to induce the HSR. In this manner, Sis1 couples HSR activation to the spatial organization of the proteostasis network.
PXD018187	33326776	Hypusination Orchestrates the Antimicrobial Response of Macrophages. 	Effect of Dhps deletion on macrophage activation by Helicobacter pylori	Helicobacter pylori, bacterial infection, macrophage	Innate responses of myeloid cells defend against pathogenic bacteria via inducible effectors. Deoxyhypusine synthase (DHPS) catalyzes the transfer of the N-moiety of spermidine to the lysine-50 residue of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (EIF5A) to form the amino acid hypusine. Hypusinated EIF5A (EIF5A(Hyp)) transports specific mRNAs to ribosomes for translation. We show that DHPS is induced in macrophages by two gastrointestinal pathogens, Helicobacter pylori and Citrobacter rodentium, resulting in enhanced hypusination of EIF5A. EIF5A(Hyp) was also increased in gastric macrophages from patients with H. pylori gastritis. Furthermore, we identify the bacteria-induced immune effectors regulated by hypusination. This set of proteins includes essential constituents of antimicrobial response and autophagy. Mice with myeloid cell-specific deletion of Dhps exhibit reduced EIF5A(Hyp) in macrophages and increased bacterial burden and inflammation. Thus, regulation of translation through hypusination is a critical hallmark of the defense of eukaryotic hosts against pathogenic bacteria.
PXD014485	33326835	Isocotoin suppresses hepatitis E virus replication through inhibition of heat shock protein 90. 	Thermal proteome profiling of anti-HEV compound	drugs, target engagement, thermal proteome profiling	Hepatitis E virus (HEV) causes 14 million infections and 60,000 deaths per year globally, with immunocompromised persons and pregnant women experiencing severe symptoms. Although ribavirin can be used to treat chronic hepatitis E, toxicity in pregnant patients and the emergence of resistant strains are major concerns. Therefore there is an imminent need for effective HEV antiviral agents. The aims of this study were to develop a drug screening platform and to discover novel approaches to targeting steps within the viral life cycle. We developed a screening platform for molecules inhibiting HEV replication and selected a candidate, isocotoin. Isocotoin inhibits HEV replication through interference with heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), a host factor not previously known to be involved in HEV replication. Additional work is required to understand the compound's translational potential, however this suggests that HSP90-modulating molecules, which are in clinical development as anti-cancer agents, may be promising therapies against HEV.
PXD018426	33328633	Small-molecule inhibitors of human mitochondrial DNA transcription. 	Chemical inhibition of mtDNA transcription for treatment of cancer	Fusion, Lumos, POLRMT, TMT, cancer, inhibitor, mitochondria, xenograft	Altered expression of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) occurs in ageing and a range of human pathologies (for example, inborn errors of metabolism, neurodegeneration and cancer). Here we describe first-in-class specific inhibitors of mitochondrial transcription (IMTs) that target the human mitochondrial RNA polymerase (POLRMT), which is essential for biogenesis of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system(1-6). The IMTs efficiently impair mtDNA transcription in a reconstituted recombinant system and cause a dose-dependent inhibition of mtDNA expression and OXPHOS in cell lines. To verify the cellular target, we performed exome sequencing of mutagenized cells and identified a cluster of amino acid substitutions in POLRMT that cause resistance to IMTs. We obtained a cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of POLRMT bound to an IMT, which further defined the allosteric binding site near the active centre cleft of POLRMT. The growth of cancer cells and the persistence of therapy-resistant cancer stem cells has previously been reported to depend on OXPHOS(7-17), and we therefore investigated whether IMTs have anti-tumour effects. Four weeks of oral treatment with an IMT is well-tolerated in mice and does not cause OXPHOS dysfunction or toxicity in normal tissues, despite inducing a strong anti-tumour response in xenografts of human cancer cells. In summary, IMTs provide a potent and specific chemical biology tool to study the role of mtDNA expression in physiology and disease.
PXD022268	33328637	Fat1 deletion promotes hybrid EMT state, tumour stemness and metastasis. 	Fat1 deletion promotes hybrid EMT state, tumor stemness, and metastasis	FAT1, Hybrid EMT, metastasis, stemness	FAT1, which encodes a protocadherin, is one of the most frequently mutated genes in human cancers(1-5). However, the role and the molecular mechanisms by which FAT1 mutations control tumour initiation and progression are poorly understood. Here, using mouse models of skin squamous cell carcinoma and lung tumours, we found that deletion of Fat1 accelerates tumour initiation and malignant progression and promotes a hybrid epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) phenotype. We also found this hybrid EMT state in FAT1-mutated human squamous cell carcinomas. Skin squamous cell carcinomas in which Fat1 was deleted presented increased tumour stemness and spontaneous metastasis. We performed transcriptional and chromatin profiling combined with proteomic analyses and mechanistic studies, which revealed that loss of function of FAT1 activates a CAMK2-CD44-SRC axis that promotes YAP1 nuclear translocation and ZEB1 expression that stimulates the mesenchymal state. This loss of function also inactivates EZH2, promoting SOX2 expression, which sustains the epithelial state. Our comprehensive analysis identified drug resistance and vulnerabilities in FAT1-deficient tumours, which have important implications for cancer therapy. Our studies reveal that, in mouse and human squamous cell carcinoma, loss of function of FAT1 promotes tumour initiation, progression, invasiveness, stemness and metastasis through the induction of a hybrid EMT state.
PXD020224	33328638	Anti-tumour immunity induces aberrant peptide presentation in melanoma. 	Anti-tumor immunity induces the presentation of aberrant peptides in melanoma	Melanoma, aberrant peptides, immune recognition, immunopeptidomics, tryptophan depletion	Extensive tumour inflammation, which is reflected by high levels of infiltrating T cells and interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) signalling, improves the response of patients with melanoma to checkpoint immunotherapy(1,2). Many tumours, however, escape by activating cellular pathways that lead to immunosuppression. One such mechanism is the production of tryptophan metabolites along the kynurenine pathway by the enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), which is induced by IFNgamma(3-5). However, clinical trials using inhibition of IDO1 in combination with blockade of the PD1 pathway in patients with melanoma did not improve the efficacy of treatment compared to PD1 pathway blockade alone(6,7), pointing to an incomplete understanding of the role of IDO1 and the consequent degradation of tryptophan in mRNA translation and cancer progression. Here we used ribosome profiling in melanoma cells to investigate the effects of prolonged IFNgamma treatment on mRNA translation. Notably, we observed accumulations of ribosomes downstream of tryptophan codons, along with their expected stalling at the tryptophan codon. This suggested that ribosomes bypass tryptophan codons in the absence of tryptophan. A detailed examination of these tryptophan-associated accumulations of ribosomes-which we term 'W-bumps'-showed that they were characterized by ribosomal frameshifting events. Consistently, reporter assays combined with proteomic and immunopeptidomic analyses demonstrated the induction of ribosomal frameshifting, and the generation and presentation of aberrant trans-frame peptides at the cell surface after treatment with IFNgamma. Priming of naive T cells from healthy donors with aberrant peptides induced peptide-specific T cells. Together, our results suggest that IDO1-mediated depletion of tryptophan, which is induced by IFNgamma, has a role in the immune recognition of melanoma cells by contributing to diversification of the peptidome landscape.
PXD021732	33329474	Free Rather Than Total Iron Content Is Critically Linked to the Fur Physiology in Shewanella oneidensis. 	Free rather than total iron content is critically linked to the Fur physiology in Shewanella oneidensis	Fur regulation, Heme, Shewanella, iron homeostasis, oxidative stress 2	Ferric uptake regulator (Fur) is a transcriptional regulator playing a central role in iron homeostasis of many bacteria, and Fur inactivation commonly results in pleiotropic phenotypes. In Shewanella oneidensis, a representative of dissimilatory metal-reducing gamma-proteobacteria capable of respiring a variety of chemicals as electron acceptors (EAs), Fur loss substantially impairs respiration. However, to date the mechanism underlying the physiological phenomenon remains obscure. This investigation reveals that Fur loss compromises activity of iron proteins requiring biosynthetic processes for their iron cofactors, heme in particular. We then show that S. oneidensis Fur is critical for maintaining heme homeostasis by affecting both its biosynthesis and decomposition of the molecule. Intriguingly, the abundance of iron-containing proteins controlled by H2O2-responding regulator OxyR increases in the fur mutant because the Fur loss activates OxyR. By comparing suppression of membrane-impermeable, membrane-permeable, and intracellular-only iron chelators on heme deficiency and elevated H2O2 resistance, our data suggest that the elevation of the free iron content by the Fur loss is likely to be the predominant factor for the Fur physiology. Overall, these results provide circumstantial evidence that Fur inactivation disturbs bacterial iron homeostasis by altering transcription of its regulon members, through which many physiological processes, such as respiration and oxidative stress response, are transformed.
PXD019448	33329740	The Active Constituent From Gynostemma Pentaphyllum Prevents Liver Fibrosis Through Regulation of the TGF-beta1/NDRG2/MAPK Axis. 	The Natural Product NPLC0393 Prevents Liver Fibrosis Through Regulation of the TGF-beta1/NDRG2/MAPK Axis	Liver fibrosis, NDRG2, TGF-beta1,NPLC0393	Liver fibrosis resulting from chronic liver damage constitutes a major health care burden worldwide; however, no antifibrogenic agents are currently available. Our previous study reported that the small molecule NPLC0393 extracted from the herb Gynostemma pentaphyllum exerts efficient antifibrotic effects both in vivo and in vitro. In this study, a TMT-based quantitative proteomic study using a carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced mouse model of liver fibrosis was performed to identify the potential target of NPLC0393. Combining this study with bioinformatic analysis of differentially expressed proteins between the CCl4 model and NPLC0393 treatment groups, we focused on the function of N-myc downstream-regulated gene 2 (NDRG2) involved in cell differentiation. In vitro studies showed that NPLC0393 prevented the TGF-beta1 stimulation-induced decrease in the NDRG2 level in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Functional studies indicated that NDRG2 can inhibit the activation of HSCs by preventing the phosphorylation of ERK and JNK. Furthermore, knockdown of NDRG2 abolished the ability of NPLC0393 to inhibit HSC activation. In conclusion, these results provide information on the mechanism underlying the antifibrotic effect of NPLC0393 and shed new light on the potential therapeutic function of the TGF-beta1/NDRG2/MAPK signaling axis in liver fibrosis.
PXD020949	33330136	Coexistence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa With Candida albicans Enhances Biofilm Thickness Through Alginate-Related Extracellular Matrix but Is Attenuated by N-acetyl-l-cysteine. 	Coexistence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa with Candida albicans enhances biofilm thickness through increased extracellular matrix from both organisms, but is attenuated by N-acetyl-L-cysteine	Biofilm, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, extracellular matrix	Bacteria and Candidaalbicans are prominent gut microbiota, and the translocation of these organisms into blood circulation might induce mixed-organism biofilms, which warrants the exploration of mixed- versus single-organism biofilms in vitro and in vivo. In single-organism biofilms, Acinetobacter baumannii and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) produced the least and the most prominent biofilms, respectively. C. albicans with P. aeruginosa (PA+CA) induced the highest biofilms among mixed-organism groups as determined by crystal violet straining. The sessile form of PA+CA induced higher macrophage responses than sessile PA, which supports enhanced immune activation toward mixed-organism biofilms. In addition, Candida incubated in pre-formed Pseudomonas biofilms (PA>CA) produced even higher biofilms than PA+CA (simultaneous incubation of both organisms) as determined by fluorescent staining on biofilm matrix (AF647 color). Despite the initially lower bacteria during preparation, bacterial burdens by culture in mixed-organism biofilms (PA+CA and PA>CA) were not different from biofilms of PA alone, supporting Candida-enhanced Pseudomonas growth. Moreover, proteomic analysis in PA>CA biofilms demonstrated high AlgU and mucA with low mucB when compared with PA alone or PA+CA, implying an alginate-related mucoid phenotype in PA>CA biofilms. Furthermore, mice with PA>CA biofilms demonstrated higher bacteremia with more severe sepsis compared with mice with PA+CA biofilms. This is possibly due to the different structures. Interestingly, l-cysteine, a biofilm matrix inhibitor, attenuated mixed-organism biofilms both in vitro and in mice. In conclusion, Candida enhanced Pseudomonas alginate-related biofilm production, and Candida presentation in pre-formed Pseudomonas biofilms might alter biofilm structures that affect clinical manifestations but was attenuated by l-cysteine.
PXD021868	33330584	Bifidobacterium infantis Metabolizes 2'Fucosyllactose-Derived and Free Fucose Through a Common Catabolic Pathway Resulting in 1,2-Propanediol Secretion. 	Bifidobacterium infantis metabolizes 2fucosyllactose-derived and free fucose through a common catabolic pathway resulting in 1,2-propanediol secretion	2fucosyllactose, Bifidobacteria, ProteomeXchange project tag: Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), fucose, human milk oligosaccharides, microbiome, microbiota	Human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs) enrich beneficial bifidobacteria in the infant gut microbiome which produce molecules that impact development and physiology. 2'fucosyllactose (2'FL) is a highly abundant fucosylated HMO which is utilized by Bifidobacterium longum subsp. infantis, despite limited scientific understanding of the underlying mechanism. Moreover, there is not a current consensus on whether free fucose could be metabolized when not incorporated in a larger oligosaccharide structure. Based on metabolic and genomic analyses, we hypothesize that B. infantis catabolizes both free fucose and fucosyl oligosaccharide residues to produce 1,2-propanediol (1,2-PD). Accordingly, systems-level approaches including transcriptomics and proteomics support this metabolic path. Co-fermentation of fucose and limiting lactose or glucose was found to promote significantly higher biomass and 1,2-PD concentrations than individual substrates, suggesting a synergistic effect. In addition, and during growth on 2'FL, B. infantis achieves significantly higher biomass corresponding to increased 1,2-PD. These findings support a singular fucose catabolic pathway in B. infantis that is active on both free and HMO-derived fucose and intimately linked with central metabolism. The impact of fucose and 2'FL metabolism on B. infantis physiology provides insight into the role of fucosylated HMOs in influencing host- and microbe-microbe interactions within the infant gut microbiome.
PXD020377	33330923	The versatile interactome of chloroplast ribosomes revealed by affinity purification mass spectrometry. 	The proteomic inventory reveals the chloroplast ribosome as nexus within a diverse protein network	Chlamydomonas Rheinhardtii, Chloroplast, LCMS, Ribosome	In plant cells, chloroplast gene expression is predominantly controlled through post-transcriptional regulation. Such fine-tuning is vital for precisely orchestrating protein complex assembly as for the photosynthesis machinery and for quickly responding to environmental changes. While regulation of chloroplast protein synthesis is of central importance, little is known about the degree and nature of the regulatory network, mainly due to challenges associated with the specific isolation of transient ribosome interactors. Here, we established a ribosome affinity purification method, which enabled us to broadly uncover putative ribosome-associated proteins in chloroplasts. Endogenously tagging of a protein of the large or small subunit revealed not only interactors of the holo complex, but also preferential interactors of the two subunits. This includes known canonical regulatory proteins as well as several new proteins belonging to the categories of protein and RNA regulation, photosystem biogenesis, redox control and metabolism. The sensitivity of the here applied screen was validated for various transiently interacting proteins. We further provided evidence for the existence of a ribosome-associated Nalpha-acetyltransferase in chloroplasts and its ability to acetylate substrate proteins at their N-terminus. The broad set of ribosome interactors underscores the potential to regulate chloroplast gene expression on the level of protein synthesis.
PXD022629	33331781	Automated Ligand Purification Platform Accelerates Immunopeptidome Analysis by Mass Spectrometry. 	High throughput and automated platform for MHC peptides purification	MHC immunoprecipitation automation	Major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-presented peptides (pMHC) give insight into T cell immune responses, a critical step toward developing a new generation of targeted immunotherapies. Recent instrumentation advances have propelled mass spectrometry to being arguably the most robust technology for discovering and quantifying naturally presented pMHC from cells and tissues. However, sample preparation has remained a major limitation due to time-consuming and labor-intensive workflows. We developed a high-throughput and automated platform with enhanced speed, sensitivity, and reproducibility relative to prior studies. This pipeline is capable of processing up to 96 samples in 6 h or less yielding high-quality pMHC mixtures ready for mass spectrometry. Here, we describe our efforts to optimize purification and mass spectrometer parameters, ultimately allowing us to identify as many as almost 5000 pMHC I and 7400 pMHC II from as little as 2.5 x 10(7) Raji cells each. We believe that this platform will facilitate and accelerate immunopeptidome profiling and benefit clinical research for immunotherapies.
PXD013662	33332123	Fast Deisotoping Algorithm and Its Implementation in the MSFragger Search Engine. 	Identification of mouse embryonic fibroblast secreted protein factors that are responsible for reprogramming human pluripotent stem cell metabolism	human pluripotent stem cell metabolism, mouse embryonic fibroblast	Deisotoping, or the process of removing peaks in a mass spectrum resulting from the incorporation of naturally occurring heavy isotopes, has long been used to reduce complexity and improve the effectiveness of spectral annotation methods in proteomics. We have previously described MSFragger, an ultrafast search engine for proteomics, that did not utilize deisotoping in processing input spectra. Here, we present a new, high-speed parallelized deisotoping algorithm, based on elements of several existing methods, that we have incorporated into the MSFragger search engine. Applying deisotoping with MSFragger reveals substantial improvements to database search speed and performance, particularly for complex methods like open or nonspecific searches. Finally, we evaluate our deisotoping method on data from several instrument types and vendors, revealing a wide range in performance and offering an updated perspective on deisotoping in the modern proteomics environment.
PXD018900	33332178	Inhaled multi-walled carbon nanotubes differently modulate global gene and protein expression in rat lungs. 	Inhaled Multi-Walled Carbon Nanotubes modulate differently global gene and protein expression in lung rats	Rat, inhalation, multi-walled carbon nanotubes, transcriptomics	Inhalation of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) induces lung inflammation. Depending on industrial applications, CNTs with different physicochemical characteristics are produced and workers can potentially be exposed. This raises concerns about the long-term health effects of these nanomaterials. Because of the wide variety of MWCNTs, it is essential to study the toxicological effects of CNTs of various shapes and to better understand the impact physical and chemical properties have on their toxicity. In this study, rats were exposed by nose-only to two pristine MWCNTs with different morphologies: the long and thick NM-401 or the short and thin NM-403. After four weeks of inhalation, animals were euthanized at four different times during the recovery period: three days (short-term), 30 and 90 days (intermediate-term) and 180 days (long-term). Analyses of the transcriptome in the whole lung and the proteome in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of exposed animals were performed to understand the MWCNT underlying mechanisms of toxicity. Following inhalation of NM-401, we observed a dose-dependent increase in the number of differentially expressed genes and proteins, whereas there is no clear difference between the two concentrations of NM-403. After NM-403 inhalation, the number of differentially expressed genes and proteins varied less between the four post-exposure times compared to NM-401, which supports the postulation of a persistent effect of this type of CNT. Our toxicogenomics approaches give insights into the different toxicological profile following MWCNT exposure.
PXD019079	33333401	Toxicogenomic fin(ger)prints for thyroid disruption AOP refinement and biomarker identification in zebrafish embryos. 	Quantitative proteome fin(ger)prints of propylthiouracil interference with the thyroid system in zebrafish embryos as 3R alternative in environmental hazard assessment	Ecotoxicological testing, Endocrine disruption, Zebrafish embryo, thyroid hormone	Endocrine disruption (ED) can trigger far-reaching effects on environmental populations, justifying a refusal of market approval for chemicals with ED properties. For the hazard assessment of ED effects on the thyroid system, regulatory decisions mostly rely on amphibian studies. Here, we used transcriptomics and proteomics for identifying molecular signatures of interference with thyroid hormone signaling preceding physiological effects in zebrafish embryos. For this, we analyzed the thyroid hormone 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3) and the thyroid peroxidase inhibitor 6-propyl-2-thiouracil (6-PTU) as model substances for increased and repressed thyroid hormone signaling in a modified zebrafish embryo toxicity test. We identified consistent gene expression fingerprints for both modes-of-action (MoA) at sublethal test concentrations. T3 and 6-PTU both significantly target the expression of genes involved in muscle contraction and functioning in an opposing fashion, allowing for a mechanistic refinement of key event relationships in thyroid-related adverse outcome pathways in fish. Furthermore, our fingerprints identify biomarker candidates for thyroid disruption hazard screening approaches. Perspectively, our findings will promote the AOP-based development of in vitro assays for thyroidal ED assessment, which in the long term will contribute to a reduction of regulatory animal tests.
PXD022170	33334074	Peritoneal Dialysis Fluid Supplementation with Alanyl-Glutamine Attenuates Conventional Dialysis Fluid-Mediated Endothelial Cell Injury by Restoring Perturbed Cytoprotective Responses. 	Endothelial pathomechanisms in response to in vitro peritoneal dialysis fluid exposure	Human umbilical vein endothelial cells, TMT, dialysis	Long-term clinical outcome of peritoneal dialysis (PD) depends on adequate removal of small solutes and water. The peritoneal endothelium represents the key barrier and peritoneal transport dysfunction is associated with vascular changes. Alanyl-glutamine (AlaGln) has been shown to counteract PD-induced deteriorations but the effect on vascular changes has not yet been elucidated. Using multiplexed proteomic and bioinformatic analyses we investigated the molecular mechanisms of vascular pathology in-vitro (primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells, HUVEC) and ex-vivo (arterioles of patients undergoing PD) following exposure to PD-fluid. An overlap of 1813 proteins (40%) of over 3100 proteins was identified in both sample types. PD-fluid treatment significantly altered 378 in endothelial cells and 192 in arterioles. The HUVEC proteome resembles the arteriolar proteome with expected sample specific differences of mainly immune system processes only present in arterioles and extracellular region proteins primarily found in HUVEC. AlaGln-addition to PD-fluid revealed 359 differentially abundant proteins and restored the molecular process landscape altered by PD fluid. This study provides evidence on validity and inherent limitations of studying endothelial pathomechanisms in-vitro compared to vascular ex-vivo findings. AlaGln could reduce PD-associated vasculopathy by reducing endothelial cellular damage, restoring perturbed abundances of pathologically important proteins and enriching protective processes.
PXD021969	33334871	Perilipin 5 S155 phosphorylation by PKA is required for the control of hepatic lipid metabolism and glycemic control. 	Protein kinase A phosphorylation of perilipin 5 on serine 155 regulates liver lipolysis via interactions with adipose triglyceride lipase	Fatty acid, Lipase, Lipid droplets, Lipid metabolism, Perilipin, Phosphorylation, Triglycerides	Perilipin 5 (PLIN5) is a lipid-droplet-associated protein that coordinates intracellular lipolysis in highly oxidative tissues and is thought to regulate lipid metabolism in response to phosphorylation by protein kinase A (PKA). We sought to identify PKA phosphorylation sites in PLIN5 and assess their functional relevance in cultured cells and the livers of mice. We detected phosphorylation on S155 and identified S155 as a functionally important site for lipid metabolism. Expression of phosphorylation-defective PLIN5 S155A in Plin5 null cells resulted in decreased rates of lipolysis and triglyceride-derived fatty acid oxidation. FLIM-FRET analysis of protein-protein interactions showed that PLIN5 S155 phosphorylation regulates PLIN5 interaction with adipose triglyceride lipase at the lipid droplet, but not with alpha-beta hydrolase domain-containing 5. Re-expression of PLIN5 S155A in the liver of Plin5 liver-specific null mice reduced lipolysis compared with wild-type PLIN5 re-expression, but was not associated with other changes in hepatic lipid metabolism. Furthermore, glycemic control was impaired in mice with expression of PLIN5 S155A compared with mice expressing PLIN5. Together, these studies demonstrate that PLIN5 S155 is required for PKA-mediated lipolysis and builds on the body of evidence demonstrating a critical role for PLIN5 in coordinating lipid and glucose metabolism.
PXD021577	33335099	A combined microphysiological-computational omics approach in dietary protein evaluation. 	Dietary protein  in vitro digest (LC-MS)	LC-MS, de novo, dietary protein, in vitro digest	Food security is under increased pressure due to the ever-growing world population. To tackle this, alternative protein sources need to be evaluated for nutritional value, which requires information on digesta peptide composition in comparison to established protein sources and coupling to biological parameters. Here, a combined experimental and computational approach is presented, which compared seventeen protein sources with cow's whey protein concentrate (WPC) as the benchmark. In vitro digestion of proteins was followed by proteomics analysis and statistical model-based clustering. Information on digesta peptide composition resulted in 3 cluster groups, primarily driven by the peptide overlap with the benchmark protein WPC. Functional protein data was then incorporated in the computational model after evaluating the effects of eighteen protein digests on intestinal barrier integrity, viability, brush border enzyme activity, and immune parameters using a bioengineered intestine as microphysiological gut system. This resulted in 6 cluster groups. Biological clustering was driven by viability, brush border enzyme activity, and significant differences in immune parameters. Finally, a combination of proteomic and biological efficacy data resulted in 5 clusters groups, driven by a combination of digesta peptide composition and biological effects. The key finding of our holistic approach is that protein source (animal, plant or alternative derived) is not a driving force behind the delivery of bioactive peptides and their biological efficacy.
PXD013910	33338687	IL-4 absence triggers distinct pathways in apical periodontitis development. 	Mouse tooth injury 21d IL4KO vs WT	21days, il4KO vs WT, tooth injury	Dental pulp is a specialized tissue able to respond to infectious processes. Nevertheless, infection progress and root canal colonization trigger an immune-inflammatory response in tooth-surrounding tissues, leading to apical periodontitis and bone tissue destruction, further contributing to tooth loss. In order to shed some light on the effects of IL-4 on periradicular pathology development modulation, microtomographic, histological and proteomic analyses were performed using 60 mice, 30 wild type and 30 IL-4(-)/(-). For that, 5 animals were used for microtomographic and histological analysis, and another 5 for proteomic analysis for 0, 7 and 21 days with/without pulp exposure. The periapical lesions were established in WT and IL-4(-)/(-) mice without statistical differences in their volume, and the value of p < 0.05 was adopted as significant in microtomographic and histological analyses. Regarding histological analysis, IL-4(-)/(-) mice show aggravation of pulp inflammation compared to WT. By using proteomic analysis, we have identified 32 proteins with increased abundance and 218 proteins with decreased abundance in WT animals after 21 days of pulp exposure, compared to IL-4(-)/(-) animals. However, IL-4(-)/(-) mice demonstrated faster development of apical periodontitis. These animals developed a compensatory mechanism to overcome IL-4 absence, putatively based on the identification of upregulated proteins related to immune system signaling pathways. Significance: IL-4 might play a protective role in diseases involving bone destruction and its activity may contribute to host protection, mainly due to its antiosteoclastogenic action.
PXD019437	33339827	The delta subunit and NTPase HelD institute a two-pronged mechanism for RNA polymerase recycling. 	Crosslinking/mass spectrometry analysis of Bacillus subtilis RNAP-Delta-HelD complexes	Bacillus RNAP, Crosslinking/mass spectrometry, HelD	Cellular RNA polymerases (RNAPs) can become trapped on DNA or RNA, threatening genome stability and limiting free enzyme pools, but how RNAP recycling into active states is achieved remains elusive. In Bacillus subtilis, the RNAP delta subunit and NTPase HelD have been implicated in RNAP recycling. We structurally analyzed Bacillus subtilis RNAP-delta-HelD complexes. HelD has two long arms: a Gre cleavage factor-like coiled-coil inserts deep into the RNAP secondary channel, dismantling the active site and displacing RNA, while a unique helical protrusion inserts into the main channel, prying the beta and beta' subunits apart and, aided by delta, dislodging DNA. RNAP is recycled when, after releasing trapped nucleic acids, HelD dissociates from the enzyme in an ATP-dependent manner. HelD abundance during slow growth and a dimeric (RNAP-delta-HelD)2 structure that resembles hibernating eukaryotic RNAP I suggest that HelD might also modulate active enzyme pools in response to cellular cues.
PXD006869	33340324	Overexpression and Inhibition of 3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl-CoA Synthase Affect Central Metabolic Pathways in Tobacco. 	SWATH-MS analysis of transgenic tobacco overexpressing 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase	HMGS, Nicotiana tabacum, SWATH, proteomics analysis	Little has been established on the relationship between the mevalonate (MVA) pathway and other metabolic pathways except for the sterol and glucosinolate biosynthesis pathways. In the MVA pathway, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase (HMGS) catalyzes the condensation of acetoacetyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA to form 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A. Our previous studies had shown that, while the recombinant Brassica juncea HMGS1 (BjHMGS1) mutant S359A displayed 10-fold higher enzyme activity than wild-type (wt) BjHMGS1, transgenic tobacco overexpressing S359A (OE-S359A) exhibited higher sterol content, growth rate and seed yield than OE-wtBjHMGS1. Herein, untargeted proteomics and targeted metabolomics were employed to understand the phenotypic effects of HMGS overexpression in tobacco by examining which other metabolic pathways were affected. Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra quantitative proteomics analysis on OE-wtBjHMGS1 and OE-S359A identified the misregulation of proteins in primary metabolism and cell wall modification, while some proteins related to photosynthesis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle were upregulated in OE-S359A. Metabolomic analysis indicated corresponding changes in carbohydrate, amino acid and fatty acid contents in HMGS-OEs, and F-244, a specific inhibitor of HMGS, was applied successfully on tobacco to confirm these observations. Finally, the crystal structure of acetyl-CoA-liganded S359A revealed that improved activity of S359A likely resulted from a loss in hydrogen bonding between Ser359 and acyl-CoA, which is evident in wtBjHMGS1. This work suggests that regulation of plant growth by HMGS can influence the central metabolic pathways. Furthermore, this study demonstrates that the application of the HMGS-specific inhibitor (F-244) in tobacco represents an effective approach for studying the HMGS/MVA pathway.
PXD017577	33344439	Proteome-Wide Alterations of Asymmetric Arginine Dimethylation Associated With Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Pathogenesis. 	Asymmetric dimethylarginine proteome of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.	Cancer cell line, Pancreas	Arginine methylation catalyzed by protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) performs essential roles in regulating cancer initiation and progression, but its implication in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) requires further elucidation. In this study, asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA)-containing peptides in PDAC cell line PANC-1 were identified by label-free quantitative proteomics combined with affinity purification, using human non-cancerous pancreatic ductal epithelium cell line HPDE6c7 as the control. In total, 289 ADMA sites in 201 proteins were identified in HPDE6c7 and PANC-1 cells, including 82 sites with lower dimethylation and 37 sites with higher dimethylation in PANC-1 cells compared with HPDE6c7 cells. These ADMA-containing peptides demonstrated significant enrichment of glycine and proline residues in both cell lines. Importantly, leucine residues were significantly enriched in ADMA-containing peptides identified only in HPDE6c7 cells or showing lower dimethylation in PANC-1 cells. ADMA-containing proteins were significantly enriched in multiple biological processes and signaling cascades associated with cancer development, such as spliceosome machinery, the Wnt/beta-catenin, Hedgehog, tumor growth factor beta (TGF-beta), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways. Moreover, PDAC cell lines with enhanced cell viability showed lower PRMT4 protein abundance and global ADMA-containing protein levels compared with HPDE6c7. PRMT4 overexpression partially recovered ADMA-containing protein levels and repressed viability in PANC-1 cells. These results revealed significantly altered ADMA-containing protein profiles in human pancreatic carcinoma cells, which provided a basis for elucidating the pathogenic roles of PRMT-mediated protein methylation in pancreatic cancer.
PXD022311	33345445	Cancer-secreted miRNAs regulate amino-acid-induced mTORC1 signaling and fibroblast protein synthesis. 	Cancer-secreted miRNAs regulate amino-acid-induced mTORC1 signaling and fibroblast protein synthesis	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), mass spec, silac	Metabolic reprogramming of non-cancer cells residing in a tumor microenvironment, as a result of the adaptations to cancer-derived metabolic and non-metabolic factors, is an emerging aspect of cancer-host interaction. We show that in normal and cancer-associated fibroblasts, breast cancer-secreted extracellular vesicles suppress mTOR signaling upon amino acid stimulation to globally reduce mRNA translation. This is through delivery of cancer-derived miR-105 and miR-204, which target RAGC, a component of Rag GTPases that regulate mTORC1 signaling. Following amino acid starvation and subsequent re-feeding, (13) C-arginine labeling of de novo synthesized proteins shows selective translation of proteins that cluster to specific cellular functional pathways. The repertoire of these newly synthesized proteins is altered in fibroblasts treated with cancer-derived extracellular vesicles, in addition to the overall suppressed protein synthesis. In human breast tumors, RAGC protein levels are inversely correlated with miR-105 in the stroma. Our results suggest that through educating fibroblasts to reduce and re-prioritize mRNA translation, cancer cells rewire the metabolic fluxes of amino acid pool and dynamically regulate stroma-produced proteins during periodic nutrient fluctuations.
PXD021426	33346308	Can cheese mites, maggots and molds enhance bioactivity? Peptidomic investigation of functional peptides in four traditional cheeses. 	Can cheese mites, maggots and molds enhance bioactivity? Peptidomic investigation of functional peptides in four traditional cheeses	bioactive, cheese, peptides	Aside from their amino acid content, dairy proteins are valuable for their ability to carry encrypted bioactive peptides whose activities are latent until released by digestive enzymes or endogenous enzymes within the food. Peptides can possess a wide variety of functionalities, such as antibacterial, antihypertensive, and antioxidative properties, as demonstrated by in vitro and in vivo studies. This phenomenon raises the question as to what impact various traditional cheese-making processes have on the formation of bioactive peptides in the resulting products. In this study, we have profiled the naturally-occurring peptides in two hard and two soft traditional cheeses and have identified their known bioactive sequences. While past studies have typically identified fewer than 100 peptide sequences in a single cheese, we have used modern instrumentation to identify between 2900 and 4700 sequences per cheese, an increase by a factor of about 50. We demonstrated substantial variations in proteolysis and peptide formation between the interior and rind of each cheese, which we ascribed to the differences in microbial composition between these regions. We identified a total of 111 bioactive sequences among the four cheeses, with the greatest number of sequences, 89, originating from Mimolette. The most common bioactivities identified were antimicrobial and inhibition of the angiotensin-converting enzyme. This work revealed that cheese proteolysis and the resulting peptidomes are more complex than originally thought in terms of the number of peptides released, variation in peptidome across sites within a single cheese, and variation in bioactive peptides among cheese-making techniques.
PXD022801	33347754	Metabolite Triplet in Serum Improves the Diagnostic Accuracy of Prediabetes and Diabetes Screening. 	A Metabolite Triplet in Serum Improves the Diagnostic Accuracy of Prediabetes and Diabetes Screening	Diabetes screening, Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, Metabolite markers, Metabolomics, Prediction of diabetes risk	Large-scale population screenings are not feasible by applying laborious oral glucose tolerance tests, but using fasting blood glucose (FPG) and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), a considerable number of diagnoses are missed. A novel marker is urgently needed to improve the diagnostic accuracy of broad-scale diabetes screening in easy-to-collect blood samples. In this study, by applying a novel knowledge-based, multistage discovery and validation strategy, we scaled down from 108 diabetes-associated metabolites to a diagnostic metabolite triplet (Met-T), namely hexose, 2-hydroxybutyric/2-hydroxyisobutyric acid, and phenylalanine. Met-T showed in two independent cohorts, each comprising healthy controls, prediabetic, and diabetic individuals, distinctly higher diagnostic sensitivities for diabetes screening than FPG alone (>79.6 vs <68%). Missed diagnoses decreased from >32% using fasting plasma glucose down to <20.4%. Combining Met-T and fasting plasma glucose further improved the diagnostic accuracy. Additionally, a positive association of Met-T with future diabetes risk was found (odds ratio: 1.41; p = 1.03 x 10(-6)). The results reveal that missed prediabetes and diabetes diagnoses can be markedly reduced by applying Met-T alone or in combination with FPG and it opens perspectives for higher diagnostic accuracy in broad-scale diabetes-screening approaches using easy to collect sample materials.
PXD019785	33349623	Biological characteristics of aging in human acute myeloid leukemia cells: the possible importance of aldehyde dehydrogenase, the cytoskeleton and altered transcriptional regulation. 	High and low risk of adverse acute myeloid leukemia (AML)	Acute myeloid leukemia risk	Patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) have a median age of 65-70 years at diagnosis. Elderly patients have more chemoresistant disease, and this is partly due to decreased frequencies of favorable and increased frequencies of adverse genetic abnormalities. However, aging-dependent differences may also contribute. We therefore compared AML cell proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiles for (i) elderly low-risk and younger low-risk patients with favorable genetic abnormalities; and (ii) high-risk patients with adverse genetic abnormalities and a higher median age against all low-risk patients with lower median age. Elderly low-risk and younger low-risk patients showed mainly phosphoproteomic differences especially involving transcriptional regulators and cytoskeleton. When comparing high-risk and low-risk patients both proteomic and phosphoproteomic studies showed differences involving cytoskeleton and immunoregulation but also transcriptional regulation and cell division. The age-associated prognostic impact of cyclin-dependent kinases was dependent on the cellular context. The protein level of the adverse prognostic biomarker mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) showed a similar significant upregulation both in elderly low-risk and elderly high-risk patients. Our results suggest that molecular mechanisms associated with cellular aging influence chemoresistance of AML cells, and especially the cytoskeleton function may then influence cellular hallmarks of aging, e.g. mitosis, polarity, intracellular transport and adhesion.
PXD018549	33352117	Lipid-derived electrophiles mediate the effects of chemotherapeutic topoisomerase I poisons. 	Topoisomerase I Poisoning by Electrophiles Derived from Oxidative Stress	Chemotherapy, Enzymology, Oxidative Stress, Q-Exactive, Topoisomerases	Topoisomerase 1 (Top1) reversibly nicks chromosomal DNA to relax strain accumulated during transcription, replication, chromatin assembly, and chromosome condensation. The Top1 poison camptothecin targets cancer cells by trapping the enzyme in the covalent complex Top1cc, tethered to cleaved DNA by a tyrosine-3'-phosphate bond. In vitro mechanistic studies point to interfacial inhibition, where camptothecin binding to the Top1-DNA interface stabilizes Top1cc. Here we present a complementary covalent mechanism that is critical in vivo. We observed that camptothecins induce oxidative stress, leading to lipid peroxidation, lipid-derived electrophile accumulation, and Top1 poisoning via covalent modification. The electrophile 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal can induce Top1cc on its own and forms a Michael adduct to a cysteine thiol in the Top1 active site, potentially blocking tyrosine dephosphorylation and 3' DNA phosphate release. Thereby, camptothecins may leverage a physiological cysteine-based redox switch in Top1 to mediate their selective toxicity to rapidly proliferating cancer cells.
PXD018586	33352881	Comparative Analysis of the Transcriptome, Proteome, and miRNA Profile of Kupffer Cells and Monocytes. 	COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE  PROTEOME OF KUPFFER CELLS AND MONOCYTES	Kuppfer cells, macrophages, monocytes	Macrophage populations in most mammalian organs consist of cells of different origin. Resident macrophages originate from erythromyeloid precursors of the yolk sac wall; maintenance of the numbers of such macrophages in postnatal ontogenesis is practically independent of bone marrow haematopoiesis. The largest populations of the resident macrophages of embryonic origin are found in the central nervous system (microglia) and liver (Kupffer cells). In contrast, skin dermis and mucous membranes become predominantly colonized by bone marrow-derived monocytes that show pronounced functional and phenotypic plasticity. In the present study, we compared Kupffer cells and monocytes using the immunophenotype, gene expression profile, proteome, and pool of microRNA. The observed differences did not consider the resident liver macrophages as purely M2 macrophages or state that monocytes have purely M1 features. Monocytes show signs of high plasticity and sensitivity to pathogen-associated molecular patterns (e.g., high levels of transcription for Tlr 2, 4, 7, and 8). In contrast, the resident liver macrophages were clearly involved in the regulation of specific organ functions (nitrogen metabolism, complement system protein synthesis).
PXD020403	33353564	Mitochondrial defects in the respiratory complex I contribute to impaired translational initiation via ROS and energy homeostasis in SMA motor neurons. 	Mitochondrial defects contribute to impaired translational in SMA motor neurons	SMN, Spinal muscular atrophy, initiation of mRNA translation, mitochondria, reactive oxygen species	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular disease characterized by loss of lower motor neurons, which leads to proximal muscle weakness and atrophy. SMA is caused by reduced survival motor neuron (SMN) protein levels due to biallelic deletions or mutations in the SMN1 gene. When SMN levels fall under a certain threshold, a plethora of cellular pathways are disturbed, including RNA processing, protein synthesis, metabolic defects, and mitochondrial function. Dysfunctional mitochondria can harm cells by decreased ATP production and increased oxidative stress due to elevated cellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Since neurons mainly produce energy via mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, restoring metabolic/oxidative homeostasis might rescue SMA pathology. Here, we report, based on proteome analysis, that SMA motor neurons show disturbed energy homeostasis due to dysfunction of mitochondrial complex I. This results in a lower basal ATP concentration and higher ROS production that causes an increase of protein carbonylation and impaired protein synthesis in SMA motor neurons. Counteracting these cellular impairments with pyruvate reduces elevated ROS levels, increases ATP and SMN protein levels in SMA motor neurons. Furthermore, we found that pyruvate-mediated SMN protein synthesis is mTOR-dependent. Most importantly, we showed that ROS regulates protein synthesis at the translational initiation step, which is impaired in SMA. As many neuropathies share pathological phenotypes such as dysfunctional mitochondria, excessive ROS, and impaired protein synthesis, our findings suggest new molecular interactions among these pathways. Additionally, counteracting these impairments by reducing ROS and increasing ATP might be beneficial for motor neuron survival in SMA patients.
PXD023258	33355089	BUB-1 targets PP2A:B56 to regulate chromosome congression during meiosis I in C. elegans oocytes. 	BUB-1 targets PP2A:B56 to regulates chromosome congression during meiosis I in C. elegans oocytes	BUB-1, PP2A/B56, SLiM, meiosis., phosphorylation	Protein Phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a heterotrimer composed of scaffolding (A), catalytic (C), and regulatory (B) subunits. PP2A complexes with B56 subunits are targeted by Shugoshin and BUBR1 to protect centromeric cohesion and stabilise kinetochore-microtubule attachments in yeast and mouse meiosis. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the closest BUBR1 orthologue lacks the B56-interaction domain and Shugoshin is not required for meiotic segregation. Therefore, the role of PP2A in C. elegans female meiosis is unknown. We report that PP2A is essential for meiotic spindle assembly and chromosome dynamics during C. elegans female meiosis. BUB-1 is the main chromosome-targeting factor for B56 subunits during prometaphase I. BUB-1 recruits PP2A:B56 to the chromosomes via a newly identified LxxIxE motif in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, and this recruitment is important for proper chromosome congression. Our results highlight a novel mechanism for B56 recruitment, essential for recruiting a pool of PP2A involved in chromosome congression during meiosis I.
PXD014134	33355532	Re-expression of SMARCA4/BRG1 in small cell carcinoma of ovary, hypercalcemic type (SCCOHT) promotes an epithelial-like gene signature through an AP-1-dependent mechanism. 	Re-expression of SMARCA4/BRG1 in Small Cell Carcinoma of Ovary, Hypercalcemic Type (SCCOHT) promotes an epithelial-like gene signature through an AP-1-dependent mechanism	ovarian carcinoma SMARCA4	Small cell carcinoma of the ovary, hypercalcemic type (SCCOHT) is a rare and aggressive form of ovarian cancer. SCCOHT tumors have inactivating mutations in SMARCA4 (BRG1), one of the two mutually exclusive ATPases of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex. To address the role that BRG1 loss plays in SCCOHT tumorigenesis, we performed integrative multi-omic analyses in SCCOHT cell lines +/- BRG1 reexpression. BRG1 reexpression induced a gene and protein signature similar to an epithelial cell and gained chromatin accessibility sites correlated with other epithelial originating TCGA tumors. Gained chromatin accessibility and BRG1 recruited sites were strongly enriched for transcription-factor-binding motifs of AP-1 family members. Furthermore, AP-1 motifs were enriched at the promoters of highly upregulated epithelial genes. Using a dominant-negative AP-1 cell line, we found that both AP-1 DNA-binding activity and BRG1 reexpression are necessary for the gene and protein expression of epithelial genes. Our study demonstrates that BRG1 reexpression drives an epithelial-like gene and protein signature in SCCOHT cells that depends upon by AP-1 activity.
PXD021523	33356312	BAC-DROP: Rapid Digestion of Proteome Fractionated via Dissolvable Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis and Its Application to Bottom-Up Proteomics Workflow. 	BAC-DROP: Rapid digestion of proteome fractionated via dissolvable polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and its application to bottom-up proteomics workflow	BAC-PAGE, GeLC-MS	The GeLC-MS workflow, which combines low-cost, easy-to-use sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS), is very popular in current bottom-up proteomics. However, GeLC-MS requires that PAGE-separated proteins undergo overnight enzymatic digestion in a gel, resulting in more than 20 h of sample preparation for LC-MS. In this study, we overcame the limitations of GeLC-MS by developing a rapid digestion workflow for PAGE separation of proteins using N,N'-bis(acryloyl)cystamine (BAC) cross-linked gels that can be solubilized by reductive treatment. Making use of an established workflow called BAC-DROP (BAC-gel dissolution to digest PAGE-resolved objective proteins), crude proteome samples were fractionated based on molecular weight by BAC cross-linked PAGE. After fractionation, the gel fragments were reductively dissolved in under 5 min, and in-solution trypsin digestion of the protein released from the gel was completed in less than 1 h at 70 degreesC, equivalent to a 90-95% reduction in time compared to conventional in-gel trypsin digestion. The introduction of the BAC-DROP workflow to the MS assays for inflammatory biomarker CRP and viral marker HBsAg allowed for serum sample preparation to be completed in as little as 5 h, demonstrating successful marker quantification from a 0.5 muL sample of human serum.
PXD022575	33356393	CROT (Carnitine O-Octanoyltransferase) Is a Novel Contributing Factor in Vascular Calcification via Promoting Fatty Acid Metabolism and Mitochondrial Dysfunction. 	Carnitine O-octanoyltransferase is a novel inducer of vascular calcification via promoting fatty acid metabolism and mitochondrial dysfunction	CROT, cardiovascular calcification, human primary smooth muscle cells	OBJECTIVE: Vascular calcification is a critical pathology associated with increased cardiovascular event risk, but there are no Food and Drug Administration-approved anticalcific therapies. We hypothesized and validated that an unbiased screening approach would identify novel mediators of human vascular calcification. Approach and Results: We performed an unbiased quantitative proteomics and pathway network analysis that identified increased CROT (carnitine O-octanoyltransferase) in calcifying primary human coronary artery smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Additionally, human carotid artery atherosclerotic plaques contained increased immunoreactive CROT near calcified regions. CROT siRNA reduced fibrocalcific response in calcifying SMCs. In agreement, histidine 327 to alanine point mutation inactivated human CROT fatty acid metabolism enzymatic activity and suppressed SMC calcification. CROT siRNA suppressed type 1 collagen secretion, and restored mitochondrial proteome alterations, and suppressed mitochondrial fragmentation in calcifying SMCs. Lipidomics analysis of SMCs incubated with CROT siRNA revealed increased eicosapentaenoic acid, a vascular calcification inhibitor. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated Crot deficiency in LDL (low-density lipoprotein) receptor-deficient mice reduced aortic and carotid artery calcification without altering bone density or liver and plasma cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations. CONCLUSIONS: CROT is a novel contributing factor in vascular calcification via promoting fatty acid metabolism and mitochondrial dysfunction, as such CROT inhibition has strong potential as an antifibrocalcific therapy.
PXD014740	33357414	Protein Synthesis in the Developing Neocortex at Near-Atomic Resolution Reveals Ebp1-Mediated Neuronal Proteostasis at the 60S Tunnel Exit. 	Protein synthesis in the developing neocortex at near-atomic resolution reveals Ebp1-mediated neuronal proteostasis at the 60S tunnel exit	Ebp1, Orbitrap, development, neocortex, proteostasis, ribosome	Protein synthesis must be finely tuned in the developing nervous system as the final essential step of gene expression. This study investigates the architecture of ribosomes from the neocortex during neurogenesis, revealing Ebp1 as a high-occupancy 60S peptide tunnel exit (TE) factor during protein synthesis at near-atomic resolution by cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM). Ribosome profiling demonstrated Ebp1-60S binding is highest during start codon initiation and N-terminal peptide elongation, regulating ribosome occupancy of these codons. Membrane-targeting domains emerging from the 60S tunnel, which recruit SRP/Sec61 to the shared binding site, displace Ebp1. Ebp1 is particularly abundant in the early-born neural stem cell (NSC) lineage and regulates neuronal morphology. Ebp1 especially impacts the synthesis of membrane-targeted cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), measured by pulsed stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (pSILAC)/bioorthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) mass spectrometry (MS). Therefore, Ebp1 is a central component of protein synthesis, and the ribosome TE is a focal point of gene expression control in the molecular specification of neuronal morphology during development.
PXD020964	33357429	CDK8 Fine-Tunes IL-6 Transcriptional Activities by Limiting STAT3 Resident Time at the Gene Loci. 	IL6-regulated CDk8-mediated phosphoproteome of human primary Th1 cells	CDK8 inhibitor, IL6, MSC2530818, human Th1 cells	Cytokines are highly pleiotropic ligands that regulate the immune response. Here, using interleukin-6 (IL-6) as a model system, we perform detailed phosphoproteomic and transcriptomic studies in human CD4(+) T helper 1 (Th-1) cells to address the molecular bases defining cytokine functional pleiotropy. We identify CDK8 as a negative regulator of STAT3 transcriptional activities, which interacts with STAT3 upon IL-6 stimulation. Inhibition of CDK8 activity, using specific small molecule inhibitors, reduces the IL-6-induced phosphoproteome by 23% in Th-1 cells, including STAT3 S727 phosphorylation. STAT3 binding to target DNA sites in the genome is increased upon CDK8 inhibition, which results in a concomitant increase in STAT3-mediated transcriptional activity. Importantly, inhibition of CDK8 activity under Th-17 polarizing conditions results in an enhancement of Th-17 differentiation. Our results support a model where CDK8 regulates STAT3 transcriptional processivity by modulation of its gene loci resident time, critically contributing to diversification of IL-6 responses.
PXD016063	33357443	Structural Differences in Translation Initiation between Pathogenic Trypanosomatids and Their Mammalian Hosts. 	Unique features of mRNA translation initiation in trypanosomatids	pre-initiation complex, translation, trypanosomatids	Canonical mRNA translation in eukaryotes begins with the formation of the 43S pre-initiation complex (PIC). Its assembly requires binding of initiator Met-tRNAi(Met) and several eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs) to the small ribosomal subunit (40S). Compared to their mammalian hosts, trypanosomatids present significant structural differences in their 40S, suggesting substantial variability in translation initiation. Here, we determine the structure of the 43S PIC from Trypanosoma cruzi, the parasite causing Chagas disease. Our structure shows numerous specific features, such as the variant eIF3 structure and its unique interactions with the large rRNA expansion segments (ESs) 9(S), 7(S), and 6(S), and the association of a kinetoplastid-specific DDX60-like helicase. It also reveals the 40S-binding site of the eIF5 C-terminal domain and structures of key terminal tails of several conserved eIFs underlying their activities within the PIC. Our results are corroborated by glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays in both human and T. cruzi and mass spectrometry data.
PXD021353	33361201	Salmonella enterica Serovars Dublin and Enteritidis Comparative Proteomics Reveals Differential Expression of Proteins Involved in Stress Resistance, Virulence, and Anaerobic Metabolism. 	Proteomic comparison between two Salmonella serovars with differential pathogenicity in humans.	"Salmonella Enteritidis", "Salmonella enterica serovar Dublin", "gut mimicking conditions"	The Enteritidis and Dublin serovars of Salmonella enterica are phylogenetically closely related yet differ significantly in host range and virulence. S Enteritidis is a broad-host-range serovar that commonly causes self-limited gastroenteritis in humans, whereas S Dublin is a cattle-adapted serovar that can infect humans, often resulting in invasive extraintestinal disease. The mechanism underlying the higher invasiveness of S Dublin remains undetermined. In this work, we quantitatively compared the proteomes of clinical isolates of each serovar grown under gut-mimicking conditions. Compared to S Enteritidis, the S Dublin proteome was enriched in proteins linked to response to several stress conditions, such as those encountered during host infection, as well as to virulence. The S Enteritidis proteome contained several proteins related to central anaerobic metabolism pathways that were undetected in S Dublin. In contrast to what has been observed in other extraintestinal serovars, most of the coding genes for these pathways are not degraded in S Dublin. Thus, we provide evidence that S Dublin metabolic functions may be much more affected than previously reported based on genomic studies. Single and double null mutants in stress response proteins Dps, YciF, and YgaU demonstrate their relevance to S Dublin invasiveness in a murine model of invasive salmonellosis. All in all, this work provides a basis for understanding interserovar differences in invasiveness and niche adaptation, underscoring the relevance of using proteomic approaches to complement genomic studies.
PXD019485	33361463	Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor Reduces Cocaine-Seeking and Downregulates Glutamatergic Synaptic Proteins in Medial Prefrontal Cortex. 	Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor reduces cocaine-seeking and downregulates glutamatergic synaptic proteins in medial prefrontal cortex	cocaine, glutamate, granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, neuroimmune, reinstatement	Psychostimulant use disorder is a major public health issue, and despite the scope of the problem there are currently no Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved treatments. There would be tremendous utility in development of a treatment that could help patients both achieve and maintain abstinence. Previous work from our group has identified granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) as a neuroactive cytokine that alters behavioral response to cocaine, increases synaptic dopamine release, and enhances cognitive flexibility. Here, we investigate the role of G-CSF in affecting extinction and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking and perform detailed characterization of its proteomic effects in multiple limbic substructures. Male Sprague Dawley rats were injected with PBS or G-CSF during (1) extinction or (2) abstinence from cocaine self-administration, and drug seeking behavior was measured. Quantitative assessment of changes in the proteomic landscape in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were performed via data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry analysis. Administration of G-CSF during extinction accelerated the rate of extinction, and administration during abstinence attenuated cue-induced cocaine-seeking. Analysis of global protein expression demonstrated that G-CSF regulated proteins primarily in mPFC that are critical to glutamate signaling and synapse maintenance. Taken together, these findings support G-CSF as a viable translational research target with the potential to reduce drug craving or seeking behaviors. Importantly, recombinant G-CSF exists as an FDA-approved medication which may facilitate rapid clinical translation. Additionally, using cutting-edge multiregion discovery proteomics analyses, these studies identify a novel mechanism underlying G-CSF effects on behavioral plasticity.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Pharmacological treatments for psychostimulant use disorder are desperately needed, especially given the disease's chronic, relapsing nature. However, there are currently no Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved pharmacotherapies. Emerging evidence suggests that targeting the immune system may be a viable translational research strategy; preclinical studies have found that the neuroactive cytokine granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) alters cocaine reward and reinforcement and can enhance cognitive flexibility. Given this basis of evidence we studied the effects of G-CSF treatment on extinction and reinstatement of cocaine seeking. We find that administration of G-CSF accelerates extinction and reduces cue-induced drug seeking after cocaine self-administration. In addition, G-CSF leads to downregulation of synaptic glutamatergic proteins in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), suggesting that G-CSF influences drug seeking via glutamatergic mechanisms.
PXD021575	33362259	A proteomics-based method for identifying antigens within immune complexes. 	A proteomics-based method for identifying antigens within immune complexes	Immune complexes, Influenza, Metaproteomics, Orbitrap	A novel approach to recover and identify immune complexes (ICs) was developed using size exclusion chromatography (SEC) and affinity chromatography on immunoglobulin binding columns (HiTrap Protein G). The purification process was monitored by 1D SDS-PAGE, protein staining, Western blotting and, finally, liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC MS/MS) was used to identify the recovered antigens. This approach was applied to serum with artificially created immune complexes (ICs) comprising vaccine antigen (influenza) and antibody, which led to recovery and identification of influenza peptides within the recovered ICs. This approach was compared with the established method for IC detection and recovery, polyethylene glycol (PEG) precipitation, followed by LC MS/MS. Both approaches successfully enabled capture, recovery and characterization of immunoglobulins and influenza antigen(s) in complex with the immunoglobulins. However, PEG precipitation has the advantage of simplicity and is more suited for large scale studies.
PXD022270	33362472	Synaptic Vesicles Dynamics in Neocortical Epilepsy. 	Synaptosome proteomics of tetanus neurotoxin-injected mice	Epilepsy, TMT, synaptosome, tetanus neurotoxin	Neuronal hyperexcitability often results from an unbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission, but the synaptic alterations leading to enhanced seizure propensity are only partly understood. Taking advantage of a mouse model of neocortical epilepsy, we used a combination of photoconversion and electron microscopy to assess changes in synaptic vesicles pools in vivo. Our analyses reveal that epileptic networks show an early onset lengthening of active zones at inhibitory synapses, together with a delayed spatial reorganization of recycled vesicles at excitatory synapses. Proteomics of synaptic content indicate that specific proteins were increased in epileptic mice. Altogether, our data reveal a complex landscape of nanoscale changes affecting the epileptic synaptic release machinery. In particular, our findings show that an altered positioning of release-competent vesicles represent a novel signature of epileptic networks.
PXD020800	33362738	Integrated Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analyses Reveal the Role of NprR in Bacillus anthracis Extracellular Protease Expression Regulation and Oxidative Stress Responses. 	label free analysis of Bacillus anthracis A16R  mutnat strain	Bacillus anthracis, extracellular protease, nprR deletion mutant strain	NprR is a protein of Bacillus anthracis that exhibits moonlighting functions as either a phosphatase or a neutral protease regulator that belongs to the RNPP family. We previously observed that the extracellular protease activity of an nprR deletion mutant significantly decreased within in vitro cultures. To identify the genes within the regulatory network of nprR that contribute to its protease activity, integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were conducted here by comparing the nprR deletion mutant and parent strains. A total of 366 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the strains were observed via RNA-seq analysis. In addition, label-free LC-MS/MS analysis revealed 503 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) within the intracellular protein fraction and 213 extracellular DEPs with significant expressional differences between the strains. The majority of DEGs and DEPs were involved in environmental information processing and metabolism. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses indicated that oxidation-reduction-related GO terms for intracellular DEPs and endopeptidase-related GO terms for extracellular DEPs were significantly enriched in the mutant strain. Notably, many genes involved in protease activity were largely downregulated in the nprR deletion mutant cultures. Moreover, western blot analysis revealed that the major extracellular neutral protease Npr599 was barely expressed in the nprR deletion mutant strain. The mutant also exhibited impaired degradation of protective antigen, which is a major B. anthracis toxin component, thereby resulting in higher protein yields. Concomitantly, another global transcriptional regulator, SpxA1, was also dramatically downregulated in the nprR deletion mutant, resulting in higher sensitivity to oxidative and disulfide stress. These data consequently indicate that NprR is a transcriptional regulator that controls genes whose products function as extracellular proteases and also is involved in oxidative stress responses. This study thus contributes to a more comprehensive understanding of the biological function of NprR, and especially in the middle growth stages of B. anthracis.
PXD022209	33362802	Relief of Cadmium-Induced Intestinal Motility Disorder in Mice by Lactobacillus plantarum CCFM8610. 	Human iTRAQ biological information analysis	cadmium, toxicity	Cadmium (Cd) is a toxic metal inducing a range of adverse effects on organs including liver and kidneys. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of Cd-induced intestinal toxicity through dietary intake is poorly studied. This study evaluated the toxic effects of Cd on intestinal physiology and confirmed the effectiveness of the protective mechanism of the probiotic Lactobacillus plantarum CCFM8610 against chronic Cd toxicity. After treatment with Cd, the HT-29 cell line was subjected to iTRAQ analysis, which revealed that changes in the proteomic profiles after Cd exposure were related to pathways involved in the stress response and carbohydrate metabolism. The results of an animal trial also indicated that 10 weeks of Cd exposure decreased the fecal water content and contractile response of colonic muscle strips in mice, and delayed the excretion time of the first black feces. L. plantarum CCFM8610 treatment provided protective effects against these Cd-induced intestinal motility dysfunctions by recovering the levels of neurotransmitters, including substance P, acetyl cholinesterase, vasoactive intestinal peptide, 5-hydroxytryptamine, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and nitric oxide, and suppressing the cellular stress response in mice (e.g., the inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways). The administration of this probiotic was also observed to reduce Cd levels in the tissues and blood of the mice. Our results suggest a newly identified protective mechanism of probiotics against Cd toxicity that involves the recovery of intestinal motility and increase in fecal cadmium excretion.
PXD020655	33363051	iTRAQ-Based Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Toxoplasma gondii Tachyzoites Provides Insight Into the Role of Phosphorylation for its Invasion and Egress. 	iTRAQ-based Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Toxoplasma gondii Tachyzoites at the lytic cycle of just invading and prior to egress	Tachyzoites, egress, invading, lytic cycle	The invasion and egress are two key steps in lytic cycle vital to the propagation of Toxoplasma gondii infection, and phosphorylation is believed to play important roles in these processes. However, the phosphoproteome of T. gondii at these two stages has not been characterized. In this study, we profiled the phosphoproteome of tachyzoites at the stages of "just invading" (JI) and "prior to egress" (PE) based on iTRAQ quantitative analysis, in which a total of 46 phosphopeptides, 42 phosphorylation sites, and 38 phosphoproteins were detected. In the comparison of PE vs. JI, 10 phosphoproteins were detected with their phosphorylation level significantly changed, and four of them were demonstrated to be significantly down-regulated at the transcriptional level. Bioinformatic analysis of these identified phosphoproteins suggested that phosphorylation-mediated modulation of protein function was employed to regulate the pathway of toxoplasmosis and metabolism and cellular processes correlated with tachyzoite's binding, location, and metabolism, and thus play vital roles in the parasite lytic cycle. Moreover, cytoskeletal network (CN)-associated Inner Membrane Complex (IMC1, IMC4, IMC6 and IMC12), Intravascular Network (IVN)-related GRAs (GRA2, GRA3, GRA7 and GRA12), and Parasitophorous Vacuole Membrane (PVM)-localized ROP5 were shown to be enriched at the central nodes in the protein interaction network generated by bioinformatic analysis, in which the phosphorylation level of IMC4, GRA2, GRA3, and GRA12 were found to be significantly regulated. This study revealed the main cellular processes and key phosphoproteins crucial for the invasion and egress of T. gondii, which will provide new insights into the developmental biology of T. gondii in vitro and contribute to the understanding of pathogen-host interaction from the parasite perspective.
PXD022662	33367571	Development of a multiplexed targeted mass spectrometry assay for LRRK2-phosphorylated Rabs and Ser910/Ser935 biomarker sites. 	Development of a multiplex targeted mass spectrometry assay to quantify levels of LRRK2 phosphorylated Rab substrates and Ser910 and Ser935 biomarker sites	LRRK2, PRM, Parkinsons disease, RAB-GTPases	Mutations that increase the protein kinase activity of LRRK2 are one of the most common causes of familial Parkinson's disease. LRRK2 phosphorylates a subset of Rab GTPases within their Switch-II motif, impacting interaction with effectors. We describe and validate a new, multiplexed targeted mass spectrometry assay to quantify endogenous levels of LRRK2-phosphorylated Rab substrates (Rab1, Rab3, Rab8, Rab10, Rab35 and Rab43) as well as total levels of Rabs, LRRK2 and LRRK2-phosphorylated at the Ser910 and Ser935 biomarker sites. Exploiting this assay, we quantify for the first time the relative levels of each of the pRab proteins in different cells (mouse embryonic fibroblasts, human neutrophils) and mouse tissues (brain, kidney, lung and spleen). We define how these components are impacted by Parkinson's pathogenic mutations (LRRK2[R1441C] and VPS35[D620N]) and LRRK2 inhibitors. We find that the VPS35[D620N], but not LRRK2[R1441C] mutation, enhances Rab1 phosphorylation in a manner blocked by administration of an LRRK2 inhibitor, providing the first evidence that endogenous Rab1 is a physiological substrate for LRRK2. We exploit this assay to demonstrate that in Parkinson's patients with VPS35[D620N] mutations, phosphorylation of multiple Rab proteins (Rab1, Rab3, Rab8, Rab10 and Rab43) is elevated. We highlight the benefits of this assay over immunoblotting approaches currently deployed to assess LRRK2 Rab signalling pathway.
PXD022449	33369073	Interaction with Ribosomal Proteins Accompanies Stress Induction of the Anticancer Metallodrug BOLD-100/KP1339 in the Endoplasmic Reticulum. 	Interaction with ribosomal proteins accompanies ER stress-induction of the anticancer metallodrug BOLD-100/KP1339	BOLD-100, KP1339, anticancer agents, target identification	The ruthenium-based anticancer agent BOLD-100/KP1339 has shown promising results in several in vitro and in vivo tumour models as well as in early clinical trials. However, its mode of action remains to be fully elucidated. Recent evidence identified stress induction in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and concomitant down-modulation of HSPA5 (GRP78) as key drug effects. By exploiting the naturally formed adduct between BOLD-100 and human serum albumin as an immobilization strategy, we were able to perform target-profiling experiments that revealed the ribosomal proteins RPL10, RPL24, and the transcription factor GTF2I as potential interactors of this ruthenium(III) anticancer agent. Integrating these findings with proteomic profiling and transcriptomic experiments supported ribosomal disturbance and concomitant induction of ER stress. The formation of polyribosomes and ER swelling of treated cancer cells revealed by TEM validated this finding. Thus, the direct interaction of BOLD-100 with ribosomal proteins seems to accompany ER stress-induction and modulation of GRP78 in cancer cells.
PXD020327	33369867	FAM111A induces nuclear dysfunction in disease and viral restriction. 	Activation of FAM111A Protease Induces Defects in Nuclear Function that Likely Underlie its Roles in Disease and Viral Restriction	FAM111A, KCS2, OCS, SV40polyomavirus, VACV	Mutations in the nuclear trypsin-like serine protease FAM111A cause Kenny-Caffey syndrome (KCS2) with hypoparathyroidism and skeletal dysplasia or perinatally lethal osteocraniostenosis (OCS). In addition, FAM111A was identified as a restriction factor for certain host range mutants of the SV40 polyomavirus and VACV orthopoxvirus. However, because FAM111A function is poorly characterized, its roles in restricting viral replication and the etiology of KCS2 and OCS remain undefined. We find that FAM111A KCS2 and OCS patient mutants are hyperactive and cytotoxic, inducing apoptosis-like phenotypes such as disruption of nuclear structure and pore distribution, in a protease-dependent manner. Moreover, wild-type FAM111A activity causes similar nuclear phenotypes, including the loss of nuclear barrier function, when SV40 host range mutants attempt to replicate in restrictive cells. Interestingly, pan-caspase inhibitors do not block these FAM111A-induced phenotypes, implying it acts independently or upstream of caspases. In this regard, we identify nucleoporins and the associated GANP transcription/replication factor as FAM111A interactors and candidate targets. Overall, we reveal a potentially unifying mechanism through which deregulated FAM111A activity restricts viral replication and causes KCS2 and OCS.
PXD020909	33369872	USP22 controls necroptosis by regulating receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 ubiquitination. 	USP22 controls necroptosis by regulating receptor interacting protein kinase 3 ubiquitination	cancer/MLKL/posttranslational modifications/RIPK1/ubiquitin hydrolase	Dynamic control of ubiquitination by deubiquitinating enzymes is essential for almost all biological processes. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 22 (USP22) is part of the SAGA complex and catalyzes the removal of mono-ubiquitination from histones H2A and H2B, thereby regulating gene transcription. However, novel roles for USP22 have emerged recently, such as tumor development and cell death. Apart from apoptosis, the relevance of USP22 in other programmed cell death pathways still remains unclear. Here, we describe a novel role for USP22 in controlling necroptotic cell death in human tumor cell lines. Loss of USP22 expression significantly delays TNFalpha/Smac mimetic/zVAD.fmk (TBZ)-induced necroptosis, without affecting TNFalpha-mediated NF-kappaB activation or extrinsic apoptosis. Ubiquitin remnant profiling identified receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 (RIPK3) lysines 42, 351, and 518 as novel, USP22-regulated ubiquitination sites during necroptosis. Importantly, mutation of RIPK3 K518 reduced necroptosis-associated RIPK3 ubiquitination and amplified necrosome formation and necroptotic cell death. In conclusion, we identify a novel role of USP22 in necroptosis and further elucidate the relevance of RIPK3 ubiquitination as crucial regulator of necroptotic cell death.
PXD018126	33370314	The plasticity of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex confers a labile structure that is associated with its catalytic activity. 	MudPIT analyses of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) isolated from Saccharomyces cerevisiae by FLAG-affinity purification and Size Exclusion Chromatography	FLAG affinity purification, pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC), size exclusion chromatography (SEC)	The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) is a multienzyme complex that plays a key role in energy metabolism by converting pyruvate to acetyl-CoA. An increase of nuclear PDC has been shown to be correlated with an increase of histone acetylation that requires acetyl-CoA. PDC has been reported to form a ~ 10 MDa macromolecular machine that is proficient in performing sequential catalytic reactions via its three components. In this study, we show that the PDC displays size versatility in an ionic strength-dependent manner using size exclusion chromatography of yeast cell extracts. Biochemical analysis in combination with mass spectrometry indicates that yeast PDC (yPDC) is a salt-labile complex that dissociates into sub-megadalton individual components even under physiological ionic strength. Interestingly, we find that each oligomeric component of yPDC displays a larger size than previously believed. In addition, we show that the mammalian PDC also displays this uncommon characteristic of salt-lability, although it has a somewhat different profile compared to yeast. We show that the activity of yPDC is reduced in higher ionic strength. Our results indicate that the structure of PDC may not always maintain its ~ 10 MDa organization, but is rather variable. We propose that the flexible nature of PDC may allow modulation of its activity.
PXD017822	33370419	The axonal sorting activity of pseudorabies virus Us9 protein depends on the state of neuronal maturation. 	The axonal sorting activity of pseudorabies virus Us9 protein depends on the state of neuronal maturation The axonal sorting activity of pseudorabies virus Us9 protein depends on the state of neuronal maturation	DDA, IP-MS, LFQ, PRV, TMT, Us9, Virus-host	Alpha-herpesviruses establish a life-long infection in the nervous system of the affected host; while this infection is restricted to peripheral neurons in a healthy host, the reactivated virus can spread within the neuronal circuitry, such as to the brain, in compromised individuals and lead to adverse health outcomes. Pseudorabies virus (PRV), an alpha-herpesvirus, requires the viral protein Us9 to sort virus particles into axons and facilitate neuronal spread. Us9 sorts virus particles by mediating the interaction of virus particles with neuronal transport machinery. Here, we report that Us9-mediated regulation of axonal sorting also depends on the state of neuronal maturation. Specifically, the development of dendrites and axons is accompanied with proteomic changes that influence neuronal processes. Immature superior cervical ganglionic neurons (SCGs) have rudimentary neurites that lack markers of mature axons. Immature SCGs can be infected by PRV, but they show markedly reduced Us9-dependent regulation of sorting, and increased Us9-independent transport of particles into neurites. Mature SCGs have relatively higher abundances of proteins characteristic of vesicle-transport machinery. We also identify Us9-associated neuronal proteins that can contribute to axonal sorting and subsequent anterograde spread of virus particles in axons. We show that SMPD4/nsMase3, a sphingomyelinase abundant in lipid-rafts, associates with Us9 and is a negative regulator of PRV sorting into axons and neuronal spread, a potential antiviral function.
PXD020167	33372269	Functional studies of CpSRP54 in diatoms show that the mechanism of thylakoid protein insertion differs from that in plants and green algae. 	Mass spectrometry of P. tricornutum proteome, Bohlin clone Pt1 8.6 (CCMP632) culture, cpsrp54-8, cpsrp54-11.	CRISPR, Cas9	The chloroplast signal recognition particle 54 kDa (CpSRP54) protein is a member of the CpSRP pathway known to target proteins to thylakoid membranes in plants and green algae. Loss of CpSRP54 in the marine diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum lowers the accumulation of a selection of chloroplast-encoded subunits of photosynthetic complexes, indicating a role in the co-translational part of the CpSRP pathway. In contrast to plants and green algae, absence of CpSRP54 does not have a negative effect on the content of light-harvesting antenna complex proteins and pigments in P. tricornutum, indicating that the diatom CpSRP54 protein has not evolved to function in the post-translational part of the CpSRP pathway. Cpsrp54 KO mutants display altered photophysiological responses, with a stronger induction of photoprotective mechanisms and lower growth rates compared to wild type when exposed to increased light intensities. Nonetheless, their phenotype is relatively mild, thanks to the activation of mechanisms alleviating the loss of CpSRP54, involving upregulation of chaperones. We conclude that plants, green algae, and diatoms have evolved differences in the pathways for co-translational and post-translational insertion of proteins into the thylakoid membranes.
PXD021373	33372950	Characterization of the Class I MHC Peptidome Resulting From DNCB Exposure of HaCaT Cells. 	Identification of sensitiser modified HLA-peptides presented by keratinocytes	DNCB, HLA, keratinocytes, peptidome	Skin sensitization following the covalent modification of proteins by low molecular weight chemicals (haptenation) is mediated by cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) recognition of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules presented on the surface of almost all nucleated cells. There exist 3 nonmutually exclusive hypotheses for how haptens mediate CTL recognition: direct stimulation by haptenated peptides, hapten modification of HLA leading to an altered HLA-peptide repertoire, or a hapten altered proteome leading to an altered HLA-peptide repertoire. To shed light on the mechanism underpinning skin sensitization, we set out to utilize proteomic analysis of keratinocyte presented antigens following exposure to 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB). We show that the following DNCB exposure, cultured keratinocytes present cysteine haptenated (dinitrophenylated) peptides in multiple HLA molecules. In addition, we find that one of the DNCB modified peptides derives from the active site of cytosolic glutathione-S transferase-omega. These results support the current view that a key mechanism of skin sensitization is stimulation of CTLs by haptenated peptides. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021373.
PXD014208	33373388	Phosphoproteomic analysis of lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) reveals starch and sucrose metabolism functions during bolting induced by high temperature. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) reveals starch and sucrose metabolism functions during bolting induced by high temperature	bolting, iTRAQ, kinases, lettuce, phosphoprotein	High temperatures induce early bolting in lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.), which decreases both quality and production. However, knowledge of the molecular mechanism underlying high temperature promotes premature bolting is lacking. In this study, we compared lettuce during the bolting period induced by high temperatures (33/25 degreesC, day/night) to which raised under controlled temperatures (20/13 degreesC, day/night) using iTRAQ-based phosphoproteomic analysis. A total of 3,814 phosphorylation sites located on 1,766 phosphopeptides from 987 phosphoproteins were identified after high-temperature treatment,among which 217 phosphoproteins significantly changed their expression abundance (116 upregulated and 101 downregulated). Most phosphoproteins for which the abundance was altered were associated with the metabolic process, with the main molecular functions were catalytic activity and transporter activity. Regarding the functional pathway, starch and sucrose metabolism was the mainly enriched signaling pathways. Hence, high temperature influenced phosphoprotein activity, especially that associated with starch and sucrose metabolism. We suspected that the lettuce shorten its growth cycle and reduce vegetative growth owing to changes in the contents of starch and soluble sugar after high temperature stress, which then led to early bolting/flowering. These findings improve our understanding of the regulatory molecular mechanisms involved in lettuce bolting.
PXD022586	33373640	A Novel Ca(2+) Signaling Pathway Coordinates Environmental Phosphorus Sensing and Nitrogen Metabolism in Marine Diatoms. 	Phosphorus-Ca2+ signalling in marine diatoms	Ca2+ signalling, Phaeodactylum tricornutum, marine diatoms, nitrogen metabolism, phosphorous metabolism	Diatoms are a diverse and globally important phytoplankton group, responsible for an estimated 20% of carbon fixation on Earth. They frequently form spatially extensive phytoplankton blooms, responding rapidly to increased availability of nutrients, including phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N). Although it is well established that diatoms are common first responders to nutrient influxes in aquatic ecosystems, little is known of the sensory mechanisms that they employ for nutrient perception. Here, we show that P-limited diatoms use a Ca(2+)-dependent signaling pathway, not previously described in eukaryotes, to sense and respond to the critical macronutrient P. We demonstrate that P-Ca(2+) signaling is conserved between a representative pennate (Phaeodactylum tricornutum) and centric (Thalassiosira pseudonana) diatom. Moreover, this pathway is ecologically relevant, being sensitive to sub-micromolar concentrations of inorganic phosphate and a range of environmentally abundant P forms. Notably, we show that diatom recovery from P limitation requires rapid and substantial increases in N assimilation and demonstrate that this process is dependent on P-Ca(2+) signaling. P-Ca(2+) signaling thus governs the capacity of diatoms to rapidly sense and respond to P resupply, mediating fundamental cross-talk between the vital nutrients P and N and maximizing diatom resource competition in regions of pulsed nutrient supply.
PXD023161	33374033	The modulation of the burn wound environment by negative pressure wound therapy: Insights from the proteome. 	Proteome of paediatric burn wound fluid collected via negative pressure wound therapy	NPWT, SWATH, blister fluid, burn, effluent, exudate, oedema fluid, paediatric	Negative pressure wound therapy has been used to promote wound healing in a variety of settings, including as an adjunct to silver-impregnated dressings in the acute management of paediatric burns. Fluid aspirated by the negative pressure wound therapy system represents a potentially insightful research matrix for understanding the burn wound microenvironment and the intervention's biochemical mechanisms of action. The aim of this study was to characterize the proteome of wound fluid collected using negative pressure wound therapy from children with small-area thermal burns. Samples were obtained as part of a randomized controlled trial investigating the clinical efficacy of adjunctive negative pressure wound therapy. They were compared with blister fluid specimens from paediatric burn patients matched according to demographic and injury characteristics. Protein identification and quantification were performed via liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra data-independent acquisition. Proteins and biological pathways that were unique to or enriched in negative pressure wound therapy fluid samples were evaluated using principal components, partial least squares-discriminant, and gene ontology enrichment analyses. Eight viable samples of negative pressure wound therapy fluid were collected and analyzed with eight matched blister fluid samples. A total of 502 proteins were quantitatively profiled in the negative pressure wound therapy fluid, of which 444 (88.4%) were shared with blister fluid. Several proteins exhibited significant abundance differences between fluid types, with negative pressure wound therapy fluid showing a higher abundance of matrix metalloproteinase-9, arginase-1, low affinity immunoglobulin gamma Fc region receptor III-A, filamin-A, alpha-2-macroglobulin, and hemoglobin subunit alpha. The results lend support to the hypothesis that negative pressure wound therapy augments wound healing through the modulation of factors involved in the inflammatory response, granulation tissue synthesis, and extracellular matrix maintenance. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD023168.
PXD023182	33374273	N-terminal VP1 Truncations Favor T = 1 Norovirus-Like Particles. 	N-terminal VP1 truncation favor T=1 norovirus-like particles	VP1 truncation, capsid assembly, norovirus	Noroviruses cause immense sporadic gastroenteritis outbreaks worldwide. Emerging genotypes, which are divided based on the sequence of the major capsid protein VP1, further enhance this public threat. Self-assembling properties of the human norovirus major capsid protein VP1 are crucial for using virus-like particles (VLPs) for vaccine development. However, there is no vaccine available yet. Here, VLPs from different variants produced in insect cells were characterized in detail using a set of biophysical and structural tools. We used native mass spectrometry, gas-phase electrophoretic mobility molecular analysis, and proteomics to get clear insights into particle size, structure, and composition, as well as stability. Generally, noroviruses have been known to form mainly T = 3 particles. Importantly, we identified a major truncation in the capsid proteins as a likely cause for the formation of T = 1 particles. For vaccine development, particle production needs to be a reproducible, reliable process. Understanding the underlying processes in capsid size variation will help to produce particles of a defined capsid size presenting antigens consistent with intact virions. Next to vaccine production itself, this would be immensely beneficial for bio-/nano-technological approaches using viral particles as carriers or triggers for immunological reactions.
PXD022807	33374539	Flow Cytometry Analysis of Circulating Extracellular Vesicle Subtypes from Fresh Peripheral Blood Samples. 	Flow Cytometry Analysis of Circulating Extracellular Vesicle Subtypes from Fresh Body Fluids	Biomarkers, Extracellular Vesicles, Fresh Peripheral Blood., Polychromatic Flow Cytometry	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released by shedding during different physiological processes and are increasingly thought to be new potential biomarkers. However, the impact of pre-analytical processing phases on the final measurement is not predictable and for this reason, the translation of basic research into clinical practice has been precluded. Here we have optimized a simple procedure in combination with polychromatic flow cytometry (PFC), to identify, classify, enumerate, and separate circulating EVs from different cell origins. This protocol takes advantage of a lipophilic cationic dye (LCD) able to probe EVs. Moreover, the application of the newly optimized PFC protocol here described allowed the obtainment of repeatable EVs counts. The translation of this PFC protocol to fluorescence-activated cell sorting allowed us to separate EVs from fresh peripheral blood samples. Sorted EVs preparations resulted particularly suitable for proteomic analyses, which we applied to study their protein cargo. Here we show that LCD staining allowed PFC detection and sorting of EVs from fresh body fluids, avoiding pre-analytical steps of enrichment that could impact final results. Therefore, LCD staining is an essential step towards the assessment of EVs clinical significance.
PXD022353	33374637	Pseudouridines of tRNA Anticodon Stem-Loop Have Unexpected Role in Mutagenesis in Pseudomonas sp. 	Proteomics of Pseudomonas putida PaW85 TruA and RluA deficient strains	Pseudomonas putida, RluA, TruA	Pseudouridines are known to be important for optimal translation. In this study we demonstrate an unexpected link between pseudouridylation of tRNA and mutation frequency in Pseudomonas species. We observed that the lack of pseudouridylation activity of pseudouridine synthases TruA or RluA elevates the mutation frequency in Pseudomonas putida 3 to 5-fold. The absence of TruA but not RluA elevates mutation frequency also in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Based on the results of genetic studies and analysis of proteome data, the mutagenic effect of the pseudouridylation deficiency cannot be ascribed to the involvement of error-prone DNA polymerases or malfunctioning of DNA repair pathways. In addition, although the deficiency in TruA-dependent pseudouridylation made P. putida cells more sensitive to antimicrobial compounds that may cause oxidative stress and DNA damage, cultivation of bacteria in the presence of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging compounds did not eliminate the mutator phenotype. Thus, the elevated mutation frequency in the absence of tRNA pseudouridylation could be the result of a more specific response or, alternatively, of a cumulative effect of several small effects disturbing distinct cellular functions, which remain undetected when studied independently. This work suggests that pseudouridines link the translation machinery to mutation frequency.
PXD021108	33374976	Comparative Proteomics of Marinobacter sp. TT1 Reveals Corexit Impacts on Hydrocarbon Metabolism, Chemotactic Motility, and Biofilm Formation. 	Comparative proteomics of Marinobacter sp. TT1 reveals Corexit impacts on hydrocarbon metabolism, chemotactic motility and biofilm formation	Corexit, Dispersant, Hexadecane, Hydrocarbon metabolism, Marinobacter sp. TT1, WAF	The application of chemical dispersants during marine oil spills can affect the community composition and activity of marine microorganisms. Several studies have indicated that certain marine hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria, such as Marinobacter spp., can be inhibited by chemical dispersants, resulting in lower abundances and/or reduced biodegradation rates. However, a major knowledge gap exists regarding the mechanisms underlying these physiological effects. Here, we performed comparative proteomics of the Deepwater Horizon isolate Marinobacter sp. TT1 grown under different conditions. Strain TT1 received different carbon sources (pyruvate vs. n-hexadecane) with and without added dispersant (Corexit EC9500A). Additional treatments contained crude oil in the form of a water-accommodated fraction (WAF) or chemically-enhanced WAF (CEWAF; with Corexit). For the first time, we identified the proteins associated with alkane metabolism and alginate biosynthesis in strain TT1, report on its potential for aromatic hydrocarbon biodegradation and present a protein-based proposed metabolism of Corexit components as carbon substrates. Our findings revealed that Corexit exposure affects hydrocarbon metabolism, chemotactic motility, biofilm formation, and induces solvent tolerance mechanisms, like efflux pumps, in strain TT1. This study provides novel insights into dispersant impacts on microbial hydrocarbon degraders that should be taken into consideration for future oil spill response actions.
PXD022685	33375274	Comparative Proteomics Analysis Reveals Unique Early Signaling Response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to Oxidants with Different Mechanism of Action. 	Comparative Proteomics Analysis Reveals Unique Early Signaling Response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to Oxidants with Different Mechanism of Action Prajita Pandey 1,, Khadiza Zaman 2, , Laszlo Prokai 2 , and Vladimir Shulaev 1,*	MAPK cascade, RAN signaling, TOR signaling, antioxidants, global untargeted proteomics, oxidative stress, reactive oxygen species	The early signaling events involved in oxidant recognition and triggering of oxidant-specific defense mechanisms to counteract oxidative stress still remain largely elusive. Our discovery driven comparative proteomics analysis revealed unique early signaling response of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae on the proteome level to oxidants with a different mechanism of action as early as 3 min after treatment with four oxidants, namely H2O2, cumene hydroperoxide (CHP), and menadione and diamide, when protein abundances were compared using label-free quantification relying on a high-resolution mass analyzer (Orbitrap). We identified significant regulation of 196 proteins in response to H2O2, 569 proteins in response to CHP, 369 proteins in response to menadione and 207 proteins in response to diamide. Only 17 proteins were common across all treatments, but several more proteins were shared between two or three oxidants. Pathway analyses revealed that each oxidant triggered a unique signaling mechanism associated with cell survival and repair. Signaling pathways mostly regulated by oxidants were Ran, TOR, Rho, and eIF2. Furthermore, each oxidant regulated these pathways in a unique way indicating specificity of response to oxidants having different modes of action. We hypothesize that interplay of these signaling pathways may be important in recognizing different oxidants to trigger different downstream MAPK signaling cascades and to induce specific responses.
PXD022880	33375472	Multi-Omics Revealed Molecular Mechanisms Underlying Guard Cell Systemic Acquired Resistance. 	Multi-omics revealed molecular mechanisms underlying guard cell systemic acquired resistance	Fatty acid, Guard cell, Immunity, Multi-omics, Redox, Systemic Acquired Resistance	Systemic Acquired Resistance (SAR) improves immunity of plant systemic tissue after local exposure to a pathogen. Guard cells that form stomatal pores on leaf surfaces recognize bacterial pathogens via pattern recognition receptors, such as Flagellin Sensitive 2 (FLS2). However, how SAR affects stomatal immunity is not known. In this study, we aim to reveal molecular mechanisms underlying the guard cell response to SAR using multi-omics of proteins, metabolites and lipids. Arabidopsis plants previously exposed to pathogenic bacteria Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pst) exhibit an altered stomatal response compared to control plants when they are later exposed to the bacteria. Reduced stomatal apertures of SAR primed plants lead to decreased number of bacteria in leaves. Multi-omics has revealed molecular components of SAR response specific to guard cells functions, including potential roles of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and fatty acid signaling. Our results show an increase in palmitic acid and its derivative in the primed guard cells. Palmitic acid may play a role as an activator of FLS2, which initiates stomatal immune response. Improved understanding of how SAR signals affect stomatal immunity can aid biotechnology and marker-based breeding of crops for enhanced disease resistance.
PXD022317	33376196	Global Lysine Acetylation and 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation Profiling Reveals the Metabolism Conversion Mechanism in Giardia lamblia. 	Global lysine acetylation and 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation reveal the metabolism conversion mechanism in Giardia lamblia	2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, Giardia lamblia, Metabolism conversion., acetylation	Giardia lamblia (G. lamblia) is the cause of giardiasis, a common infection that affects the general population of the world. Despite the constant possibility of damage because of their own metabolism, G. lamblia has survived and evolved to adapt to various environments. However, research on energy-metabolism conversion in G. lamblia is limited. This study aimed to reveal the dynamic metabolism conversion mechanism in G. lamblia under sugar starvation by detecting global lysine acetylation (Kac) and 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) sites combined with quantitative proteome analyses. A total of 2999 acetylation sites on 956 proteins and 8877 2-hydroxyisobutyryl sites on 1546 proteins were quantified under sugar starvation. Integrated Kac and Khib data revealed that modified proteins were associated with arginine biosynthesis, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolisms. These findings suggest that Kac and Khib were ubiquitous and provide deep insight into the metabolism conversion mechanism in G. lamblia under sugar starvation. Overall, these results can help delineate the biology of G. lamblia infections and reveal the evolutionary rule from prokaryote to eukaryote.
PXD020354	33376242	In-depth blood proteome profiling analysis revealed distinct functional characteristics of plasma proteins between severe and non-severe COVID-19 patients. 	In-depth plasma proteome profiling of COVID-19 patients	BoxCar, COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, label-free quantification, plasma	The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has infected over forty million patients worldwide. Although most coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients have a good prognosis, some develop severe illness. Markers that define disease severity or predict clinical outcome need to be urgently developed as the mortality rate in critical cases is approximately 61.5%. In the present study, we performed in-depth proteome profiling of undepleted plasma from eight COVID-19 patients. Quantitative proteomic analysis using the BoxCar method revealed that 91 out of 1222 quantified proteins were differentially expressed depending on the severity of COVID-19. Importantly, we found 76 proteins, previously not reported, which could be novel prognostic biomarker candidates. Our plasma proteome signatures captured the host response to SARS-CoV-2 infection, thereby highlighting the role of neutrophil activation, complement activation, platelet function, and T cell suppression as well as proinflammatory factors upstream and downstream of interleukin-6, interleukin-1B, and tumor necrosis factor. Consequently, this study supports the development of blood biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets to aid clinical decision-making and subsequently improve prognosis of COVID-19.
PXD017862	33376863	Cerebrospinal Fluid of Preeclamptic and Normotensive Pregnant Women Compared to Nonpregnant Women Analyzed with Mass Spectrometry. 	Cerebrospinal fluid of preeclamptic and normotensive pregnant women compared to non-pregnant women analyzed with mass spectrometry.	Blood-brain barrier, Calcium-binding proteins, Cerebrospinal fluid, Preeclampsia, Pregnancy	Preeclampsia is a pregnancy-specific multiorgan disorder in which impaired placental functioning and excessive oxidative stress play an important role. We previously showed distinct differences between cerebrospinal fluid proteins in patients with preeclampsia and normotensive pregnant women. An additional group of nonpregnant women was included to study the presence of pregnancy-related proteins in normotensive and preeclamptic pregnancies and whether pregnancy-related proteins were associated with preeclampsia. Cerebrospinal fluid samples were tryptically digested and subsequently measured with a nano-LC-tribrid Orbitrap mass spectrometry system. Proteins were identified by shotgun proteomic analysis based on a data-dependent acquisition method. Proteins identified in preeclampsia, normotensive pregnant controls, and nonpregnant groups were compared to the Progenesis method according to the criteria as previously described and with a secondary analysis using a Scaffold method including Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple testing. For preeclampsia, the Progenesis and the Scaffold method together identified 15 (eight proteins for both analyses with one overlap) proteins that were significantly different compared to normotensive control pregnancies. Three of these 15 proteins, which were elevated in cerebrospinal fluid of preeclamptic women, were described to be pregnancy proteins with a calcium-binding function. Using two analysis methods (Progenesis and Scaffold), four out of 15 differential proteins were associated with pregnancy, as described in the literature. Three out of the four pregnancy-related proteins were elevated in preeclampsia. Furthermore, the contribution of elevated (n = 4/15) and downregulated (n = 2/15) calcium-binding proteins in preeclampsia is remarkably high (40%) and needs to be elucidated further.
PXD021758	33378226	The TRIM9/TRIM67 neuronal interactome reveals novel activators of morphogenesis. 	TRIM9 and TRIM67 interactome using the BioID approach	Embryonic cortical neurons, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos	TRIM9 and TRIM67 are neuronally enriched E3 ubiquitin ligases essential for appropriate morphogenesis of cortical and hippocampal neurons and fidelitous responses to the axon guidance cue netrin-1. Deletion of murine Trim9 or Trim67 results in neuroanatomical defects and striking behavioral deficits, particularly in spatial learning and memory. TRIM9 and TRIM67 interact with cytoskeletal and exocytic proteins, but the full interactome is not known. Here we performed the unbiased proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID) approach to define TRIM9 and TRIM67 protein-protein proximity network in developing cortical neurons and identified putative neuronal TRIM interaction partners. Candidates included cytoskeletal regulators, cytosolic protein transporters, exocytosis and endocytosis regulators, and proteins necessary for synaptic regulation. A subset of high-priority candidates was validated, including Myo16, Coro1A, MAP1B, ExoC1, GRIP1, PRG-1, and KIF1A. For a subset of validated candidates, we utilized total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy to demonstrate dynamic colocalization with TRIM proteins at the axonal periphery, including at the tips of filopodia. Further analysis demonstrated that the RNA interference-based knockdown of the unconventional myosin Myo16 in cortical neurons altered growth cone filopodia density and axonal branching patterns in a TRIM9- and netrin-1-dependent manner. Future analysis of other validated candidates will likely identify novel proteins and mechanisms by which TRIM9 and TRIM67 regulate neuronal form and function. [Media: see text].
PXD017960	33380522	TrkC Is Essential for Nephron Function and Trans-Activates Igf1R Signaling. 	Novel role of TrkC in diabetic nephropathy and cross-talk of TrkC with insulin-related signaling	Ntf3, TrkC, diabetic nephropathy, neurotrophin, phosphoproteomics, podocyte	BACKGROUND: Injury to kidney podocytes often results in chronic glomerular disease and consecutive nephron malfunction. For most glomerular diseases, targeted therapies are lacking. Thus, it is important to identify novel signaling pathways contributing to glomerular disease. Neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor 3 (TrkC) is expressed in podocytes and the protein transmits signals to the podocyte actin cytoskeleton. METHODS: Nephron-specific TrkC knockout (TrkC-KO) and nephron-specific TrkC-overexpressing (TrkC-OE) mice were generated to dissect the role of TrkC in nephron development and maintenance. RESULTS: Both TrkC-KO and TrkC-OE mice exhibited enlarged glomeruli, mesangial proliferation, basement membrane thickening, albuminuria, podocyte loss, and aspects of FSGS during aging. Igf1 receptor (Igf1R)-associated gene expression was dysregulated in TrkC-KO mouse glomeruli. Phosphoproteins associated with insulin, erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase (Erbb), and Toll-like receptor signaling were enriched in lysates of podocytes treated with the TrkC ligand neurotrophin-3 (Nt-3). Activation of TrkC by Nt-3 resulted in phosphorylation of the Igf1R on activating tyrosine residues in podocytes. Igf1R phosphorylation was increased in TrkC-OE mouse kidneys while it was decreased in TrkC-KO kidneys. Furthermore, TrkC expression was elevated in glomerular tissue of patients with diabetic kidney disease compared with control glomerular tissue. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that TrkC is essential for maintaining glomerular integrity. Furthermore, TrkC modulates Igf-related signaling in podocytes.
PXD020322	33381824	New mixture models for decoy-free false discovery rate estimation in mass spectrometry proteomics. 	New mixture models for decoy-free false discovery rate estimation in mass-spectrometry proteomics	bioinformatics, decoy-free framework, false discovery rate	MOTIVATION: Accurate estimation of false discovery rate (FDR) of spectral identification is a central problem in mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Over the past two decades, target-decoy approaches (TDAs) and decoy-free approaches (DFAs) have been widely used to estimate FDR. TDAs use a database of decoy species to faithfully model score distributions of incorrect peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs). DFAs, on the other hand, fit two-component mixture models to learn the parameters of correct and incorrect PSM score distributions. While conceptually straightforward, both approaches lead to problems in practice, particularly in experiments that push instrumentation to the limit and generate low fragmentation-efficiency and low signal-to-noise-ratio spectra. RESULTS: We introduce a new decoy-free framework for FDR estimation that generalizes present DFAs while exploiting more search data in a manner similar to TDAs. Our approach relies on multi-component mixtures, in which score distributions corresponding to the correct PSMs, best incorrect PSMs and second-best incorrect PSMs are modeled by the skew normal family. We derive EM algorithms to estimate parameters of these distributions from the scores of best and second-best PSMs associated with each experimental spectrum. We evaluate our models on multiple proteomics datasets and a HeLa cell digest case study consisting of more than a million spectra in total. We provide evidence of improved performance over existing DFAs and improved stability and speed over TDAs without any performance degradation. We propose that the new strategy has the potential to extend beyond peptide identification and reduce the need for TDA on all analytical platforms. AVAILABILITYAND IMPLEMENTATION: https://github.com/shawn-peng/FDR-estimation. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
PXD019973	33382950	The gut bacterium Extibacter muris produces secondary bile acids and influences liver physiology in gnotobiotic mice. 	The gut bacterium Extibacter muris produces secondary bile acids and influences liver physiology in gnotobiotic mice - Proteomics results	Extibacter muris, Liver, TMT	Extibacter muris is a newly described mouse gut bacterium which metabolizes cholic acid (CA) to deoxycholic acid (DCA) via 7alpha-dehydroxylation. Although bile acids influence metabolic and inflammatory responses, few in vivo models exist for studying their metabolism and impact on the host. Mice were colonized from birth with the simplified community Oligo-MM(12) with or without E. muris. As the metabolism of bile acids is known to affect lipid homeostasis, mice were fed either a low- or high-fat diet for eight weeks before sampling and analyses targeting the gut and liver. Multiple Oligo-MM(12) strains were capable of deconjugating primary bile acids in vitro. E. muris produced DCA from CA either as pure compound or in mouse bile. This production was inducible by CA in vitro. Ursodeoxycholic, chenodeoxycholic, and beta-muricholic acid were not metabolized under the conditions tested. All gnotobiotic mice were stably colonized with E. muris, which showed higher relative abundances after HF diet feeding. The presence of E. muris had minor, diet-dependent effects on Oligo-MM(12) communities. The secondary bile acids DCA and surprisingly LCA and their taurine conjugates were detected exclusively in E. muris-colonized mice. E. muris colonization did not influence body weight, white adipose tissue mass, liver histopathology, hepatic aspartate aminotransferase, or blood levels of cholesterol, insulin, and paralytic peptide (PP). However, proteomics revealed shifts in hepatic pathways involved in amino acid, glucose, lipid, energy, and drug metabolism in E. muris-colonized mice. Liver fatty acid composition was substantially altered by dietary fat but not by E. muris.In summary, E. muris stably colonized the gut of mice harboring a simplified community and produced secondary bile acids, which affected proteomes in the liver. This new gnotobiotic mouse model can now be used to study the pathophysiological role of secondary bile acids in vivo.
PXD021250	33383959	The Proteomic Landscape of Resting and Activated CD4+ T Cells Reveal Insights into Cell Differentiation and Function. 	A proteomic map of resting and activated CD4+ T cells	CD4+ T helper cells, T lymphocytes, adaptive immunity, label-free quantitation, systems biology	CD4+ T cells (T helper cells) are cytokine-producing adaptive immune cells that activate or regulate the responses of various immune cells. The activation and functional status of CD4+ T cells is important for adequate responses to pathogen infections but has also been associated with auto-immune disorders and survival in several cancers. In the current study, we carried out a label-free high-resolution FTMS-based proteomic profiling of resting and T cell receptor-activated (72 h) primary human CD4+ T cells from peripheral blood of healthy donors as well as SUP-T1 cells. We identified 5237 proteins, of which significant alterations in the levels of 1119 proteins were observed between resting and activated CD4+ T cells. In addition to identifying several known T-cell activation-related processes altered expression of several stimulatory/inhibitory immune checkpoint markers between resting and activated CD4+ T cells were observed. Network analysis further revealed several known and novel regulatory hubs of CD4+ T cell activation, including IFNG, IRF1, FOXP3, AURKA, and RIOK2. Comparison of primary CD4+ T cell proteomic profiles with human lymphoblastic cell lines revealed a substantial overlap, while comparison with mouse CD+ T cell data suggested interspecies proteomic differences. The current dataset will serve as a valuable resource to the scientific community to compare and analyze the CD4+ proteome.
PXD020568	33385108	Comprehensive Characterization of Nanosized Extracellular Vesicles from Central and Peripheral Organs : Implications for Preclinical and Clinical Applications. 	Rat EV proteins isolated from different tissues	EV, Rat	Extracellular vesicles (EV) are nano-sized vesicles that have been garnering a lot of attention for their valuable role as potential diagnostic markers and therapeutic vehicles for a plethora of pathologies. Whilst EV markers from biofluids such as plasma, serum, urine, cerebrospinal fluid and in vitro cell culture based platforms have been extensively studied, a significant knowledge gap that remains is the characterization of specific organ derived EVs (ODE). Here, we present a standardized protocol for isolation and characterization of purified EV isolated from brain, heart, lung, kidney and liver from rat and postmortem human tissue. Next, using quantitative mass spectrometry based proteomics, we characterized the respective tissue EV proteomes that identified synaptophysin (SYP), caveolin-3 (CAV3), solute carrier family 22 member 2 (SLC22A2), surfactant protein B (SP-B), and fatty acid-binding protein 1 (FABP1) as potential markers for the brain, heart, kidney, lung, and liver-EV, respectively. These respective tissue specific markers were further validated using both immunoblotting and a nanoplasmonic platform- single EV imaging analysis in the two species. To summarize, our study for the first time using traditional biochemical and high precision technology platforms provide a valuable proof of concept approach in defining specific ODE markers which further could be developed as potential therapeutic candidates for respective end-organ associated pathologies.
PXD020368	33385163	CDC25B partners with PP2A to induce AMPK activation and tumor suppression in triple negative breast cancer. 	Identify proteins that interact with CDC25B	CDC25B	Cell division cycle 25 (CDC25) dual specificity phosphatases positively regulate the cell cycle by activating cyclin-dependent kinase/cyclin complexes. Here, we demonstrate that in addition to its role in cell cycle regulation, CDC25B functions as a regulator of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), a major cellular Ser/Thr phosphatase, through its direct interaction with PP2A catalytic subunit. Importantly, CDC25B alters the regulation of AMP-activated protein kinase signaling (AMPK) by PP2A, increasing AMPK activity by inhibiting PP2A to dephosphorylate AMPK. CDC25B depletion leads to metformin resistance by inhibiting metformin-induced AMPK activation. Furthermore, dual inhibition of CDC25B and PP2A further inhibits growth of 3D organoids isolated from patient derived xenograft model of breast cancer compared to CDC25B inhibition alone. Our study identifies CDC25B as a regulator of PP2A, and uncovers a mechanism of controlling the activity of a key energy metabolism marker, AMPK.
PXD049088	33387269	Zone of Interaction Between the Parasite and the Host: Protein Profile of the Body Cavity Fluid of Gasterosteus aculeatus L. Infected with the Cestode Schistocephalus solidus (Muller, 1776). 	The protein profiles of washes from the body cavity of Gasterosteus aculeatus L., infected with the Schistocephalus solidus, and from the surface of the helminth	Gasterosteus aculeatus, Schistocephalus solidus, excretory-secretory proteins, host-parasite interaction	PURPOSE: During infection, the host and the parasite "communicate" with each other through various molecules, including proteins. The aim of this study was to describe the excretory-secretory proteins from the helminth Schistocephalus solidus and its intermediate host, the three-spined stickleback Gasterosteus aculeatus L., which are likely to be involved in interactions between them. METHODS: Combined samples of washes from the G. aculeatus sticklebacks cavity infected with the S. solidus, and washes from the parasite surface were used as experimental samples, while washes from the uninfected fish body cavity were used as control. The obtained samples were analyzed using mass-spectrometry nLC-MS/MS. RESULTS: As a result of mass-spectrometry analysis 215 proteins were identified. Comparative quantitative analysis revealed significant differences in LFQ intensity between experimental and control samples for 20 stickleback proteins. In the experimental samples, we found an increase in the content of serpins, plasminogen, angiotensin 1-10, complement component C9, and a decrease in the content of triosephosphate isomerase, creatine kinase, fructose-biphosphate aldolase, superoxide dismutase, peroxidoxin-1, homocysteine-binding and fatty acid-binding proteins, compared to uninfected fish samples. In the experimental group washes, 30 S. solidus proteins were found, including malate dehydrogenase, annexin family proteins, serpins, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase and fatty acid-binding protein. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, the protein composition of washes from the helminth S. solidus surface and the body cavity of infected and uninfected stickleback G. aculeatus were studied. As a result, it was shown that various components of the immune defense system predominated in the washes of infected fish and helminths.
PXD014916	33388061	Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling revealed reprogramming of carbon metabolism in acetate-grown human pathogen Candida glabrata. 	Proteomic responses of Candida glabrata to acetate as the sole carbon source	Candida glabrata, acetate, alternative carbon sources, glucose	BACKGROUND: Emergence of Candida glabrata, which causes potential life-threatening invasive candidiasis, has been widely associated with high morbidity and mortality. In order to cause disease in vivo, a robust and highly efficient metabolic adaptation is crucial for the survival of this fungal pathogen in human host. In fact, reprogramming of the carbon metabolism is believed to be indispensable for phagocytosed C. glabrata within glucose deprivation condition during infection. METHODS: In this study, the metabolic responses of C. glabrata under acetate growth condition was explored using high-throughput transcriptomic and proteomic approaches. RESULTS: Collectively, a total of 1482 transcripts (26.96%) and 242 proteins (24.69%) were significantly up- or down-regulated. Both transcriptome and proteome data revealed that the regulation of alternative carbon metabolism in C. glabrata resembled other fungal pathogens such as Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans, with up-regulation of many proteins and transcripts from the glyoxylate cycle and gluconeogenesis, namely isocitrate lyase (ICL1), malate synthase (MLS1), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK1) and fructose 1,6-biphosphatase (FBP1). In the absence of glucose, C. glabrata shifted its metabolism from glucose catabolism to anabolism of glucose intermediates from the available carbon source. This observation essentially suggests that the glyoxylate cycle and gluconeogenesis are potentially critical for the survival of phagocytosed C. glabrata within the glucose-deficient macrophages. CONCLUSION: Here, we presented the first global metabolic responses of C. glabrata to alternative carbon source using transcriptomic and proteomic approaches. These findings implicated that reprogramming of the alternative carbon metabolism during glucose deprivation could enhance the survival and persistence of C. glabrata within the host.
PXD021730	33388180	Proteomic analysis of honey. Identification of unique peptide markers for authentication of NZ manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) honey. 	Discovery of unique peptide markers in NZ mnuka (Leptospermum scoparium) honey	Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Peptide markers, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), mnuka honey (Leptospermum scoparium)	Proteomics is an emerging tool in food authentication that has not been optimised for honey analysis. In this study, we present a qualitative proteomic analysis of New Zealand manuka (Leptospermum scoparium) honey. A total of fifty bee-derived proteins were identified in the honey, the most predominant being major royal jelly proteins (MRJPs). We also demonstrate for the first time the presence of unique nectar-derived proteins in manuka honey. A total of 17 manuka plant proteins were identified, a-third of which were putative pathogenesis-related proteins. Two proteins involved in drought tolerance were also identified. Twelve candidate peptides were selected as potential authentication markers based on their uniqueness to manuka honey. Nectar analyses confirmed the origin and specificity of these peptides to L. scoparium nectar, thus presenting peptide profiling as a viable and novel approach for manuka honey authentication. Raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021730.
PXD018296	33388318	mTORC1 and mTORC2 Converge on the Arp2/3 Complex to Promote Kras(G12D)-Induced Acinar-to-Ductal Metaplasia and Early Pancreatic Carcinogenesis. 	mTORC1 and mTORC2 converge on the Arp2/3 complex to promote KrasG12D-induced acinar-to-ductal metaplasia and early pancreatic carcinogenesis	ADM, Arp2/3 complex, actin rearrangement, mTOR, pancreatic cancer	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Oncogenic Kras(G12D) induces neoplastic transformation of pancreatic acinar cells through acinar-to-ductal metaplasia (ADM), an actin-based morphogenetic process, and drives pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). mTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (mTORC1) and 2 (mTORC2) contain Rptor and Rictor, respectively, and are activated downstream of Kras(G12D), thereby contributing to PDAC. Yet, whether and how mTORC1 and mTORC2 impact on ADM and the identity of the actin nucleator(s) mediating such actin rearrangements remain unknown. METHODS: A mouse model of inflammation-accelerated Kras(G12D)-driven early pancreatic carcinogenesis was used. Rptor, Rictor, and Arpc4 (actin-related protein 2/3 complex subunit 4) were conditionally ablated in acinar cells to deactivate the function of mTORC1, mTORC2 and the actin-related protein (Arp) 2/3 complex, respectively. RESULTS: We found that mTORC1 and mTORC2 are markedly activated in human and mouse ADM lesions, and cooperate to promote Kras(G12D)-driven ADM in mice and in vitro. They use the Arp2/3 complex as a common downstream effector to induce the remodeling the actin cytoskeleton leading to ADM. In particular, mTORC1 regulates the translation of Rac1 (Rac family small GTPase 1) and the Arp2/3-complex subunit Arp3, whereas mTORC2 activates the Arp2/3 complex by promoting Akt/Rac1 signaling. Consistently, genetic ablation of the Arp2/3 complex prevents Kras(G12D)-driven ADM in vivo. In acinar cells, the Arp2/3 complex and its actin-nucleation activity mediated the formation of a basolateral actin cortex, which is indispensable for ADM and pre-neoplastic transformation. CONCLUSIONS: Here, we show that mTORC1 and mTORC2 attain a dual, yet nonredundant regulatory role in ADM and early pancreatic carcinogenesis by promoting Arp2/3 complex function. The role of Arp2/3 complex as a common effector of mTORC1 and mTORC2 fills the gap between oncogenic signals and actin dynamics underlying PDAC initiation.
PXD020875	33391233	A Fast, Efficient and Easy to Implement Method to Purify Bacterial Pili From Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG Based on Multimodal Chromatography. 	An improved protocol to purify bacterial pili from Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG based on multimodal chromatography	AFM, Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG, SpaCBA pili, light scattering, multimodal chromatography, purification	Pili are polymeric proteins located at the cell surface of bacteria. These filamentous proteins play a pivotal role in bacterial adhesion with the surrounding environment. They are found both in Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria but differ in their structural organization. Purifying these high molecular weight proteins is challenging and has certainly slowed down their characterization. Here, we propose a chromatography-based protocol, mainly relying on multimodal chromatography (core bead technology using Capto Core 700 resin), to purify sortase-dependent SpaCBA pili from the probiotic strain Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG). Contrary to previously published methods, this purification protocol does not require specific antibodies nor complex laboratory equipment, including for the multimodal chromatography step, and provides high degree of protein purity. No other proteins were detectable by SDS-PAGE and the 260/280 nm ratio (~0.6) of the UV spectrum confirmed the absence of any other co-purified macromolecules. One can obtain ~50 mug of purified pili, starting from 1 L culture at OD600nm =~ 1, in 2-3 working days. This simple protocol could be useful to numerous laboratories to purify pili from LGG easily. Therefore, the present work should boost specific studies dedicated to LGG SpaCBA pili and the characterization of the interactions occurring with their protein partners at the molecular level. Moreover, this straightforward purification process might be extended to the purification of sortase-dependant pili from other Gram-positive bacteria.
PXD022570	33391243	Signal Recognition Particle RNA Contributes to Oxidative Stress Response in Deinococcus radiodurans by Modulating Catalase Localization. 	Signal Recognition Particle RNA Contributes to Oxidative Stress Response in Deinococcus radiodurans by Modulating Catalase Localization	Deinococcus radiodurans, catalase, oxidative stress, periplasm, protein transport, signal recognition particle, small non-coding RNA	The proper functioning of many proteins requires their transport to the correct cellular compartment or their secretion. Signal recognition particle (SRP) is a major protein transport pathway responsible for the co-translational movement of integral membrane proteins as well as periplasmic proteins. Deinococcus radiodurans is a ubiquitous bacterium that expresses a complex phenotype of extreme oxidative stress resistance, which depends on proteins involved in DNA repair, metabolism, gene regulation, and antioxidant defense. These proteins are located extracellularly or subcellularly, but the molecular mechanism of protein localization in D. radiodurans to manage oxidative stress response remains unexplored. In this study, we characterized the SRP complex in D. radiodurans R1 and showed that the knockdown (KD) of the SRP RNA (Qpr6) reduced bacterial survival under hydrogen peroxide and growth under chronic ionizing radiation. Through LC-mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis, we detected 162 proteins in the periplasm of wild-type D. radiodurans, of which the transport of 65 of these proteins to the periplasm was significantly reduced in the Qpr6 KD strain. Through Western blotting, we further demonstrated the localization of the catalases in D. radiodurans, DR_1998 (KatE1) and DR_A0259 (KatE2), in both the cytoplasm and periplasm, respectively, and showed that the accumulation of KatE1 and KatE2 in the periplasm was reduced in the SRP-defective strains. Collectively, this study establishes the importance of the SRP pathway in the survival and the transport of antioxidant proteins in D. radiodurans under oxidative stress.
PXD022299	33391307	Improving the Identification and Coverage of Plant Transmembrane Proteins in Medicago Using Bottom-Up Proteomics. 	Improving the identification and coverage of plant transmembrane proteins in Medicago using bottom-up proteomics	TMD, TMP	Plant transmembrane proteins (TMPs) are essential for normal cellular homeostasis, nutrient exchange, and responses to environmental cues. Commonly used bottom-up proteomic approaches fail to identify a broad coverage of peptide fragments derived from TMPs. Here, we used mass spectrometry (MS) to compare the effectiveness of two solubilization and protein cleavage methods to identify shoot-derived TMPs from the legume Medicago. We compared a urea solubilization, trypsin Lys-C (UR-TLC) cleavage method to a formic acid solubilization, cyanogen bromide and trypsin Lys-C (FA-CTLC) cleavage method. We assessed the effectiveness of these methods by (i) comparing total protein identifications, (ii) determining how many TMPs were identified, and (iii) defining how many peptides incorporate all, or part, of transmembrane domains (TMD) sequences. The results show that the FA-CTLC method identified nine-fold more TMDs, and enriched more hydrophobic TMPs than the UR-TLC method. FA-CTLC identified more TMPs, particularly transporters, whereas UR-TLC preferentially identified TMPs with one TMD, particularly signaling proteins. The results suggest that combining plant membrane purification techniques with both the FA-CTLC and UR-TLC methods will achieve a more complete identification and coverage of TMPs.
PXD014242	33391336	Identification of Critical Genes and Proteins for Stent Restenosis Induced by Esophageal Benign Hyperplasia in Esophageal Cancer. 	Potential proteins identification for stent restenosis induced by esophageal benign hyperplasia in esophageal cancer	esophageal cancer, esophageal stents placement, esophagus restenosis	This study was conducted to explore the potential genes and proteins associated with esophagus benign hyperplasia induced by esophageal stents. Five patients with esophageal cancer subjected to esophageal stent placement were enrolled in this study. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) sequencing and tandem mass tag quantitative proteomics analysis were performed by using the collected hyperplastic samples and adjacent non-hyperplastic tissues. Differentially expressed (DE) RNAs and proteins were analyzed, followed by functional enrichment analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network construction. Venn analysis was performed to extract the overlaps between DE mRNAs and DE proteins and the expression correlations between DE mRNA and proteins were analyzed. Results showed that total 642 DE RNAs (457 mRNA and 185 lncRNAs) and 256 DE proteins were detected. DE mRNAs (such as MAOB, SDR16C5, and FOSL1) were enriched in oxidation-reduction process-associated functions. PPI network was comprised of 175 nodes and 425 edges. VEGFA was a significant node with the highest degree. LncRNA-mRNA network with three subnetworks (C1, C2, C3) was constructed for lncRNAs with more than 15 gene targets. RP11-58O9.2 was a significant lncRNA with the most target genes and RP11-667F14.1 regulated more than 20 targets. FOSL1 was a common target of the two lncRNAs. Function analysis showed that DE lncRNAs were involved in the HTLV-I infection (RP11-58O9.2 and RP11-667F14.1) and IL-17 signaling pathways (RP11-5O24.1 and RP11-58O9.2). Total 11 DE mRNAs were overlapped with DE proteins, among which MAOB and SDR16C5 showed positive correlations between mRNA and protein expression. Function analysis showed that MAOB was enriched in oxidation-reduction process and its protein was closely related with response to lipopolysaccharide. VEGFA, FOSL1, MAOB, SDR16C5, RP11-58O9.2, RP11-667F14.1, and RP11-288A5.2 may be served as genetic targets for preventing stent restenosis in esophageal cancer.
PXD021038	33391540	Phosphoproteomics identify arachidonic-acid-regulated signal transduction pathways modulating macrophage functions with implications for ovarian cancer. 	Phosphoproteomics identify arachidonic-acid-regulated signal transduction pathways modulating macrophage functions in ovarian cancer	arachidonic acid, macrophages, ovarian cancer	Arachidonic acid (AA) is a polyunsaturated fatty acid present at high concentrations in the ovarian cancer (OC) microenvironment and associated with a poor clinical outcome. In the present study, we have unraveled a potential link between AA and macrophage functions. Methods: AA-triggered signal transduction was studied in primary monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) by phosphoproteomics, transcriptional profiling, measurement of intracellular Ca(2+) accumulation and reactive oxygen species production in conjunction with bioinformatic analyses. Functional effects were investigated by actin filament staining, quantification of macropinocytosis and analysis of extracellular vesicle release. Results: We identified the ASK1 - p38delta/alpha (MAPK13/14) axis as a central constituent of signal transduction pathways triggered by non-metabolized AA. This pathway was induced by the Ca(2+)-triggered activation of calmodulin kinase II, and to a minor extent by ROS generation in a subset of donors. Activated p38 in turn was linked to a transcriptional stress response associated with a poor relapse-free survival. Consistent with the phosphorylation of the p38 substrate HSP27 and the (de)phosphorylation of multiple regulators of Rho family GTPases, AA impaired actin filament organization and inhibited actin-driven macropinocytosis. AA also affected the phosphorylation of proteins regulating vesicle biogenesis, and consistently, AA enhanced the release of tetraspanin-containing exosome-like vesicles. Finally, we identified phospholipase A2 group 2A (PLA2G2A) as the clinically most relevant enzyme producing extracellular AA, providing further potentially theranostic options. Conclusion: Our results suggest that AA contributes to an unfavorable clinical outcome of OC by impacting the phenotype of tumor-associated macrophages. Besides critical AA-regulated signal transduction proteins identified in the present study, PLA2G2A might represent a potential prognostic tool and therapeutic target to interfere with OC progression.
PXD022159	33391730	'The long tail of Covid-19' - The detection of a prolonged inflammatory response after a SARS-CoV-2 infection in asymptomatic and mildly affected patients. 	The long tail of Covid 19' - The detection of a prolonged inflammatory response after a SARS-CoV-2 infection in asymptomatic and mildly affected patients	covid19, inflammation, sars-cov-2	'Long Covid', or medical complications associated with post SARS-CoV-2 infection, is a significant post-viral complication that is being more and more commonly reported in patients. Therefore, there is an increasing need to understand the disease mechanisms, identify drug targets and inflammatory processes associated with a SARS-CoV-2 infection. To address this need, we created a targeted mass spectrometry based multiplexed panel of 96 immune response associated proteins. We applied the multiplex assay to a cohort of serum samples from asymptomatic and moderately affected patients. All patients had tested positive for a SARS-CoV-2 infection by PCR and were determined to be subsequently positive for antibodies. Even 40-60 days post-viral infection, we observed a significant remaining inflammatory response in all patients. Proteins that were still affected were associated with the anti-inflammatory response and mitochondrial stress. This indicates that biochemical and inflammatory pathways within the body can remain perturbed long after SARS-CoV-2 infections have subsided even in asymptomatic and moderately affected patients.
PXD022565	33392107	Transfection With Plasmid Causing Stable Expression of a Foreign Gene Affects General Proteome Pattern in Giardia lamblia Trophozoites. 	Transfection with Glucuronidase A affects general proteome pattern in Giardia lamblia trophozoites	controls and standards in proteomic experimental procedures, model organisms, reverse genetics, untargeted proteomics	Giardia lamblia is an important causative agent of persistent diarrhea in humans, domestic animals, and cattle. Basic research is usually performed with the strain WBC6 and includes genetic manipulations such as transfections. Here, we investigate how transfection with a plasmid causing stable expression of a foreign gene affects the whole proteome pattern. Using shotgun mass spectrometry, we compare the proteomes of untransfected trophozoites to trophozoites transfected with Escherichia coli glucuronidase A (GusA). Besides GusA, which is detected in the transfected trophozoites only, the proteomes of untransfected and transfected trophozoites differ by 132 differentially expressed proteins. In particular, transfection induces antigenic variation. Since transfection causing stable expression affects the proteome pattern, transfection experiments should take into account this effect. Due to a unique peptide panel, GusA is an example for a suitable internal standard for experiments involving transfected cells. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022565.
PXD019258	33392160	The Impact of Biomaterial Cell Contact on the Immunopeptidome. 	The impact of biomaterial cell contact on the immunopeptidome	Biocompatibility, Biocompatibility assay, Biomaterials, Foreign body response, Host response, Monocytes, immunopeptidomics	Biomaterials play an increasing role in clinical applications and regenerative medicine. A perfectly designed biomaterial should restore the function of damaged tissue without triggering an undesirable immune response, initiate self-regeneration of the surrounding tissue and gradually degrade after implantation. The immune system is well recognized to play a major role in influencing the biocompatibility of implanted medical devices. To obtain a better understanding of the effects of biomaterials on the immune response, we have developed a highly sensitive novel test system capable of examining changes in the immune system by biomaterial. Here, we evaluated for the first time the immunopeptidome, a highly sensitive system that reflects cancer transformation, virus or drug influences and passes these cellular changes directly to T cells, as a test system to examine the effects of contact with materials. Since monocytes are one of the first immune cells reacting to biomaterials, we have tested the influence of different materials on the immunopeptidome of the monocytic THP-1 cell line. The tested materials included stainless steel, aluminum, zinc, high-density polyethylene, polyurethane films containing zinc diethyldithiocarbamate, copper, and zinc sulfate. The incubation with all material types resulted in significantly modulated peptides in the immunopeptidome, which were material-associated. The magnitude of induced changes in the immunopeptidome after the stimulation appeared comparable to that of bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS). The source proteins of many detected peptides are associated with cytotoxicity, fibrosis, autoimmunity, inflammation, and cellular stress. Considering all tested materials, it was found that the LPS-induced cytotoxicity-, inflammation- and cellular stress-associated HLA class I peptides were mainly induced by aluminum, whereas HLA class II peptides were mainly induced by stainless steel. These findings provide the first insights into the effects of biomaterials on the immunopeptidome. A more thorough understanding of these effects may enable the design of more biocompatible implant materials using in vitro models in future. Such efforts will provide a deeper understanding of possible immune responses induced by biomaterials such as fibrosis, inflammation, cytotoxicity, and autoimmune reactions.
PXD021647	33392199	Relationship Between Mitochondrial Structure and Bioenergetics in Pseudoxanthoma elasticum Dermal Fibroblasts. 	Mitochondrial structure and bioenergetics in Pseudoxanthoma elasticum	Mitochondria (HPP), PXE, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, fibroblast, mitochondria, ultrastructure	Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a genetic disease considered as a paradigm of ectopic mineralization disorders, being characterized by multisystem clinical manifestations due to progressive calcification of skin, eyes, and the cardiovascular system, resembling an age-related phenotype. Although fibroblasts do not express the pathogenic ABCC6 gene, nevertheless these cells are still under investigation because they regulate connective tissue homeostasis, generating the "arena" where cells and extracellular matrix components can promote pathologic calcification and where activation of pro-osteogenic factors can be associated to pathways involving mitochondrial metabolism. The aim of the present study was to integrate structural and bioenergenetic features to deeply investigate mitochondria from control and from PXE fibroblasts cultured in standard conditions and to explore the role of mitochondria in the development of the PXE fibroblasts' pathologic phenotype. Proteomic, biochemical, and morphological data provide new evidence that in basal culture conditions (1) the protein profile of PXE mitochondria reveals a number of differentially expressed proteins, suggesting changes in redox balance, oxidative phosphorylation, and calcium homeostasis in addition to modified structure and organization, (2) measure of oxygen consumption indicates that the PXE mitochondria have a low ability to cope with a sudden increased need for ATP via oxidative phosphorylation, (3) mitochondrial membranes are highly polarized in PXE fibroblasts, and this condition contributes to increased reactive oxygen species levels, (4) ultrastructural alterations in PXE mitochondria are associated with functional changes, and (5) PXE fibroblasts exhibit a more abundant, branched, and interconnected mitochondrial network compared to control cells, indicating that fusion prevail over fission events. In summary, the present study demonstrates that mitochondria are modified in PXE fibroblasts. Since mitochondria are key players in the development of the aging process, fibroblasts cultured from aged individuals or aged in vitro are more prone to calcify, and in PXE, calcified tissues remind features of premature aging syndromes; it can be hypothesized that mitochondria represent a common link contributing to the development of ectopic calcification in aging and in diseases. Therefore, ameliorating mitochondrial functions and cell metabolism could open new strategies to positively regulate a number of signaling pathways associated to pathologic calcification.
PXD022139	33393624	Novel insights into plasma biomarker candidates in patients with chronic mountain sickness based on proteomics. 	Novel Insights into Candidate Biomarkers in Patients with Chronic Mountain Sickness Based on Proteomics	Chronic mountain sickness, Hemoglobin beta chain, Oxidative stress, Phosphoglycerate kinase 1, Thioredoxin-1	Chronic mountain sickness (CMS) is a progressive incapacitating syndrome induced by lifelong exposure to hypoxia. In the present study, proteomic analysis was used to identify the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and then evaluate the potential plasma biomarkers between CMS and non-CMS groups. A total of 145 DEPs were detected in CMS Han Chinese people who live in the plateau (CMS-HPu), among which 89 were significantly up-regulated and 56 were significantly down-regulated. GO enrichment analysis showed that various biological processes were enriched, including the hydrogen peroxide metabolic/catabolic process, reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolic, and acute inflammatory response. Protein-protein interaction analysis showed that antioxidant activity, the hydrogen peroxide catabolic process and peroxidase activity were primarily mapped in interaction proteins. Nine modules showed significantly clustering based on WGCNA analysis, with two being the most significant, and GO analysis showed that proteins of both modules were primarily enriched in oxidative stress-related biological processes. Four DEPs increased in CMS patients were evaluated as the candidate biomarkers, and three showed significant AUC: hemoglobin beta chain (HB-beta), thioredoxin-1 (TRX1), and phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1). The present study provides insights into the pathogenesis of CMS and further evaluates the potentially biomarkers for its prevention and treatment of it.
PXD022814	33395532	Functionally Integrated Top-Down Proteomics for Standardized Assessment of Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Engineered Cardiac Tissues. 	Functionally Integrated Top-down Proteomics for Standardized Assessment of Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-derived Engineered Cardiac Tissues	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Human pluripotent stem cell, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), cardiac function, engineered cardiac tissue, top	Three-dimensional (3D) human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived engineered cardiac tissues (hiPSC-ECTs) have emerged as a promising alternative to two-dimensional hiPSC-cardiomyocyte monolayer systems because hiPSC-ECTs are a closer representation of endogenous cardiac tissues and more faithfully reflect the relevant cardiac pathophysiology. The ability to perform functional and molecular assessments using the same hiPSC-ECT construct would allow for more reliable correlation between observed functional performance and underlying molecular events, and thus is critically needed. Herein, for the first time, we have established an integrated method that permits sequential assessment of functional properties and top-down proteomics from the same single hiPSC-ECT construct. We quantitatively determined the differences in isometric twitch force and the sarcomeric proteoforms between two groups of hiPSC-ECTs that differed in the duration of time of 3D-ECT culture. Importantly, by using this integrated method we discovered a new and strong correlation between the measured contractile parameters and the phosphorylation levels of alpha-tropomyosin between the two groups of hiPSC-ECTs. The integration of functional assessments together with molecular characterization by top-down proteomics in the same hiPSC-ECT construct enables a holistic analysis of hiPSC-ECTs to accelerate their applications in disease modeling, cardiotoxicity, and drug discovery. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022814.
PXD023216	33396438	Arabidopsis Plant Natriuretic Peptide Is a Novel Interactor of Rubisco Activase. 	Large-scale LC-MS/MS identifiection of interactors of the Arabidopsis plant natriuretic peptide, AtPNP-A	A. thaliana, AtPNP-A, Plant natriuretic peptide	Plant natriuretic peptides (PNPs) are a group of systemically acting peptidic hormones affecting solute and solvent homeostasis and responses to biotrophic pathogens. Although an increasing body of evidence suggests PNPs modulate plant responses to biotic and abiotic stress, which could lead to their potential biotechnological application by conferring increased stress tolerance to plants, the exact mode of PNPs action is still elusive. In order to gain insight into PNP-dependent signalling, we set out to identify interactors of PNP present in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, termed AtPNP-A. Here, we report identification of rubisco activase (RCA), a central regulator of photosynthesis converting Rubisco catalytic sites from a closed to an open conformation, as an interactor of AtPNP-A through affinity isolation followed by mass spectrometric identification. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analyses reveals that the full-length recombinant AtPNP-A and the biologically active fragment of AtPNP-A bind specifically to RCA, whereas a biologically inactive scrambled peptide fails to bind. These results are considered in the light of known functions of PNPs, PNP-like proteins, and RCA in biotic and abiotic stress responses.
PXD021838	33396627	Proteomics of Muscle Microdialysates Identifies Potential Circulating Biomarkers in Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy. 	Proteomics of muscle microdialysates identifies potential circulating biomarkers in Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy	FSHD, Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy, biomarkers, inflammatory response	Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is caused by a complex epigenetic mechanism finally leading to the misexpression of DUX4 in skeletal muscle. Detecting DUX4 and quantifying disease progression in FSHD is extremely challenging, thus increasing the need for surrogate biomarkers. We applied a shotgun proteomic approach with two different setups to analyze the protein repertoire of interstitial fluids obtained from 20 muscles in different disease stages classified by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and serum samples from 10 FSHD patients. A total of 1156 proteins were identified in the microdialysates by data independent acquisition, 130 of which only found in muscles in active disease stage. Proteomic profiles were able to distinguish FSHD patients from controls. Two innate immunity mediators (S100-A8 and A9) and Dermcidin were upregulated in muscles with active disease and selectively present in the sera of FSHD patients. Structural muscle and plasminogen pathway proteins were downregulated. Together with the upstream inhibition of myogenic factors, this suggests defective muscle regeneration and increased fibrosis in early/active FSHD. Our MRI targeted exploratory approach confirmed that inflammatory response has a prominent role, together with impaired muscle regeneration, before clear muscle wasting occurs. We also identified three proteins as tissue and possibly circulating biomarkers in FSHD.
PXD022163	33397915	Analysing the mechanism of mitochondrial oxidation-induced cell death using a multifunctional iridium(III) photosensitiser. 	Analysing the Mechanism of Mitochondrial Oxidation-induced Cell Death Using a Multifunctional Iridium(III) Photosensitiser	Depolarisation, Iridium(III) complex, Mitochondrial oxidation-induced cell death, Photo-crosslinking, Photosensitiser	Mitochondrial oxidation-induced cell death, a physiological process triggered by various cancer therapeutics to induce oxidative stress on tumours, has been challenging to investigate owing to the difficulties in generating mitochondria-specific oxidative stress and monitoring mitochondrial responses simultaneously. Accordingly, to the best of our knowledge, the relationship between mitochondrial protein oxidation via oxidative stress and the subsequent cell death-related biological phenomena has not been defined. Here, we developed a multifunctional iridium(III) photosensitiser, Ir-OA, capable of inducing substantial mitochondrial oxidative stress and monitoring the corresponding change in viscosity, polarity, and morphology. Photoactivation of Ir-OA triggers chemical modifications in mitochondrial protein-crosslinking and oxidation (i.e., oxidative phosphorylation complexes and channel and translocase proteins), leading to microenvironment changes, such as increased microviscosity and depolarisation. These changes are strongly related to cell death by inducing mitochondrial swelling with excessive fission and fusion. We suggest a potential mechanism from mitochondrial oxidative stress to cell death based on proteomic analyses and phenomenological observations.
PXD001087	33398005	MCM3 upregulation confers endocrine resistance in breast cancer and is a predictive marker of diminished tamoxifen benefit. 	Breast Cancer                 .	DNA replication, Estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, NDRG1, cell cycle, minichromosome maintenance proteins (MCM), tamoxifen resistance	Resistance to endocrine therapy in estrogen receptor-positive (ER(+)) breast cancer is a major clinical problem with poorly understood mechanisms. There is an unmet need for prognostic and predictive biomarkers to allow appropriate therapeutic targeting. We evaluated the mechanism by which minichromosome maintenance protein 3 (MCM3) influences endocrine resistance and its predictive/prognostic potential in ER(+) breast cancer. We discovered that ER(+) breast cancer cells survive tamoxifen and letrozole treatments through upregulation of minichromosome maintenance proteins (MCMs), including MCM3, which are key molecules in the cell cycle and DNA replication. Lowering MCM3 expression in endocrine-resistant cells restored drug sensitivity and altered phosphorylation of cell cycle regulators, including p53(Ser(315,33)), CHK1(Ser(317)), and cdc25b(Ser(323)), suggesting that the interaction of MCM3 with cell cycle proteins is an important mechanism of overcoming replicative stress and anti-proliferative effects of endocrine treatments. Interestingly, the MCM3 levels did not affect the efficacy of growth inhibitory by CDK4/6 inhibitors. Evaluation of MCM3 levels in primary tumors from four independent cohorts of breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant tamoxifen mono-therapy or no adjuvant treatment, including the Stockholm tamoxifen (STO-3) trial, showed MCM3 to be an independent prognostic marker adding information beyond Ki67. In addition, MCM3 was shown to be a predictive marker of response to endocrine treatment. Our study reveals a coordinated signaling network centered around MCM3 that limits response to endocrine therapy in ER(+) breast cancer and identifies MCM3 as a clinically useful prognostic and predictive biomarker that allows personalized treatment of ER(+) breast cancer patients.
PXD022212	33398012	Cardiomyocytes stimulate angiogenesis after ischemic injury in a ZEB2-dependent manner. 	ZEB2 protects the heart from ischemic damage	Cardiomyocytes, ZEB2, angiogenesis, ischemic injury	The disruption in blood supply due to myocardial infarction is a critical determinant for infarct size and subsequent deterioration in function. The identification of factors that enhance cardiac repair by the restoration of the vascular network is, therefore, of great significance. Here, we show that the transcription factor Zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 2 (ZEB2) is increased in stressed cardiomyocytes and induces a cardioprotective cross-talk between cardiomyocytes and endothelial cells to enhance angiogenesis after ischemia. Single-cell sequencing indicates ZEB2 to be enriched in injured cardiomyocytes. Cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of ZEB2 results in impaired cardiac contractility and infarct healing post-myocardial infarction (post-MI), while cardiomyocyte-specific ZEB2 overexpression improves cardiomyocyte survival and cardiac function. We identified Thymosin beta4 (TMSB4) and Prothymosin alpha (PTMA) as main paracrine factors released from cardiomyocytes to stimulate angiogenesis by enhancing endothelial cell migration, and whose regulation is validated in our in vivo models. Therapeutic delivery of ZEB2 to cardiomyocytes in the infarcted heart induces the expression of TMSB4 and PTMA, which enhances angiogenesis and prevents cardiac dysfunction. These findings reveal ZEB2 as a beneficial factor during ischemic injury, which may hold promise for the identification of new therapies.
PXD014230	33398100	Dinoflagellates alter their carbon and nutrient metabolic strategies across environmental gradients in the central Pacific Ocean. 	Dinoflagellates contribute to primary and secondary production across biogeochemical gradients of the central Pacific Ocean	Pacific Ocean, dinoflagellates, phytoplankton	Marine microeukaryotes play a fundamental role in biogeochemical cycling through the transfer of energy to higher trophic levels and vertical carbon transport. Despite their global importance, microeukaryote physiology, nutrient metabolism and contributions to carbon cycling across offshore ecosystems are poorly characterized. Here, we observed the prevalence of dinoflagellates along a 4,600-km meridional transect extending across the central Pacific Ocean, where oligotrophic gyres meet equatorial upwelling waters rich in macronutrients yet low in dissolved iron. A combined multi-omics and geochemical analysis provided a window into dinoflagellate metabolism across the transect, indicating a continuous taxonomic dinoflagellate community that shifted its functional transcriptome and proteome as it extended from the euphotic to the mesopelagic zone. In euphotic waters, multi-omics data suggested that a combination of trophic modes were utilized, while mesopelagic metabolism was marked by cytoskeletal investments and nutrient recycling. Rearrangement in nutrient metabolism was evident in response to variable nitrogen and iron regimes across the gradient, with no associated change in community assemblage. Total dinoflagellate proteins scaled with particulate carbon export, with both elevated in equatorial waters, suggesting a link between dinoflagellate abundance and total carbon flux. Dinoflagellates employ numerous metabolic strategies that enable broad occupation of central Pacific ecosystems and play a dual role in carbon transformation through both photosynthetic fixation in the euphotic zone and remineralization in the mesopelagic zone.
PXD022511	33398154	Reimagining high-throughput profiling of reactive cysteines for cell-based screening of large electrophile libraries. 	Reimagining high-throughput profiling of reactive cysteines for cell-based screening of large electrophile libraries	chemical proteomics, reactive cysteines	Current methods used for measuring amino acid side-chain reactivity lack the throughput needed to screen large chemical libraries for interactions across the proteome. Here we redesigned the workflow for activity-based protein profiling of reactive cysteine residues by using a smaller desthiobiotin-based probe, sample multiplexing, reduced protein starting amounts and software to boost data acquisition in real time on the mass spectrometer. Our method, streamlined cysteine activity-based protein profiling (SLC-ABPP), achieved a 42-fold improvement in sample throughput, corresponding to profiling library members at a depth of >8,000 reactive cysteine sites at 18 min per compound. We applied it to identify proteome-wide targets of covalent inhibitors to mutant Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS)(G12C) and Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK). In addition, we created a resource of cysteine reactivity to 285 electrophiles in three human cell lines, which includes >20,000 cysteines from >6,000 proteins per line. The goal of proteome-wide profiling of cysteine reactivity across thousand-member libraries under several cellular contexts is now within reach.
PXD016249	33398190	Cell surface thermal proteome profiling tracks perturbations and drug targets on the plasma membrane. 	Tracking drug action on the cell surface proteome	Thermal proteome profiling, cell surface, plasma membrane	Numerous drugs and endogenous ligands bind to cell surface receptors leading to modulation of downstream signaling cascades and frequently to adaptation of the plasma membrane proteome. In-depth analysis of dynamic processes at the cell surface is challenging due to biochemical properties and low abundances of plasma membrane proteins. Here we introduce cell surface thermal proteome profiling for the comprehensive characterization of ligand-induced changes in protein abundances and thermal stabilities at the plasma membrane. We demonstrate drug binding to extracellular receptors and transporters, discover stimulation-dependent remodeling of T cell receptor complexes and describe a competition-based approach to measure target engagement of G-protein-coupled receptor antagonists. Remodeling of the plasma membrane proteome in response to treatment with the TGFB receptor inhibitor SB431542 leads to partial internalization of the monocarboxylate transporters MCT1/3 explaining the antimetastatic effects of the drug.
PXD022171	33398338	Intestinal differentiation involves cleavage of histone H3 N-terminal tails by multiple proteases. 	Intestinal Differentiation Involves Cleavage of Histone H3 NTerminal Tails by Multiple Proteases	clipping, histone post-translational modifications	The proteolytic cleavage of histone tails, also termed histone clipping, has been described as a mechanism for permanent removal of post-translational modifications (PTMs) from histone proteins. Such activity has been ascribed to ensure regulatory function in key cellular processes such as differentiation, senescence and transcriptional control, for which different histone-specific proteases have been described. However, all these studies were exclusively performed using cell lines cultured in vitro and no clear evidence that histone clipping is regulated in vivo has been reported. Here we show that histone H3 N-terminal tails undergo extensive cleavage in the differentiated cells of the villi in mouse intestinal epithelium. Combining biochemical methods, 3D organoid cultures and in vivo approaches, we demonstrate that intestinal H3 clipping is the result of multiple proteolytic activities. We identified Trypsins and Cathepsin L as specific H3 tail proteases active in small intestinal differentiated cells and showed that their proteolytic activity is differentially affected by the PTM pattern of histone H3 tails. Together, our findings provide in vivo evidence of H3 tail proteolysis in mammalian tissues, directly linking H3 clipping to cell differentiation.
PXD018096	33403290	Capillary Electrophoresis Assessment of Plasma Protein Changes in an African Penguin (Spheniscus demersus) With Aspergillosis. 	African Penguin (Spheniscus demersus)  Plasma Samples	African Penguin, CE, LC-MS, Plasma	A decrease of avian biodiversity in the African continent has been the result of anthropogenic pressure in the region. This has resulted in the African penguin (Spheniscus demersus) being placed on the endangered species list and requires conservation efforts to maintain its free-ranging population and placement under managed care. In the latter environment, infection by Aspergillus fumigatus can be common. The diagnosis and treatment of this fungal disease in birds has presented with many difficulties, largely due to the diversity and limited knowledge that exists about this species. In this study, we implement a high-resolution capillary electrophoresis system for the fractionation of African penguin plasma, followed by mass spectrometry analysis for the identification of proteins associated with aspergillosis. Several protein differences were revealed, including changes in acute phase proteins and lipid metabolism. In addition, our results demonstrated that fibrinogen beta chain is a protein largely present during the inflammatory process in an African penguin infected with A. fumigatus. These findings present a new avenue for the measurement of plasma proteins as a potential method for identifying important biomarkers to aid in monitoring African penguin health.
PXD020180	33404012	Ral GTPases promote breast cancer metastasis by controlling biogenesis and organ targeting of exosomes. 	Ral GTPases promote metastasis by controlling biogenesis and organotropism of exosomes	Ral, extracellular vesicles, nanoLCMSMS Prostar Maxquant	Cancer extracellular vesicles (EVs) shuttle at distance and fertilize pre-metastatic niches facilitating subsequent seeding by tumor cells. However, the link between EV secretion mechanisms and their capacity to form pre-metastatic niches remains obscure. Using mouse models, we show that GTPases of the Ral family control, through the phospholipase D1, multi-vesicular bodies homeostasis and tune the biogenesis and secretion of pro-metastatic EVs. Importantly, EVs from RalA or RalB depleted cells have limited organotropic capacities in vivoand are less efficient in promoting metastasis. RalA and RalB reduce the EV levels of the adhesion molecule MCAM/CD146, which favors EV-mediated metastasis by allowing EVs targeting to the lungs. Finally, RalA, RalB, and MCAM/CD146, are factors of poor prognosis in breast cancer patients. Altogether, our study identifies RalGTPases as central molecules linking the mechanisms of EVs secretion and cargo loading to their capacity to disseminate and induce pre-metastatic niches in a CD146-dependent manner.
PXD021561	33404253	Venom Profiling of the Insular Species Bothrops alcatraz: Characterization of Proteome, Glycoproteome, and N-Terminome Using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates. 	Venom profiling of the insular species Bothrops alcatraz: characterization of proteome, glycoproteome, and N-terminome using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates.	Bothrops alcatraz, N-terminome, glycoproteome, proteolytic processing, snake venom	Bothrops alcatraz, a species endemic to Alcatrazes Islands, is regarded as critically endangered due to its small area of occurrence and the declining quality of its habitat. We recently reported the identification of N-glycans attached to toxins of Bothrops species, showing similar compositions in venoms of the B. jararaca complex (B. jararaca, B. insularis, and B. alcatraz). Here, we characterized B. alcatraz venom using electrophoretic, proteomic, and glycoproteomic approaches. Electrophoresis showed that B. alcatraz venom differs from B. jararaca and B. insularis; however, N-glycan removal revealed similarities between them, indicating that the occupation of N-glycosylation sites contributes to interspecies variability in the B. jararaca complex. Metalloproteinase was the major toxin class identified in the B. alcatraz venom proteome followed by serine proteinase and C-type lectin, and overall, the adult B. alcatraz venom resembles that of B. jararaca juvenile specimens. The comparative glycoproteomic analysis of B. alcatraz venom with B. jararaca and B. insularis indicated that there may be differences in the utilization of N-glycosylation motifs among their different toxin classes. Furthermore, we prospected for the first time the N-terminome of a snake venom using the terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates (TAILS) approach and report the presence of ~30% of N-termini corresponding to truncated toxin forms and ~37% N-terminal sequences blocked by pyroglutamic acid in B. alcatraz venom. These findings underscore a low correlation between venom gland transcriptomes and proteomes and support the view that post-translational processes play a major role in shaping venom phenotypes.
PXD021540	33406257	tRNA 3' shortening by LCCR4 as a response to stress in Trypanosoma brucei. 	tRNA 3' shortening by LCCR4 as a response to stress in Trypanosoma brucei	Ccr4, brucei, stress, tRNA, translation	Sensing of environmental cues is crucial for cell survival. To adapt to changes in their surroundings cells need to tightly control the repertoire of genes expressed at any time. Regulation of translation is key, especially in organisms in which transcription is hardly controlled, like Trypanosoma brucei. In this study, we describe the shortening of the bulk of the cellular tRNAs during stress at the expense of the conserved 3' CCA-tail. This tRNA shortening is specific for nutritional stress and renders tRNAs unsuitable substrates for translation. We uncovered the nuclease LCCR4 (Tb927.4.2430), a homologue of the conserved deadenylase Ccr4, as being responsible for tRNA trimming. Once optimal growth conditions are restored tRNAs are rapidly repaired by the trypanosome tRNA nucleotidyltransferase thus rendering the recycled tRNAs amenable for translation. This mechanism represents a fast and efficient way to repress translation during stress, allowing quick reactivation with a low energy input.
PXD020988	33406628	Gut Microbiota Dysbiosis Is Associated with Elevated Bile Acids in Parkinson's Disease. 	Gut microbiome dysregulation is associated with elevated toxic bile acids in Parkinson's disease	Parkinson's disease, appendix, bile acids, gut, microbiome	The gut microbiome can impact brain health and is altered in Parkinson's disease (PD). The vermiform appendix is a lymphoid tissue in the cecum implicated in the storage and regulation of the gut microbiota. We sought to determine whether the appendix microbiome is altered in PD and to analyze the biological consequences of the microbial alterations. We investigated the changes in the functional microbiota in the appendix of PD patients relative to controls (n = 12 PD, 16 C) by metatranscriptomic analysis. We found microbial dysbiosis affecting lipid metabolism, including an upregulation of bacteria responsible for secondary bile acid synthesis. We then quantitatively measure changes in bile acid abundance in PD relative to the controls in the appendix (n = 15 PD, 12 C) and ileum (n = 20 PD, 20 C). Bile acid analysis in the PD appendix reveals an increase in hydrophobic and secondary bile acids, deoxycholic acid (DCA) and lithocholic acid (LCA). Further proteomic and transcriptomic analysis in the appendix and ileum corroborated these findings, highlighting changes in the PD gut that are consistent with a disruption in bile acid control, including alterations in mediators of cholesterol homeostasis and lipid metabolism. Microbially derived toxic bile acids are heightened in PD, which suggests biliary abnormalities may play a role in PD pathogenesis.
PXD022693	33406687	Salinity Effects on Guard Cell Proteome in Chenopodium quinoa. 	Salinity effects on guard cell proteome in Chenopodium quinoa	guard cell, proteomics analysis, quinoa, salt stress, stomata	Epidermal fragments enriched in guard cells (GCs) were isolated from the halophyte quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa Wild.) species, and the response at the proteome level was studied after salinity treatment of 300 mM NaCl for 3 weeks. In total, 2147 proteins were identified, of which 36% were differentially expressed in response to salinity stress in GCs. Up and downregulated proteins included signaling molecules, enzyme modulators, transcription factors and oxidoreductases. The most abundant proteins induced by salt treatment were desiccation-responsive protein 29B (50-fold), osmotin-like protein OSML13 (13-fold), polycystin-1, lipoxygenase, alpha-toxin, and triacylglycerol lipase (PLAT) domain-containing protein 3-like (eight-fold), and dehydrin early responsive to dehydration (ERD14) (eight-fold). Ten proteins related to the gene ontology term "response to ABA" were upregulated in quinoa GC; this included aspartic protease, phospholipase D and plastid-lipid-associated protein. Additionally, seven proteins in the sucrose-starch pathway were upregulated in the GC in response to salinity stress, and accumulation of tryptophan synthase and L-methionine synthase (enzymes involved in the amino acid biosynthesis) was observed. Exogenous application of sucrose and tryptophan, L-methionine resulted in reduction in stomatal aperture and conductance, which could be advantageous for plants under salt stress. Eight aspartic proteinase proteins were highly upregulated in GCs of quinoa, and exogenous application of pepstatin A (an inhibitor of aspartic proteinase) was accompanied by higher oxidative stress and extremely low stomatal aperture and conductance, suggesting a possible role of aspartic proteinase in mitigating oxidative stress induced by saline conditions.
PXD021216	33408255	Rapid toxin sequestration modifies poison frog physiology. 	Alkaloids modify the poison frog proteome	Poison Dart Frog, complement system, cytochrome P450s, gut, liver, saxiphilin, skin, toxin	Poison frogs sequester chemical defenses from their diet of leaf litter arthropods for defense against predation. Little is known about the physiological adaptations that confer this unusual bioaccumulation ability. We conducted an alkaloid-feeding experiment with the Diablito poison frog (Oophaga sylvatica) to determine how quickly alkaloids are accumulated and how toxins modify frog physiology using quantitative proteomics. Diablito frogs rapidly accumulated the alkaloid decahydroquinoline within 4 days, and dietary alkaloid exposure altered protein abundance in the intestines, liver and skin. Many proteins that increased in abundance with decahydroquinoline accumulation are plasma glycoproteins, including the complement system and the toxin-binding protein saxiphilin. Other protein classes that change in abundance with decahydroquinoline accumulation are membrane proteins involved in small molecule transport and metabolism. Overall, this work shows that poison frogs can rapidly accumulate alkaloids, which alter carrier protein abundance, initiate an immune response, and alter small molecule transport and metabolism dynamics across tissues.
PXD013934	33408763	Dysregulation of phosphoproteins in hepatocellular carcinoma revealed via quantitative analysis of the phosphoproteome. 	Dysregulation of phophoproteins in hepatocellular carcinoma revealed by the quantitative analysis of phosphoproteome	Hepatocellular carcinoma, LCMS/MS, phophoproteins	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most frequently diagnosed types of cancer in the world. Post-translational modifications, such as phosphorylation, serve an essential role during cancer development. To identify aberrant phosphorylation in HCC, a multiplexed tandem mass tag approach combined with liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry was used in the present study. The results are available via ProteomeXchange (identifier no. PXD013934). A total of 4,780 phosphorylated sites distributed on 2,209 proteins were identified and quantified, including 74 and 459 phosphorylated upregulated and downregulated proteins, respectively. Bioinformatic analysis revealed differences and similarities between HCC and normal tissues. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis provided information on biological processes, molecular functions, cellular components and sub-cellular localizations. Protein domains enrichment of differentially expressed proteins was analyzed using InterPro database. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis revealed pathways that may potentially be involved in HCC. Integrative analysis of the functions, pathways, motifs of phosphorylated peptides, protein domains and protein interactions established a profile of the phosphoproteome of HCC, which may contribute to identify novel biomarkers for the diagnosis and prognosis of HCC, as well as novel therapeutic targets for HCC treatment.
PXD011414	33408776	Proteomic analysis reveals ginsenoside Rb1 attenuates myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury through inhibiting ROS production from mitochondrial complex I. 	Ginsenoside Rb1 blocked mitochondrial reverse electron transfer-derived ROS production and protected cardiomyocytes from ischemia/reperfusion injury through reversibly inhibiting mitochondrial complex I	ROS, Rb1, cardiomyocytes	Rationale: Reactive oxygen species (ROS) burst from mitochondrial complex I is considered the critical cause of ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Ginsenoside Rb1 has been reported to protect the heart against I/R injury; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. This work aimed to investigate if ginsenoside Rb1 attenuates cardiac I/R injury by inhibiting ROS production from mitochondrial complex I. Methods: In in vivo experiments, mice were given ginsenoside Rb1 and then subjected to I/R injury. Mitochondrial ROS levels in the heart were determined using the mitochondrial-targeted probe MitoB. Mitochondrial proteins were used for TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis. In in vitro experiments, adult mouse cardiomyocytes were pretreated with ginsenoside Rb1 and then subjected to hypoxia and reoxygenation insult. Mitochondrial ROS, NADH dehydrogenase activity, and conformational changes of mitochondrial complex I were analyzed. Results: Ginsenoside Rb1 decreased mitochondrial ROS production, reduced myocardial infarct size, preserved cardiac function, and limited cardiac fibrosis. Proteomic analysis showed that subunits of NADH dehydrogenase in mitochondrial complex I might be the effector proteins regulated by ginsenoside Rb1. Ginsenoside Rb1 inhibited complex I- but not complex II- or IV-dependent O2 consumption and enzyme activity. The inhibitory effects of ginsenoside Rb1 on mitochondrial I-dependent respiration and reperfusion-induced ROS production were rescued by bypassing complex I using yeast NADH dehydrogenase. Molecular docking and surface plasmon resonance experiments indicated that ginsenoside Rb1 reduced NADH dehydrogenase activity, probably via binding to the ND3 subunit to trap mitochondrial complex I in a deactive form upon reperfusion. Conclusion: Inhibition of mitochondrial complex I-mediated ROS burst elucidated the probable underlying mechanism of ginsenoside Rb1 in alleviating cardiac I/R injury.
PXD021233	33410333	CD4(+) T Cell-Specific Proteomic Pathways Identified in Progression of Hypertension Across Postmenopausal Transition. 	CD4+ T cell specific proteomic pathways identified in progression of hypertension across postmenopausal transition	postmenopausal hypertension CD4+ T cell	Background Menopause is associated with an increase in the prevalence and severity of hypertension in women. Although premenopausal females are protected against T cell-dependent immune activation and development of angiotensin II (Ang II) hypertension, this protection is lost in postmenopausal females. Therefore, the current study hypothesized that specific CD4(+) T cell pathways are regulated by sex hormones and Ang II to mediate progression from premenopausal protection to postmenopausal hypertension. Methods and Results Menopause was induced in C57BL/6 mice via repeated 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide injections, while premenopausal females received sesame oil vehicle. A subset of premenopausal mice and all menopausal mice were infused with Ang II for 14 days (Control, Ang II, Meno/Ang II). Proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiles of CD4(+) T cells isolated from spleens were examined. Ang II markedly increased CD4(+) T cell protein abundance and phosphorylation associated with DNA and histone methylation in both premenopausal and postmenopausal females. Compared with premenopausal T cells, Ang II infusion in menopausal mice increased T cell phosphorylation of MP2K2, an upstream regulator of ERK, and was associated with upregulated phosphorylation at ERK targeted sites. Additionally, Ang II infusion in menopausal mice decreased T cell phosphorylation of TLN1, a key regulator of IL-2Ralpha and FOXP3 expression. Conclusions These findings identify novel, distinct T cell pathways that influence T cell-mediated inflammation during postmenopausal hypertension.
PXD021754	33410508	Maize metabolome and proteome responses to controlled cold stress partly mimic early-sowing effects in the field and differ from those of Arabidopsis. 	Genetic variation of maize responses to low temperatures in the field	Zea Mays, cold resistance, field, genetic diversity, low temperature	In Northern Europe, sowing maize one-month earlier than current agricultural practices may lead to moderate chilling damage. However, studies of the metabolic responses to low, non-freezing, temperatures remain scarce. Here, genetically-diverse maize hybrids (Zea mays, dent inbred lines crossed with a flint inbred line) were cultivated in a growth chamber at optimal temperature and then three decreasing temperatures for 2 days each, as well as in the field. Leaf metabolomic and proteomic profiles were determined. In the growth chamber, 50% of metabolites and 18% of proteins changed between 20 and 16degreesC. These maize responses, partly differing from those of Arabidopsis to short-term chilling, were mapped on genome-wide metabolic maps. Several metabolites and proteins showed similar variation for all temperature decreases: seven MS-based metabolite signatures and two proteins involved in photosynthesis decreased continuously. Several increasing metabolites or proteins in the growth-chamber chilling conditions showed similar trends in the early-sowing field experiment, including trans-aconitate, three hydroxycinnamate derivatives, a benzoxazinoid, a sucrose synthase, lethal leaf-spot 1 protein, an allene oxide synthase, several glutathione transferases and peroxidases. Hybrid groups based on field biomass were used to search for the metabolite or protein responses differentiating them in growth-chamber conditions, which could be of interest for breeding.
PXD021844	33411714	Extracellular vesicles released from the filarial parasite Brugia malayi downregulate the host mTOR pathway. 	Proteomic analysis of Brugia malayi microfilaria-derived extracellular vesicles	Brugia malayi, Extracelluar vesicles, microfilaria	We have previously shown that the microfilarial (mf) stage of Brugia malayi can inhibit the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR; a conserved serine/threonine kinase critical for immune regulation and cellular growth) in human dendritic cells (DC) and we have proposed that this mTOR inhibition is associated with the DC dysfunction seen in filarial infections. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) contain many proteins and nucleic acids including microRNAs (miRNAs) that might affect a variety of intracellular pathways. Thus, EVs secreted from mf may elucidate the mechanism by which the parasite is able to modulate the host immune response during infection. EVs, purified from mf of Brugia malayi and confirmed by size through nanoparticle tracking analysis, were assessed by miRNA microarrays (accession number GSE157226) and shown to be enriched (>2-fold, p-value<0.05, FDR = 0.05) for miR100, miR71, miR34, and miR7. The microarray analysis compared mf-derived EVs and mf supernatant. After confirming their presence in EVs using qPCR for these miRNA targets, web-based target predictions (using MIRPathv3, TarBAse and MicroT-CD) predicted that miR100 targeted mTOR and its downstream regulatory protein 4E-BP1. Our previous data with live parasites demonstrated that mf downregulate the phosphorylation of mTOR and its downstream effectors. Additionally, our proteomic analysis of the mf-derived EVs revealed the presence of proteins commonly found in these vesicles (data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021844). We confirmed internalization of mf-derived EVs by human DCs and monocytes using confocal microscopy and flow cytometry, and further demonstrated through flow cytometry, that mf-derived EVs downregulate the phosphorylation of mTOR in human monocytes (THP-1 cells) to the same degree that rapamycin (a known mTOR inhibitor) does. Our data collectively suggest that mf release EVs that interact with host cells, such as DC, to modulate host responses.
PXD023196	33412004	Mass Spectrometry Spatial-Omics on a Single Conductive Slide. 	Mass spectrometry spatial-omics on a single conductive slide	LMD, MALDI-MSI, conductive slide	Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) can analyze the spatial distribution of hundreds of different molecules directly from tissue sections usually placed on conductive glass slides to provide conductivity on the sample surface. Additional experiments are often required for molecular identification using consecutive sections on membrane slides compatible with laser capture microdissection (LMD). In this work, we demonstrate for the first time the use of a single conductive slide for both matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI)-MSI and direct proteomics. In this workflow, regions of interest can be directly ablated with LMD while preserving protein integrity. These results offer an alternative for MSI-based multimodal spatial-omics.
PXD017931	33412091	The active DNA-PK holoenzyme occupies a tensed state in a staggered synaptic complex. 	Integrative Structural Model of DNA-PK Synapsis	DNA-PK, Hydrogen deuterium exchange, crosslinking	In the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) of a DNA double-strand break, DNA ends are bound and protected by DNA-PK, which synapses across the break to tether the broken ends and initiate repair. There is little clarity surrounding the nature of the synaptic complex and the mechanism governing the transition to repair. We report an integrative structure of the synaptic complex at a precision of 13.5 Aa, revealing a symmetric head-to-head arrangement with a large offset in the DNA ends and an extensive end-protection mechanism involving a previously uncharacterized plug domain. Hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry identifies an allosteric pathway connecting DNA end-binding with the kinase domain that places DNA-PK under tension in the kinase-active state. We present a model for the transition from end-protection to repair, where the synaptic complex supports hierarchical processing of the ends and scaffold assembly, requiring displacement of the catalytic subunit and tension release through kinase activity.
PXD023272	33413078	Evaluation of the potential of Pap test fluid and cervical swabs to serve as clinical diagnostic biospecimens for the detection of ovarian cancer by mass spectrometry-based proteomics. 	: Pap test, cervical swab, and tumor tissue LC-MS/MS proteomics from a case of high grade serous ovarian cancer.	Pap test, biomarkers, cervical swab, ovarian cancer, tumor tissue	BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to determine whether the residual fixative from a liquid-based Pap test or a swab of the cervix contained proteins that were also found in the primary tumor of a woman with high grade serous ovarian cancer. This study is the first step in determining the feasibility of using the liquid-based Pap test or a cervical swab for the detection of ovarian cancer protein biomarkers. METHODS: Proteins were concentrated by acetone precipitation from the cell-free supernatant of the liquid-based Pap test fixative or eluted from the cervical swab. Protein was also extracted from the patient's tumor tissue. The protein samples were digested into peptides with trypsin, then the peptides were run on 2D-liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (2D-LCMS). The data was searched against a human protein database for the identification of peptides and proteins in each biospecimen. The proteins that were identified were classified for cellular localization and molecular function by bioinformatics integration. RESULTS: We identified almost 5000 proteins total in the three matched biospecimens. More than 2000 proteins were expressed in each of the three biospecimens, including several known ovarian cancer biomarkers such as CA125, HE4, and mesothelin. By Scaffold analysis of the protein Gene Ontology categories and functional analysis using PANTHER, the proteins were classified by cellular localization and molecular function, demonstrating that the Pap test fluid and cervical swab proteins are similar to each other, and also to the tumor extract. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that Pap test fixatives and cervical swabs are a rich source of tumor-specific biomarkers for ovarian cancer, which could be developed as a test for ovarian cancer detection.
PXD021281	33413584	Uncovering the secretome of mesenchymal stromal cells exposed to healthy, traumatic, and degenerative intervertebral discs: a proteomic analysis. 	Uncovering the secretome of mesenchymal stromal cells exposed to healthy, traumatic and 1 degenerative intervertebral discs: A proteomic analysis	LC-MS, MS1 Quantification, Mesenchymal stromal cells	BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have been introduced as promising cell source for regenerative medicine. Besides their multilineage differentiation capacity, MSCs release a wide spectrum of bioactive factors. This secretome holds immunomodulatory and regenerative capacities. In intervertebral disc (IVD) cells, application of MSC secretome has been shown to decrease the apoptosis rate, induce proliferation, and promote production of extracellular matrix (ECM). For clinical translation of secretome-based treatment, characterization of the secretome composition is needed to better understand the induced biological processes and identify potentially effective secretomes. METHODS: This study aimed to investigate the proteome released by bone marrow-derived MSCs following exposure to a healthy, traumatic, or degenerative human IVD environment by mass spectroscopy and quantitative immunoassay analyses. Exposure of MSCs to the proinflammatory stimulus interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) was used as control. RESULTS: Compared to MSC baseline secretome, there were 224 significantly up- or downregulated proteins following healthy, 179 following traumatic, 223 following degenerative IVD, and 160 proteins following IL-1beta stimulus. Stimulation of MSCs with IVD conditioned media induced a more complex MSC secretome, involving more biological processes, compared to stimulation with IL-1beta. The MSC response to stimulation with IVD conditioned medium was dependent on their pathological status. CONCLUSIONS: The MSC secretome seemed to match the primary need of the IVD: homeostasis maintenance in the case of healthy IVDs, versus immunomodulation, adjustment of ECM synthesis and degradation disbalance, and ECM (re) organization in the case of traumatic and degenerative IVDs. These findings highlight the importance of cell preconditioning in the development of tailored secretome therapies. The secretome of human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) stimulated with intervertebral disc (IVD) conditioned medium was analyzed by proteomic profiling. Depending on the pathological state of the IVD, the MSC secretome protein composition indicated immunomodulatory or anabolic activity of the secretome. These findings may have implications for tailored secretome therapy for the IVD and other tissues.
PXD020375	33413676	Sex-dependent differences in the secretome of human endothelial cells. 	Gender differences in human endothelial cell secretome	endothelial cells, gender, secretome	BACKGROUND: Cellular sex has rarely been considered as a biological variable in preclinical research, even when the pathogenesis of diseases with predictable sex differences is studied. In this perspective, proteomics, and "omics" approaches in general, can provide powerful tools to obtain comprehensive cellular maps, thus favoring the discovery of still unknown sex-biased physio-pathological mechanisms. METHODS: We performed proteomic and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses of the secretome from human serum-deprived male and female endothelial cells (ECs) followed by ELISA validation. Apoptosis was detected by FACS and Western blot techniques and efferocytosis through the ability of the macrophage cell line RAW 264.7 to engulf apoptotic ECs. PTX3 mRNA levels were measured by RT-qPCR. RESULTS: Proteomic and GO analyses of the secretome from starved human male and female ECs demonstrated a significant enrichment in proteins related to cellular responses to stress and to the regulation of apoptosis in the secretome of male ECs. Accordingly, a higher percentage of male ECs underwent apoptosis in response to serum deprivation in comparison with female ECs. Among the secreted proteins, we reliably found higher levels of PTX3 in the male EC secretome. The silencing of PTX3 suggested that male ECs were dependent on its expression to properly carry out the efferocytotic process. At variance, female EC efferocytosis seemed to be independent on PTX3 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated that serum-starved male and female ECs possess different secretory phenotypes that might take part in the sex-biased response to cellular stress. We identified PTX3 as a crucial player in the male-specific endothelial response to an apoptotic trigger. This novel and sex-related role for secreted proteins, and mainly for PTX3, may open the way to the discovery of still unknown sex-specific mechanisms and pharmacological targets for the prevention and treatment of endothelial dysfunction at the onset of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.
PXD023867	33414172	Serine-Threonine Kinase TAO3-Mediated Trafficking of Endosomes Containing the Invadopodia Scaffold TKS5alpha Promotes Cancer Invasion and Tumor Growth. 	Serine-threonine kinase TAO3 mediated trafficking of endosomes containing the invadopodia scaffold TKS5-alpha promotes cancer invasion and tumor growth	Orbitrap Fusion, PTM Quantitation, TAO3, TAOK3, TKS5-alpha, TMT data, endosomes, invadopodia, phosphoproteomics	Invadopodia are actin-based proteolytic membrane protrusions required for invasive behavior and tumor growth. In this study, we used our high-content screening assay to identify kinases whose activity affects invadopodia formation. Among the top hits selected for further analysis was TAO3, an STE20-like kinase of the GCK subfamily. TAO3 was overexpressed in many human cancers and regulated invadopodia formation in melanoma, breast, and bladder cancers. Furthermore, TAO3 catalytic activity facilitated melanoma growth in three-dimensional matrices and in vivo. A novel, potent catalytic inhibitor of TAO3 was developed that inhibited invadopodia formation and function as well as tumor cell extravasation and growth. Treatment with this inhibitor demonstrated that TAO3 activity is required for endosomal trafficking of TKS5alpha, an obligate invadopodia scaffold protein. A phosphoproteomics screen for TAO3 substrates revealed the dynein subunit protein LIC2 as a relevant substrate. Knockdown of LIC2 or expression of a phosphomimetic form promoted invadopodia formation. Thus, TAO3 is a new therapeutic target with a distinct mechanism of action. SIGNIFICANCE: An unbiased screening approach identifies TAO3 as a regulator of invadopodia formation and function, supporting clinical development of this class of target.
PXD021979	33414412	ACOX2 is a prognostic marker and impedes the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma via PPARalpha pathway. 	hepatocellular carcinoma proteomics	liver cancer	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been extensively studied as one of the most aggressive tumors worldwide. However, its mortality rate remains high due to ideal diagnosis and treatment strategies. Uncovering novel genes with prognostic significance would shed light on improving the HCC patient's outcome. In our study, we applied data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative proteomics to investigate the expression landscape of 24 paired HCC patients. A total of 1029 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were screened. Then, we compared DEPs in our cohort with the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in The Cancer Genome Atlas, and investigated their prognostic significance, and found 183 prognosis-related genes (PRGs). By conducting protein-protein interaction topological analysis, we identified four subnetworks with prognostic significance. Acyl-CoA oxidase 2 (ACOX2) is a novel gene in subnetwork1, encodes a peroxisomal enzyme, and its function in HCC was investigated in vivo and in vitro. The lower expression of ACOX2 was validated by real-time quantitative PCR, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot. Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, wound healing, and transwell migration assay were applied to evaluate the impact of ACOX2 overexpression on the proliferation and migration abilities in two liver cancer cell lines. ACOX2 overexpression, using a subcutaneous xenograft tumor model, indicated a tumor suppressor role in HCC. To uncover the underlying mechanism, gene set enrichment analysis was conducted, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) was proposed to be a potential target. In conclusion, we demonstrated a PRG ACOX2, and its overexpression reduced the proliferation and metastasis of liver cancer in vitro and in vivo through PPARalpha pathway.
PXD020325	33414446	TRIB2 modulates proteasome function to reduce ubiquitin stability and protect liver cancer cells against oxidative stress. 	The protein possibly interacting with TRIB2 in Bel-7402 cells	TRIB2, liver cancer	The regulation of homeostasis in the Ubiquitin (Ub) proteasome system (UPS) is likely to be important for the development of liver cancer. Tribbles homolog 2 (TRIB2) is known to affect Ub E3 ligases (E3s) in liver cancer. However, whether TRIB2 regulates the UPS in other ways and the relevant mechanisms are still unknown. Here, we reveal that TRIB2 decreased Ub levels largely by stimulating proteasome degradation of Ub. In the proteasome, proteasome 20S subunit beta 5 (PSMB5) was critical for the function of TRIB2, although it did not directly interact with TRIB2. However, poly (rC) binding protein 2 (PCBP2), which was identified by mass spectrometry, directly interacted with both TRIB2 and PSMB5. PCBP2 was a prerequisite for the TRIB2 induction of PSMB5 activity and decreased Ub levels. A significant correlation between TRIB2 and PCBP2 was revealed in liver cancer specimens. Interestingly, TRIB2 suppressed the K48-ubiquitination of PCBP2 to increase its level. Therefore, a model showing that TRIB2 cooperates and stimulates PCBP2 to reduce Ub levels was established. Additionally, the reduction in Ub levels induced by TRIB2 and PCBP2 was dependent on K48-ubiquitination. PCBP2 was one of the possible downstream factors of TRIB2 and their interaction relied on the DQLVPD element of TRIB2 and the KH3 domain of PCBP2. This interaction was necessary to maintain the viability of the liver cancer cells and promote tumor growth. Mechanistically, glutathione peroxidase 4 functioned as one of the terminal effectors of TRIB2 and PCBP2 to protect liver cancer cells from oxidative damage. Taken together, the data indicate that, in addition to affecting E3s, TRIB2 plays a critical role in regulating UPS by modulating PSMB5 activity in proteasome to reduce Ub flux, and that targeting TRIB2 might be helpful in liver cancer treatments by enhancing the oxidative damage induced by therapeutic agents.
PXD021760	33415100	Proteomic Reveals Reasons for Acquired Drug Resistance in Lung Cancer Derived Brain Metastasis Based on a Newly Established Multi-Organ Microfluidic Chip Model. 	Proteomic reveals reasons for acquired drug resistance in lung cancer derived brain metastasis based on a newly established multi-organ microfluidic chip model	brain metastasis, drug resistance, lung cancer, microfluidic organ-on-a-chip, proteomic.	Anti-tumor drugs can effectively shrink the lesions of primary lung cancer; however, it has limited therapeutic effect on patients with brain metastasis (BM). A BM preclinical model based on a multi-organ microfluidic chip has been established proficiently in our previous work. In this study, the BM subpopulation (PC9-Br) derived from the parental PC9 cell line was isolated from the chip model and found to develop obvious resistance to antineoplastic drugs including chemotherapeutic agents (cisplatin, carboplatin, pemetrexed) and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) which target epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR); this suggested that the acquisition of drug-resistance by brain metastatic cells was attributable to the intrinsic changes in PC9-Br. Hence, we performed proteomic and revealed a greatly altered spectrum of BM protein expression compared with primary lung cancer cells. We identified the hyperactive glutathione (GSH) metabolism pathway with the overexpression of various GSH metabolism-related enzymes (GPX4, RRM2, GCLC, GPX1, GSTM4, GSTM1). Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH1A1, ALDH3A1) were also found to be upregulated in BM. What's more, loss of EGFR and phosphorylated EGFR in PC9-Br gave reasons for the TKIs resistance. Collectively, our findings indicated potential mechanisms for the acquirement of drug resistance occurred in BM, providing new strategies to overcome therapeutic resistance in lung cancer BM.
PXD022762	33417828	Proteomics of broad deubiquitylase inhibition unmasks redundant enzyme function to reveal substrates and assess enzyme specificity. 	Proteomics of broad deubiquitylase inhibition unmasks redundant enzyme function to reveal substrates and assess enzyme specificity	SPS-MS3, Xenopus, dub, ubiquitin	Deubiquitylating enzymes (DUBs) counteract ubiquitylation to control stability or activity of substrates. Identification of DUB substrates is challenging because multiple DUBs can act on the same substrate, thwarting genetic approaches. Here, we circumvent redundancy by chemically inhibiting multiple DUBs simultaneously in Xenopus egg extract. We used quantitative mass spectrometry to identify proteins whose ubiquitylation or stability is altered by broad DUB inhibition, and confirmed their DUB-dependent regulation with human orthologs, demonstrating evolutionary conservation. We next extended this method to profile DUB specificity. By adding recombinant DUBs to extract where DUB activity was broadly inhibited, but ubiquitylation and degradation were active at physiological rates, we profiled the ability of DUBs to rescue degradation of these substrates. We found that USP7 has a unique ability to broadly antagonize degradation. Together, we present an approach to identify DUB substrates and characterize DUB specificity that overcomes challenges posed by DUB redundancy.
PXD022654	33419956	Mammalian cell proliferation requires noncatalytic functions of O-GlcNAc transferase. 	Mammalian Cell Proliferation Requires Noncatalytic Functions of O-GlcNAc Transferase	HCF-1, O-GlcNAc transferase, OGT, cell proliferation, enzyme	O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT), found in the nucleus and cytoplasm of all mammalian cell types, is essential for cell proliferation. Why OGT is required for cell growth is not known. OGT performs two enzymatic reactions in the same active site. In one, it glycosylates thousands of different proteins, and in the other, it proteolytically cleaves another essential protein involved in gene expression. Deconvoluting OGT's myriad cellular roles has been challenging because genetic deletion is lethal; complementation methods have not been established. Here, we developed approaches to replace endogenous OGT with separation-of-function variants to investigate the importance of OGT's enzymatic activities for cell viability. Using genetic complementation, we found that OGT's glycosyltransferase function is required for cell growth but its protease function is dispensable. We next used complementation to construct a cell line with degron-tagged wild-type OGT. When OGT was degraded to very low levels, cells stopped proliferating but remained viable. Adding back catalytically inactive OGT rescued growth. Therefore, OGT has an essential noncatalytic role that is necessary for cell proliferation. By developing a method to quantify how OGT's catalytic and noncatalytic activities affect protein abundance, we found that OGT's noncatalytic functions often affect different proteins from its catalytic functions. Proteins involved in oxidative phosphorylation and the actin cytoskeleton were especially impacted by the noncatalytic functions. We conclude that OGT integrates both catalytic and noncatalytic functions to control cell physiology.
PXD021072	33420015	Bridgin connects the outer kinetochore to centromeric chromatin. 	Bridgin connects the outer kinetochore to centromeric chromatin	Cryptococcus neoformans, FLAG-IP	The microtubule-binding outer kinetochore is coupled to centromeric chromatin through CENP-C(Mif2), CENP-T(Cnn1), and CENP-U(Ame1) linker pathways originating from the constitutive centromere associated network (CCAN) of the inner kinetochore. Here, we demonstrate the recurrent loss of most CCAN components, including certain kinetochore linkers during the evolution of the fungal phylum of Basidiomycota. By kinetochore interactome analyses in a model basidiomycete and human pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans, a forkhead-associated domain containing protein "bridgin" was identified as a kinetochore component along with other predicted kinetochore proteins. In vivo and in vitro functional analyses of bridgin reveal its ability to connect the outer kinetochore with centromeric chromatin to ensure accurate chromosome segregation. Unlike established CCAN-based linkers, bridgin is recruited at the outer kinetochore establishing its role as a distinct family of kinetochore proteins. Presence of bridgin homologs in non-fungal lineages suggests an ancient divergent strategy exists to bridge the outer kinetochore with centromeric chromatin.
PXD007592	33420112	Octenidine-based hydrogel shows anti-inflammatory and protease-inhibitory capacities in wounded human skin. 	Proteomics-based insights into mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor resistance of cerebral melanoma metastases	BRAF mutation, Cerebral melanoma metastases, Drug resistance, MAP kinase inhibitor, Melanoma	Octenidine dihydrochloride (OCT) is a widely used antiseptic molecule, promoting skin wound healing accompanied with improved scar quality after surgical procedures. However, the mechanisms by which OCT is contributing to tissue regeneration are not yet completely clear. In this study, we have used a superficial wound model by tape stripping of ex vivo human skin. Protein profiles of wounded skin biopsies treated with OCT-containing hydrogel and the released secretome were analyzed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. Proteomics analysis of OCT-treated skin wounds revealed significant lower levels of key players in tissue remodeling as well as reepithelization after wounding such as pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-8, IL-6) and matrix-metalloproteinases (MMP1, MMP2, MMP3, MMP9) when compared to controls. In addition, enzymatic activity of several released MMPs into culture supernatants was significantly lower in OCT-treated samples. Our data give insights on the mode of action based on which OCT positively influences wound healing and identified anti-inflammatory and protease-inhibitory activities of OCT.
PXD021012	33420360	TAS4464, a NEDD8-activating enzyme inhibitor, activates both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways via c-Myc-mediated regulation in acute myeloid leukemia. 	DIA-MS based proteome analysis of HL-60 cells treated with new anti-cancer drug (TAS4464)	NAE inhibitor, leukemia	TAS4464, a potent, selective small molecule NEDD8-activating enzyme (NAE) inhibitor, leads to inactivation of cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligases (CRLs) and consequent accumulations of its substrate proteins. Here, we investigated the antitumor properties and action mechanism of TAS4464 in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). TAS4464 induced apoptotic cell death in various AML cell lines. TAS4464 treatments resulted in the activation of both the caspase-9-mediated intrinsic apoptotic pathway and caspase-8-mediated extrinsic apoptotic pathway in AML cells; combined treatment with inhibitors of these caspases markedly diminished TAS4464-induced apoptosis. In each apoptotic pathway, TAS4464 induced the mRNA transcription of the intrinsic proapoptotic factor NOXA and decreased that of the extrinsic antiapoptotic factor c-FLIP. RNA-sequencing analysis showed that the signaling pathway of the CRL substrate c-Myc was enriched after TAS4464 treatment. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay revealed that TAS4464-induced c-Myc bound to the PMAIP1 (encoding NOXA) and CFLAR (encoding c-FLIP) promoter regions, and siRNA-mediated c-Myc knockdown neutralized both TAS4464-mediated NOXA induction and c-FLIP downregulation. TAS4464 activated both caspase-8 and caspase-9 along with an increase in NOXA and a decrease in c-FLIP, resulting in complete tumor remission in a human AML xenograft model. These findings suggest that NAE inhibition leads to anti-AML activity via a novel c-Myc-dependent apoptosis induction mechanism.
PXD019114	33427395	Comprehensive identification of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylated proteins in Ustilaginoidea virens reveals the involvement of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation in fungal virulence. 	Tandem mass tags (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics approach quantified in 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation site of rice spikelets and Ustilaginoidea virens by mass spectrometry.	2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, TMT	Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib ) is a newly identified post-translational modification (PTM) that plays important roles in transcription and cell proliferation in eukaryotes. However, its function remains unknown in phytopathogenic fungi. Here, we performed a comprehensive assessment of Khib in the rice false smut fungus Ustilaginoidea virens, using Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics approach. A total of 3 426 Khib sites were identified in 977 proteins, suggesting that Khib is a common and complex PTM in U. virens. Our data demonstrated that the 2-hydroxyisobutyrylated proteins are involved in diverse biological processes. Network analysis of the modified proteins revealed a highly interconnected protein network that included many well-studied virulence factors. We confirmed that the Zn-binding reduced potassium dependency3-type histone deacetylase (UvRpd3) is a major enzyme that removes 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation and acetylation in U. virens. Notably, mutations of Khib sites in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) UvSlt2 significantly reduced fungal virulence and decreased the enzymatic activity of UvSlt2. Molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated that 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation in UvSlt2 increased the hydrophobic solvent-accessible surface area and thereby affected binding between the UvSlt2 enzyme and its substrates. Our findings thus establish Khib as a major post-translational modification in U. virens and point to an important role for Khib in the virulence of this phytopathogenic fungus.
PXD020808	33427478	Molecular Features of Lymph Node Metastasis in T1/2 Colorectal Cancer from Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded Archival Specimens. 	Mass spectrometric detection of proteins associated with lymph node metastasis in T1/2 colorectal cancer from FFPE archival specimens	DIA, FFPE, PRM, colorectal cancer	Histological risk factors for lymph node metastasis (LNM) in early-stage colorectal cancers (CRC) have been described, although the predictive utility of these factors varies. Improved LNM risk assessment based on findings in endoscopic colon and rectal excisions is necessary for optimal surgical management of CRC patients with pathologic T1- /T2-staged invasive depth (i.e., tumor not invading beyond the muscularis propria layer); as the current system is overly conservative, and results in many unnecessary radical surgeries. To identify molecular features in early CRC with elevated LNM potential, we carried out proteomic and gene expression profiling to compare T1 lymph node (LN) negative with T1/2 LN positive CRC tumors from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) specimens. Using a data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry workflow, we detected over 7400 proteins and quantified over 4400 in all 21 specimens. Proteins from tumors with LN metastasis were enriched with effectors of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and gene expression profiling confirmed activation of key transcription factors, SNAI1 and ZEB1, as well as a reduction in E-cadherin expression. Toward an implementation pathway, we investigated immunohistochemistry assays targeting four EMT-related proteins. While MS could reliably discern twofold protein abundance changes, we found the semiquantitative nature of IHC scoring limited confirmation of this degree of protein expression difference. This study demonstrated that EMT effectors are associated with locoregional metastasis in T1/T2 CRC and could be used to augment metastatic risk assessment, although further developments are required to enable routine implementation.
PXD022265	33427747	Why Inclusion Matters for Alzheimer's Disease Biomarker Discovery in Plasma. 	Plasma proteomics to discover diagnostic biomarker for Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease, Biomarker, Plasma, TMT	BACKGROUND: African American/Black adults have a disproportionate incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and are underrepresented in biomarker discovery efforts. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers for AD using a combination of proteomics and machine learning approaches in a cohort that included African American/Black adults. METHODS: We conducted a discovery-based plasma proteomics study on plasma samples (N = 113) obtained from clinically diagnosed AD and cognitively normal adults that were self-reported African American/Black or non-Hispanic White. Sets of differentially-expressed proteins were then classified using a support vector machine (SVM) to identify biomarker candidates. RESULTS: In total, 740 proteins were identified of which, 25 differentially-expressed proteins in AD came from comparisons within a single racial and ethnic background group. Six proteins were differentially-expressed in AD regardless of racial and ethnic background. Supervised classification by SVM yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.91 and accuracy of 86%for differentiating AD in samples from non-Hispanic White adults when trained with differentially-expressed proteins unique to that group. However, the same model yielded an AUC of 0.49 and accuracy of 47%for differentiating AD in samples from African American/Black adults. Other covariates such as age, APOE4 status, sex, and years of education were found to improve the model mostly in the samples from non-Hispanic White adults for classifying AD. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate the importance of study designs in AD biomarker discovery, which must include diverse racial and ethnic groups such as African American/Black adults to develop effective biomarkers.
PXD022964	33427868	A conserved, buried cysteine near the P-site is accessible to cysteine modifications and increases ROS stability in the P-type plasma membrane H+-ATPase. 	A conserved cysteine acts as an endogenous antioxidant in the P-type plasma membrane H+-ATPase	conserved cysteine, endogenous antioxidant, proton pump	Sulfur-containing amino acid residues function in antioxidative responses, which can be induced by the reactive oxygen species generated by excessive copper and hydrogen peroxide. In all Na+/K+, Ca2+, and H+ pumping P-type ATPases, a cysteine residue is present two residues upstream of the essential aspartate residue, which is obligatorily phosphorylated in each catalytic cycle. Despite its conservation, the function of this cysteine residue was hitherto unknown. In this study, we analyzed the function of the corresponding cysteine residue (Cys-327) in the autoinhibited plasma membrane H+-ATPase isoform 2 (AHA2) from Arabidopsis thaliana by mutagenesis and heterologous expression in a yeast host. Enzyme kinetics of alanine, serine, and leucine substitutions were identical with those of the wild-type pump but the sensitivity of the mutant pumps was increased towards copper and hydrogen peroxide. Peptide identification and sequencing by mass spectrometry demonstrated that Cys-327 was prone to oxidation. These data suggest that Cys-327 functions as a protective residue in the plasma membrane H+-ATPase, and possibly in other P-type ATPases as well.
PXD020218	33430070	Colistin Dependence in Extensively Drug-Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii Strain Is Associated with ISAjo2 and ISAba13 Insertions and Multiple Cellular Responses. 	Colistin dependence in multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii	Acinetobacter baumannii, LC-MS	The nosocomial opportunistic Gram-negative bacterial pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii is resistant to multiple antimicrobial agents and an emerging global health problem. The polymyxin antibiotic colistin, targeting the negatively charged lipid A component of the lipopolysaccharide on the bacterial cell surface, is often considered as the last-resort treatment, but resistance to colistin is unfortunately increasing worldwide. Notably, colistin-susceptible A. baumannii can also develop a colistin dependence after exposure to this drug in vitro. Colistin dependence might represent a stepping stone to resistance also in vivo. However, the mechanisms are far from clear. To address this issue, we combined proteogenomics, high-resolution microscopy, and lipid profiling to characterize and compare A. baumannii colistin-susceptible clinical isolate (Ab-S) of to its colistin-dependent subpopulation (Ab-D) obtained after subsequent passages in moderate colistin concentrations. Incidentally, in the colistin-dependent subpopulation the lpxA gene was disrupted by insertion of ISAjo2, the lipid A biosynthesis terminated, and Ab-D cells displayed a lipooligosaccharide (LOS)-deficient phenotype. Moreover, both mlaD and pldA genes were perturbed by insertions of ISAjo2 and ISAba13, and LOS-deficient bacteria displayed a capsule with decreased thickness as well as other surface imperfections. The major changes in relative protein abundance levels were detected in type 6 secretion system (T6SS) components, the resistance-nodulation-division (RND)-type efflux pumps, and in proteins involved in maintenance of outer membrane asymmetry. These findings suggest that colistin dependence in A. baumannii involves an ensemble of mechanisms seen in resistance development and accompanied by complex cellular events related to insertional sequences (ISs)-triggered LOS-deficiency. To our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating the involvement of ISAjo2 and ISAba13 IS elements in the modulation of the lipid A biosynthesis and associated development of dependence on colistin.
PXD023294	33430126	Iron Deficiency Reprograms Phosphorylation Signaling and Reduces O-GlcNAc Pathways in Neuronal Cells. 	Phosphorylation dynamics in neuronal cells	DFO, HT-22, iron deficiency, kinase activity, neuronal cell, phosphorylation	Micronutrient sensing is critical for cellular growth and differentiation. Deficiencies in essential nutrients such as iron strongly affect neuronal cell development and may lead to defects in neuronal function that cannot be remedied by subsequent iron supplementation. To understand the adaptive intracellular responses to iron deficiency in neuronal cells, we developed and utilized a Stable Isotopic Labeling of Amino acids in Cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative phosphoproteomics workflow. Our integrated approach was designed to comprehensively elucidate the changes in phosphorylation signaling under both acute and chronic iron-deficient cell models. In addition, we analyzed the differential cellular responses between iron deficiency and hypoxia (oxygen-deprived) in neuronal cells. Our analysis identified nearly 16,000 phosphorylation sites in HT-22 cells, a hippocampal-derived neuronal cell line, more than ten percent of which showed at least 2-fold changes in response to either hypoxia or acute/chronic iron deficiency. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that iron deficiency altered key metabolic and epigenetic pathways including the phosphorylation of proteins involved in iron sequestration, glutamate metabolism, and histone methylation. In particular, iron deficiency increased glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase (GFPT1) phosphorylation, which is a key enzyme in the glucosamine biosynthesis pathway and a target of 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), leading to reduced GFPT1 enzymatic activity and consequently lower global O-GlcNAc modification in neuronal cells. Taken together, our analysis of the phosphoproteome dynamics in response to iron and oxygen deprivation demonstrated an adaptive cellular response by mounting post-translational modifications that are critical for intracellular signaling and epigenetic programming in neuronal cells.
PXD012467	33430602	Proteomic and Functional Studies Reveal Detyrosinated Tubulin as Treatment Target in Sarcomere Mutation-Induced Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy. 	Proteomic profiling of a large cohort of HCM patients: genotype-specific protein changes	HCM, Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, label-free, myectomy, spectral counting	BACKGROUND: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common genetic heart disease. While =~50% of patients with HCM carry a sarcomere gene mutation (sarcomere mutation-positive, HCMSMP), the genetic background is unknown in the other half of the patients (sarcomere mutation-negative, HCMSMN). Genotype-specific differences have been reported in cardiac function. Moreover, HCMSMN patients have later disease onset and a better prognosis than HCMSMP patients. To define if genotype-specific derailments at the protein level may explain the heterogeneity in disease development, we performed a proteomic analysis in cardiac tissue from a clinically well-phenotyped HCM patient group. METHODS: A proteomics screen was performed in cardiac tissue from 39 HCMSMP patients, 11HCMSMN patients, and 8 nonfailing controls. Patients with HCM had obstructive cardiomyopathy with left ventricular outflow tract obstruction and diastolic dysfunction. A novel MYBPC32373insG mouse model was used to confirm functional relevance of our proteomic findings. RESULTS: In all HCM patient samples, we found lower levels of metabolic pathway proteins and higher levels of extracellular matrix proteins. Levels of total and detyrosinated alpha-tubulin were markedly higher in HCMSMP than in HCMSMN and controls. Higher tubulin detyrosination was also found in 2 unrelated MYBPC3 mouse models and its inhibition with parthenolide normalized contraction and relaxation time of isolated cardiomyocytes. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that microtubules and especially its detyrosination contribute to the pathomechanism of patients with HCMSMP. This is of clinical importance since it represents a potential treatment target to improve cardiac function in patients with HCMSMP, whereas a beneficial effect may be limited in patients with HCMSMN.
PXD021221	33430759	Complementary transcriptomic and proteomic analyses reveal the cellular and molecular processes that drive growth and development of Fasciola hepatica in the host liver. 	Proteomics analyses of immature (21 day post infection) Fasciola hepatica	Fasciola hepatica, LC-MS-MS, growth, liver, secretome, somatic proteome	BACKGROUND: The major pathogenesis associated with Fasciola hepatica infection results from the extensive tissue damage caused by the tunnelling and feeding activity of immature flukes during their migration, growth and development in the liver. This is compounded by the pathology caused by host innate and adaptive immune responses that struggle to simultaneously counter infection and repair tissue damage. RESULTS: Complementary transcriptomic and proteomic approaches defined the F. hepatica factors associated with their migration in the liver, and the resulting immune-pathogenesis. Immature liver-stage flukes express ~ 8000 transcripts that are enriched for transcription and translation processes reflective of intensive protein production and signal transduction pathways. Key pathways that regulate neoblast/pluripotent cells, including the PI3K-Akt signalling pathway, are particularly dominant and emphasise the importance of neoblast-like cells for the parasite's rapid development. The liver-stage parasites display different secretome profiles, reflecting their distinct niche within the host, and supports the view that cathepsin peptidases, cathepsin peptidase inhibitors, saposins and leucine aminopeptidases play a central role in the parasite's destructive migration, and digestion of host tissue and blood. Immature flukes are also primed for countering immune attack by secreting immunomodulating fatty acid binding proteins (FABP) and helminth defence molecules (FhHDM). Combined with published host microarray data, our results suggest that considerable immune cell infiltration and subsequent fibrosis of the liver tissue exacerbates oxidative stress within parenchyma that compels the expression of a range of antioxidant molecules within both host and parasite. CONCLUSIONS: The migration of immature F. hepatica parasites within the liver is associated with an increase in protein production, expression of signalling pathways and neoblast proliferation that drive their rapid growth and development. The secretion of a defined set of molecules, particularly cathepsin L peptidases, peptidase-inhibitors, saponins, immune-regulators and antioxidants allow the parasite to negotiate the liver micro-environment, immune attack and increasing levels of oxidative stress. This data contributes to the growing F. hepatica -omics information that can be exploited to understand parasite development more fully and for the design of novel control strategies to prevent host liver tissue destruction and pathology.
PXD023093	33430943	Uncovering deeply conserved motif combinations in rapidly evolving noncoding sequences. 	Uncovering deeply conserved motif combinations in rapidly evolving noncoding sequences	Chaserr, Dhx36, LncLOOM, conserved elements, lncRNAs	BACKGROUND: Animal genomes contain thousands of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) genes, a growing subset of which are thought to be functionally important. This functionality is often mediated by short sequence elements scattered throughout the RNA sequence that correspond to binding sites for small RNAs and RNA binding proteins. Throughout vertebrate evolution, the sequences of lncRNA genes changed extensively, so that it is often impossible to obtain significant alignments between sequences of lncRNAs from evolutionary distant species, even when synteny is evident. This often prohibits identifying conserved lncRNAs that are likely to be functional or prioritizing constrained regions for experimental interrogation. RESULTS: We introduce here LncLOOM, a novel algorithmic framework for the discovery and evaluation of syntenic combinations of short motifs. LncLOOM is based on a graph representation of the input sequences and uses integer linear programming to efficiently compare dozens of sequences that have thousands of bases each and to evaluate the significance of the recovered motifs. We show that LncLOOM is capable of identifying specific, biologically relevant motifs which are conserved throughout vertebrates and beyond in lncRNAs and 3'UTRs, including novel functional RNA elements in the CHASERR lncRNA that are required for regulation of CHD2 expression. CONCLUSIONS: We expect that LncLOOM will become a broadly used approach for the discovery of functionally relevant elements in the noncoding genome.
PXD022694	33431665	The secretome mouse provides a genetic platform to delineate tissue-specific in vivo secretion. 	A genetic platform to delineate tissue-specific in vivo secretion	ER-BioIDHA, Secretome, biotinylation, endothelial cells, muscle, serum	At present, it remains difficult to deconvolute serum in order to identify the cell or tissue origin of a given circulating protein. Here, by exploiting the properties of proximity biotinylation, we describe a mouse model that enables the elucidation of the in vivo tissue-specific secretome. As an example, we demonstrate how we can readily identify in vivo endothelial-specific secretion as well as how this model allows for the characterization of muscle-derived serum proteins that either increase or decrease with exercise. This genetic platform should, therefore, be of wide utility in understanding normal and disease physiology and for the rational design of tissue-specific disease biomarkers.
PXD018774	33431669	Modulation of immune cell reactivity with cis-binding Siglec agonists. 	Modulation of immune cell reactivity with cis-binding Siglec-9 agonists	Phosphoproteomics, TMT	Inflammatory pathologies caused by phagocytes lead to numerous debilitating conditions, including chronic pain and blindness due to age-related macular degeneration. Many members of the sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin (Siglec) family are immunoinhibitory receptors whose agonism is an attractive approach for antiinflammatory therapy. Here, we show that synthetic lipid-conjugated glycopolypeptides can insert into cell membranes and engage Siglec receptors in cis, leading to inhibitory signaling. Specifically, we construct a cis-binding agonist of Siglec-9 and show that it modulates mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling in reporter cell lines, immortalized macrophage and microglial cell lines, and primary human macrophages. Thus, these cis-binding agonists of Siglecs present a method for therapeutic suppression of immune cell reactivity.
PXD017245	33431863	Osteoclast-derived apoptotic bodies couple bone resorption and formation in bone remodeling. 	Molecular Profiling of Osteoclast Derived Apoptotic Bodies Reveals Extended Intercellular Regulations after Cell Death	Molecular Profiling of Osteoclast Derived Apoptotic Bodies Reveals Extended Intercellular Regulations after Cell Death	Bone remodeling is precisely coordinated by bone resorption and formation. Apoptotic osteoclasts generate large amounts of apoptotic bodies (ABs) marking the end of the bone resorption phase, whereas the functions of osteoclast-derived ABs remain largely unknown. Here, we identified the molecular profile of ABs derived from osteoclasts at distinct differentiation stages and investigated their corresponding functions. ABs were isolated from apoptotic bone marrow macrophages, preosteoclasts, and mature osteoclasts induced by staurosporine. Proteomic signature analysis with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry suggested marked protein cargo differences among the different ABs. Further bioinformatic analysis showed that the proteomic signatures of the ABs were highly similar to those of their parental cells. Functionally, pOC-ABs induced endothelial progenitor cell differentiation and increased CD31(hi)Emcn(hi) endothelial cell formation in a murine bone defect model via their PDGF-BB cargo. mOC-ABs induced osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells and facilitated osteogenesis via RANKL reverse signaling. In summary, we mapped the detailed proteomic landscapes of ABs derived from osteoclasts and showed that their potential biological roles are important in coupling bone formation with resorption during bone remodeling.
PXD021939	33431889	LONP1 and mtHSP70 cooperate to promote mitochondrial protein folding. 	LONP1 and mtHSP70 cooperate to promote mitochondrial protein folding	aggregates, mitochondria, protein homeostasis	Most mitochondrial precursor polypeptides are imported from the cytosol into the mitochondrion, where they must efficiently undergo folding. Mitochondrial precursors are imported as unfolded polypeptides. For proteins of the mitochondrial matrix and inner membrane, two separate chaperone systems, HSP60 and mitochondrial HSP70 (mtHSP70), facilitate protein folding. We show that LONP1, an AAA+ protease of the mitochondrial matrix, works with the mtHSP70 chaperone system to promote mitochondrial protein folding. Inhibition of LONP1 results in aggregation of a protein subset similar to that caused by knockdown of DNAJA3, a co-chaperone of mtHSP70. LONP1 is required for DNAJA3 and mtHSP70 solubility, and its ATPase, but not its protease activity, is required for this function. In vitro, LONP1 shows an intrinsic chaperone-like activity and collaborates with mtHSP70 to stabilize a folding intermediate of OXA1L. Our results identify LONP1 as a critical factor in the mtHSP70 folding pathway and demonstrate its proposed chaperone activity.
PXD022641	33431899	High-fat diet-induced upregulation of exosomal phosphatidylcholine contributes to insulin resistance. 	High fat diet mice intestinal epithelial exosomal proteins were analyzed by MSMS.	H-Exo, Insulin resistance, L-Exo	High-fat diet (HFD) decreases insulin sensitivity. How high-fat diet causes insulin resistance is largely unknown. Here, we show that lean mice become insulin resistant after being administered exosomes isolated from the feces of obese mice fed a HFD or from patients with type II diabetes. HFD altered the lipid composition of exosomes from predominantly phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) in exosomes from lean animals (L-Exo) to phosphatidylcholine (PC) in exosomes from obese animals (H-Exo). Mechanistically, we show that intestinal H-Exo is taken up by macrophages and hepatocytes, leading to inhibition of the insulin signaling pathway. Moreover, exosome-derived PC binds to and activates AhR, leading to inhibition of the expression of genes essential for activation of the insulin signaling pathway, including IRS-2, and its downstream genes PI3K and Akt. Together, our results reveal HFD-induced exosomes as potential contributors to the development of insulin resistance. Intestinal exosomes thus have potential as broad therapeutic targets.
PXD016887	33431914	Quantitative proteomics analysis of Angiostrongylus vasorum-induced alterations in dog serum sheds light on the pathogenesis of canine angiostrongylosis. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of Angiostrongylus vasorum-induced alterations in dog serum	Angiostrongylus vasorum	Blood contains hundreds of proteins, reflecting ongoing cellular processes and immune reactions. Infections with the blood-dwelling cardiopulmonary nematode Angiostrongylus vasorum in dogs manifest with a broad spectrum of clinical signs including respiratory distress, bleeding diathesis and neurological signs, and are associated with a perturbed blood protein profile in dogs. However, current knowledge does not completely explain the observed pathologies induced by A. vasorum infections, including bleeding disorders. Using sera from experimentally infected dogs, dog serum proteome was analysed by quantitative mass spectrometry methods over several time points before and after inoculation. Following computational analysis, we identified 139 up- and downregulated proteins after infection (log2 ratio cut-off >= 1.0; q-value <= 0.05). Among upregulated proteins were chitinase 3-like 1 and pulmonary surfactant-associated protein B (log2 fold-changes >= 5). Pathway enrichment revealed the complement (especially the lectin pathway) and coagulation cascades as significantly affected upon analysis of downregulated proteins. Among them were mannan-binding lectin serine peptidases, ficolin, and coagulation factor XIII-B. These results bring new elements towards understanding the underlying pathomechanisms of bleeding diatheses observed in some A. vasorum-infected dogs.
PXD021827	33434266	Insights into synthesis and function of KsgA/Dim1-dependent rRNA modifications in archaea. 	Impact of KsgA/Dim1 on proteostasis in Haloferax volcanii and Escherichia coli	Dim1, Escherichia coli., Haloferax volcanii, KsgA, archaea, dimethyltransferase, m6A, ribosome	Ribosomes are intricate molecular machines ensuring proper protein synthesis in every cell. Ribosome biogenesis is a complex process which has been intensively analyzed in bacteria and eukaryotes. In contrast, our understanding of the in vivo archaeal ribosome biogenesis pathway remains less characterized. Here, we have analyzed the in vivo role of the almost universally conserved ribosomal RNA dimethyltransferase KsgA/Dim1 homolog in archaea. Our study reveals that KsgA/Dim1-dependent 16S rRNA dimethylation is dispensable for the cellular growth of phylogenetically distant archaea. However, proteomics and functional analyses suggest that archaeal KsgA/Dim1 and its rRNA modification activity (i) influence the expression of a subset of proteins and (ii) contribute to archaeal cellular fitness and adaptation. In addition, our study reveals an unexpected KsgA/Dim1-dependent variability of rRNA modifications within the archaeal phylum. Combining structure-based functional studies across evolutionary divergent organisms, we provide evidence on how rRNA structure sequence variability (re-)shapes the KsgA/Dim1-dependent rRNA modification status. Finally, our results suggest an uncoupling between the KsgA/Dim1-dependent rRNA modification completion and its release from the nascent small ribosomal subunit. Collectively, our study provides additional understandings into principles of molecular functional adaptation, and further evolutionary and mechanistic insights into an almost universally conserved step of ribosome synthesis.
PXD017047	33434703	Isolation and whole protein characterization of species A and B bovine rotaviruses from Chinese calves. 	Isolation and whole protein characterization of species A and B bovine rotaviruses from Chinese calves.	BRA, BRB, Bovine Rotavirus, ESl-LC- MS/MS, Protein typing	Rotaviruses (RVs) account for severe diarrhea in children and young animals globally. In the current study, the fecal samples of diarrheic calves from a beef farm in Inner Mongolia were screened for RVA by ELISA and RT-PCR, followed by culture of three positive RVA samples in the MA-104 cell line. After 10 blind passages, cytopathic effects (CPE) appeared as detachment, granulation, and clustering of the inoculated cells. The virus isolates were identified by RT-PCR (VP6 gene RVA) and ESI-LC-MS/MS for whole protein sequencing. The protein sequences demonstrated the presence of two strains from species A rotavirus and one RVB strain; RVA/Cow-tc/CHN/35333/2019/G6P[5] was mixed with one RVB strain (RVB/Cow-tc/CHN/35334/2019/G5P[3]) in two samples, and RVA/Cow-tc/CHN/10927/2019/G8P[7] was found in one sample. They are of genotype constellations (G6-P[5]-I2-R2-C2-M2-A3-N2-T6-E2-H3), (G8-P[7]-I5-R1-C1- M2-A1-N1-T1-E1-H1), and (G5-P[3]-I3-R5-C5-A5-N4-H5), respectively. Besides, phylogenetic analysis of the obtained sequences demonstrated viral evolution.
PXD014510	33435483	Secretome Analysis of Clavibacter nebraskensis Strains Treated with Natural Xylem Sap In Vitro Predicts Involvement of Glycosyl Hydrolases and Proteases in Bacterial Aggressiveness. 	Clavibacter nebraskensis secretome analysis	Clavibacter, MS, xylem sap	The Gram-positive bacterium Clavibacter nebraskensis (Cn) causes Goss's wilt and leaf blight on corn in the North American Central Plains with yield losses as high as 30%. Cn strains vary in aggressiveness on corn, with highly aggressive strains causing much more serious symptoms and damage to crops. Since Cn inhabits the host xylem, we investigated differences in the secreted proteomes of Cn strains to determine whether these could account for phenotypic differences in aggressiveness. Highly and a weakly aggressive Cn strains (Cn14-15-1 and DOAB232, respectively) were cultured, in vitro, in the xylem sap of corn (CXS; host) and tomato (TXS; non-host). The secretome of the Cn strains were extracted and processed, and a comparative bottom-up proteomics approach with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to determine their identities and concentration. Relative quantitation of peptides was based on precursor ion intensities to measure protein abundances. In total, 745 proteins were identified in xylem sap media. In CXS, a total of 658 and 396 proteins were identified in strains Cn14-5-1 and DOAB232, respectively. The unique and the differentially abundant proteins in the secretome of strain Cn14-5-1 were higher in either sap medium compared to DOAB232. These proteins were sorted using BLAST2GO and assigned to 12 cellular functional processes. Virulence factors, e.g., cellulase, beta-glucosidase, beta-galactosidase, chitinase, beta-1,4-xylanase, and proteases were generally higher in abundance in the aggressive Cn isolate. This was corroborated by enzymatic activity assays of cellulase and protease in CXS. These proteins were either not detected or detected at significantly lower abundance levels in Cn strains grown in non-host xylem sap (tomato), suggesting potential factors involved in Cn-host (corn) interactions.
PXD018173	33436375	CSF SERPINA3 Levels Are Elevated in Patients With Progressive MS. 	CSF SERPINA3 levels are increased in patients with progressive multiple sclerosis	multiple sclerosis	OBJECTIVE: To identify biomarkers associated with progressive phases of MS and with neuroprotective potential. METHODS: Combined analysis of the transcriptional and proteomic profiles obtained in CNS tissue during chronic progressive phases of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) with the transcriptional profile obtained during the differentiation of murine neural stem cells into neurons. Candidate biomarkers were measured by ELISA in the CSF of 65 patients with MS (29 with relapsing-remitting MS [RRMS], 20 with secondary progressive MS, and 16 with primary progressive MS [PPMS]) and 30 noninflammatory neurologic controls (NINCs). RESULTS: Integrative analysis of gene and protein expression data identified 2 biomarkers, the serine protease inhibitor Serpina3n and the calcium-binding protein S100A4, which were upregulated in chronic progressive EAE and whose expression was induced during neuronal differentiation. Immunofluorescence studies revealed a primarily neuronal expression of S100A4 and Serpina3n during EAE. CSF levels of SERPINA3, the human ortholog of murine Serpina3n, and S100A4 were increased in patients with MS compared with NINCs (SERPINA3: 1,320 vs 838.6 ng/mL, p = 0.0001; S100A4: 1.6 vs 0.8 ng/mL, p = 0.02). Within the MS group, CSF SERPINA3 levels were significantly elevated in patients with progressive forms, mainly patients with PPMS compared with patients with RRMS (1,617 vs 1,129 ng/mL, p = 0.02) and NINCs (1,617 vs 838.6 ng/mL, p = 0.0001). Of interest, CSF SERPINA3 levels significantly correlated with CSF neurofilament light chain levels only in the PPMS group (r = 0.62, p = 0.01). CONCLUSION: These results point to a role of SERPINA3 as a biomarker associated with the progressive forms of MS, particularly PPMS.
PXD019587	33438746	Temporal modulation of the NF-kappaB RelA network in response to different types of DNA damage. 	Temporal modulation of the NF-kB network in response to different types of DNA damage ETOPOSIDE C4PR_LIV	DNA damage, NF-B, RelA, etoposide, hydroxyurea, p65, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Different types of DNA damage can initiate phosphorylation-mediated signalling cascades that result in stimulus specific pro- or anti-apoptotic cellular responses. Amongst its many roles, the NF-kappaB transcription factor RelA is central to these DNA damage response pathways. However, we still lack understanding of the co-ordinated signalling mechanisms that permit different DNA damaging agents to induce distinct cellular outcomes through RelA. Here, we use label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics to examine the temporal effects of exposure of U2OS cells to either etoposide (ETO) or hydroxyurea (HU) by monitoring the phosphorylation status of RelA and its protein binding partners. Although few stimulus-specific differences were identified in the constituents of phosphorylated RelA interactome after exposure to these DNA damaging agents, we observed subtle, but significant, changes in their phosphorylation states, as a function of both type and duration of treatment. The DNA double strand break (DSB)-inducing ETO invoked more rapid, sustained responses than HU, with regulated targets primarily involved in transcription, cell division and canonical DSB repair. Kinase substrate prediction of ETO-regulated phosphosites suggest abrogation of CDK and ERK1 signalling, in addition to the known induction of ATM/ATR. In contrast, HU-induced replicative stress mediated temporally dynamic regulation, with phosphorylated RelA binding partners having roles in rRNA/mRNA processing and translational initiation, many of which contained a 14-3-3epsilon binding motif, and were putative substrates of the dual specificity kinase CLK1. Our data thus point to differential regulation of key cellular processes and the involvement of distinct signalling pathways in modulating DNA damage-specific functions of RelA.
PXD022585	33440166	An isocaloric moderately high-fat diet extends lifespan in male rats and Drosophila. 	An Isocaloric High-Fat Diet Improves Lifespan in Rats and Drosophila	High-Fat Diet, Isocaloric, Lifespan	The health effect of dietary fat has been one of the most vexing issues in the field of nutrition. Few animal studies have examined the impact of high-fat diets on lifespan by controlling energy intake. In this study, we found that compared to a normal diet, an isocaloric moderately high-fat diet (IHF) significantly prolonged lifespan by decreasing the profiles of free fatty acids (FFAs) in serum and multiple tissues via downregulating FFA anabolism and upregulating catabolism pathways in rats and flies. Proteomics analysis in rats identified PPRC1 as a key protein that was significantly upregulated by nearly 2-fold by IHF, and among the FFAs, only palmitic acid (PA) was robustly and negatively associated with the expression of PPRC1. Using PPRC1 transgenic RNAi/overexpression flies and in vitro experiments, we demonstrated that IHF significantly reduced PA, which could upregulate PPRC1 through PPARG, resulting in improvements in oxidative stress and inflammation and prolonging the lifespan.
PXD019544	33441310	Multiomics Characterization of Low-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma Identifies Potential Biomarkers of MEK Inhibitor Sensitivity and Therapeutic Vulnerability. 	Multiomics Characterization of Potential Therapeutic Vulnerabilities in Low-grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma	TMT, ovarian carcinoma	Low-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (LGSOC) is a rare tumor subtype with high case fatality rates in patients with metastatic disease. There is a pressing need to develop effective treatments using newly available preclinical models for therapeutic discovery and drug evaluation. Here, we use multiomics integration of whole-exome sequencing, RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics on 14 LGSOC cell lines to elucidate novel biomarkers and therapeutic vulnerabilities. Comparison of LGSOC cell line data with LGSOC tumor data enabled predictive biomarker identification of MEK inhibitor (MEKi) efficacy, with KRAS mutations found exclusively in MEKi-sensitive cell lines and NRAS mutations found mostly in MEKi-resistant cell lines. Distinct patterns of Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer mutational signatures were identified in MEKi-sensitive and MEKi-resistant cell lines. Deletions of CDKN2A/B and MTAP genes were more frequent in cell lines than tumor samples and possibly represent key driver events in the absence of KRAS/NRAS/BRAF mutations. These LGSOC cell lines were representative models of the molecular aberrations found in LGSOC tumors. For prediction of in vitro MEKi efficacy, proteomic data provided better discrimination than gene expression data. Condensin, minichromosome maintenance, and replication factor C protein complexes were identified as potential treatment targets in MEKi-resistant cell lines. This study suggests that CDKN2A/B or MTAP deficiency may be exploited using synthetically lethal treatment strategies, highlighting the importance of using proteomic data as a tool for molecular drug prediction. Multiomics approaches are crucial to improving our understanding of the molecular underpinnings of LGSOC and applying this information to develop new therapies. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings highlight the utility of global multiomics to characterize LGSOC cell lines as research models, to determine biomarkers of MEKi resistance, and to identify potential novel therapeutic targets.
PXD019005	33442015	Cabozantinib for neurofibromatosis type 1-related plexiform neurofibromas: a phase 2 trial. 	Kinome profiling: cabozantinib treatment in a mouse model of plexiform neurofibroma	NF1, XL184, receptor tyrosine kinase	Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) plexiform neurofibromas (PNs) are progressive, multicellular neoplasms that cause morbidity and may transform to sarcoma. Treatment of Nf1(fl/fl);Postn-Cre mice with cabozantinib, an inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases, caused a reduction in PN size and number and differential modulation of kinases in cell lineages that drive PN growth. Based on these findings, the Neurofibromatosis Clinical Trials Consortium conducted a phase II, open-label, nonrandomized Simon two-stage study to assess the safety, efficacy and biologic activity of cabozantinib in patients >=16 years of age with NF1 and progressive or symptomatic, inoperable PN ( NCT02101736 ). The trial met its primary outcome, defined as >=25% of patients achieving a partial response (PR, defined as >=20% reduction in target lesion volume as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) after 12 cycles of therapy. Secondary outcomes included adverse events (AEs), patient-reported outcomes (PROs) assessing pain and quality of life (QOL), pharmacokinetics (PK) and the levels of circulating endothelial cells and cytokines. Eight of 19 evaluable (42%) trial participants achieved a PR. The median change in tumor volume was 15.2% (range, +2.2% to -36.9%), and no patients had disease progression while on treatment. Nine patients required dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy due to AEs; common AEs included gastrointestinal toxicity, hypothyroidism, fatigue and palmar plantar erythrodysesthesia. A total of 11 grade 3 AEs occurred in eight patients. Patients with PR had a significant reduction in tumor pain intensity and pain interference in daily life but no change in global QOL scores. These data indicate that cabozantinib is active in NF1-associated PN, resulting in tumor volume reduction and pain improvement.
PXD021930	33442059	Dire wolves were the last of an ancient New World canid lineage. 	Dire wolves were the last of an ancient New World canid lineage	Dire wolf, aDNA, collagen, phylogenetics	Dire wolves are considered to be one of the most common and widespread large carnivores in Pleistocene America(1), yet relatively little is known about their evolution or extinction. Here, to reconstruct the evolutionary history of dire wolves, we sequenced five genomes from sub-fossil remains dating from 13,000 to more than 50,000 years ago. Our results indicate that although they were similar morphologically to the extant grey wolf, dire wolves were a highly divergent lineage that split from living canids around 5.7 million years ago. In contrast to numerous examples of hybridization across Canidae(2,3), there is no evidence for gene flow between dire wolves and either North American grey wolves or coyotes. This suggests that dire wolves evolved in isolation from the Pleistocene ancestors of these species. Our results also support an early New World origin of dire wolves, while the ancestors of grey wolves, coyotes and dholes evolved in Eurasia and colonized North America only relatively recently.
PXD021340	33442062	Chaperone-mediated autophagy sustains haematopoietic stem-cell function. 	Mouse HSC proteomics in basal or 5FU activated conditions	HSC, aging	The activation of mostly quiescent haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is a prerequisite for life-long production of blood cells(1). This process requires major molecular adaptations to allow HSCs to meet the regulatory and metabolic requirements for cell division(2-4). The mechanisms that govern cellular reprograming upon stem-cell activation, and the subsequent return of stem cells to quiescence, have not been fully characterized. Here we show that chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA)(5), a selective form of lysosomal protein degradation, is involved in sustaining HSC function in adult mice. CMA is required for protein quality control in stem cells and for the upregulation of fatty acid metabolism upon HSC activation. We find that CMA activity in HSCs decreases with age and show that genetic or pharmacological activation of CMA can restore the functionality of old mouse and human HSCs. Together, our findings provide mechanistic insights into a role for CMA in sustaining quality control, appropriate energetics and overall long-term HSC function. Our work suggests that CMA may be a promising therapeutic target for enhancing HSC function in conditions such as ageing or stem-cell transplantation.
PXD021727	33442385	Biotin-Labelled Clavulanic Acid to Identify Proteins Target for Haptenation in Serum: Implications in Allergy Studies. 	Biotin-Labelled Clavulanic Acid to Identify Proteins Target for Haptenation in Serum: Implications in Allergy Studies	betalactam, biotin tag, biotinylation, clavulanate, drug allergy, haptenation	Clavulanic acid (CLV) and amoxicillin, frequently administered in combination, can be independently involved in allergic reactions. Protein haptenation with beta-lactams is considered necessary to activate the immune system. The aim of this study was to assess the suitability of biotinylated analogues of CLV as probes to study protein haptenation by this beta-lactam. Two synthetic approaches afforded the labeling of CLV through esterification of its carboxylic group with a biotin moiety, via either direct binding (CLV-B) or tetraethylenglycol linker (CLV-TEG-B). The second analogue offered advantages as solubility in aqueous solution and potential lower steric hindrance for both intended interactions, with the protein and with avidin. NMR reactivity studies showed that both CLV and CLV-TEG-B reacts through beta-lactam ring opening by aliphatic amino nitrogen, however with different stability of resulting conjugates. Unlike CLV conjugates, that promoted the decomposition of clavulanate fragment, the conjugates obtained with the CLV-TEG-B remained linked, as a whole structure including biotin, to nucleophile and showed a better stability. This was a desired key feature to allow CLV-TEG-B conjugated protein detection at great sensitivity. We have used biotin detection and mass spectrometry (MS) to detect the haptenation of human serum albumin (HSA) and human serum proteins. MS of conjugates showed that HSA could be modified by CLV-TEG-B. Remarkably, HSA preincubation with CLV excess only reduced moderately the incorporation of CLV-TEG-B, which could be attributed to different protein interferences. The CLV-TEG-B fragment with opened beta-lactam was detected bound to the (404-430)HSA peptide of the treated protein. Incubation of human serum with CLV-TEG-B resulted in the haptenation of several proteins that were identified by 2D-electrophoresis and peptide mass fingerprinting as HSA, haptoglobin, and heavy and light chains of immunoglobulins. Taken together, our results show that tagged-CLV keeps some of the CLV features. Moreover, although we observe a different behavior in the conjugate stability and in the site of protein modification, the similar reactivity indicates that it could constitute a valuable tool to identify protein targets for haptenation by CLV with high sensitivity to get insights into the activation of the immune system by CLV and mechanisms involved in beta-lactams allergy.
PXD023058	33442901	SP3-FAIMS Chemoproteomics for High-Coverage Profiling of the Human Cysteinome*. 	Rapid and high coverage profile of human cysteineome-Figure 6	Cysteine, FAIMS, SP3	Chemoproteomics has enabled the rapid and proteome-wide discovery of functional, redox-sensitive, and ligandable cysteine residues. Despite widespread adoption and considerable advances in both sample-preparation workflows and MS instrumentation, chemoproteomics experiments still typically only identify a small fraction of all cysteines encoded by the human genome. Here, we develop an optimized sample-preparation workflow that combines enhanced peptide labeling with single-pot, solid-phase-enhanced sample-preparation (SP3) to improve the recovery of biotinylated peptides, even from small sample sizes. By combining this improved workflow with on-line high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) separation of labeled peptides, we achieve unprecedented coverage of >14000 unique cysteines in a single-shot 70 min experiment. Showcasing the wide utility of the SP3-FAIMS chemoproteomic method, we find that it is also compatible with competitive small-molecule screening by isotopic tandem orthogonal proteolysis-activity-based protein profiling (isoTOP-ABPP). In aggregate, our analysis of 18 samples from seven cell lines identified 34225 unique cysteines using only ~28 h of instrument time. The comprehensive spectral library and improved coverage provided by the SP3-FAIMS chemoproteomics method will provide the technical foundation for future studies aimed at deciphering the functions and druggability of the human cysteineome.
PXD020542	33443154	E3 ubiquitin ligase Mindbomb 1 facilitates nuclear delivery of adenovirus genomes. 	Proximal proteome and ubiquitination landscape of E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Mindbomb 1	APEX2, Adenovirus, LFQ, Mindbomb 1, TUBEs	The journey from plasma membrane to nuclear pore is a critical step in the lifecycle of DNA viruses, many of which must successfully deposit their genomes into the nucleus for replication. Viral capsids navigate this vast distance through the coordinated hijacking of a number of cellular host factors, many of which remain unknown. We performed a gene-trap screen in haploid cells to identify host factors for adenovirus (AdV), a DNA virus that can cause severe respiratory illness in immune-compromised individuals. This work identified Mindbomb 1 (MIB1), an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in neurodevelopment, as critical for AdV infectivity. In the absence of MIB1, we observed that viral capsids successfully traffic to the proximity of the nucleus but ultimately fail to deposit their genomes within. The capacity of MIB1 to promote AdV infection was dependent on its ubiquitination activity, suggesting that MIB1 may mediate proteasomal degradation of one or more negative regulators of AdV infection. Employing complementary proteomic approaches to characterize proteins proximal to MIB1 upon AdV infection and differentially ubiquitinated in the presence or absence of MIB1, we observed an intersection between MIB1 and ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) largely unexplored in mammalian cells. This work uncovers yet another way that viruses utilize host cell machinery for their own replication, highlighting a potential target for therapeutic interventions that counter AdV infection.
PXD019838	33444449	Ecd promotes U5 snRNP maturation and Prp8 stability. 	Ecd protein interactome in Drosophila melanogaster S2 cells	Drosophila melanogaster, U5 snRNP assembly	Pre-mRNA splicing catalyzed by the spliceosome represents a critical step in the regulation of gene expression contributing to transcriptome and proteome diversity. The spliceosome consists of five small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles (snRNPs), the biogenesis of which remains only partially understood. Here we define the evolutionarily conserved protein Ecdysoneless (Ecd) as a critical regulator of U5 snRNP assembly and Prp8 stability. Combining Drosophila genetics with proteomic approaches, we demonstrate the Ecd requirement for the maintenance of adult healthspan and lifespan and identify the Sm ring protein SmD3 as a novel interaction partner of Ecd. We show that the predominant task of Ecd is to deliver Prp8 to the emerging U5 snRNPs in the cytoplasm. Ecd deficiency, on the other hand, leads to reduced Prp8 protein levels and compromised U5 snRNP biogenesis, causing loss of splicing fidelity and transcriptome integrity. Based on our findings, we propose that Ecd chaperones Prp8 to the forming U5 snRNP allowing completion of the cytoplasmic part of the U5 snRNP biogenesis pathway necessary to meet the cellular demand for functional spliceosomes.
PXD020525	33444728	Structural basis of ubiquitination mediated by protein splicing in early Eukarya. 	Structural basis of ubiquitination mediated by protein splicing in early Eukarya	ubiquitin protein splicing	BACKGROUND: Inteins are intervening proteins, which are known to perform protein splicing. The reaction results in the production of an intein domain and an inteinless protein, which shows no trace of the insertion. BIL2 is part of the polyubiquitin locus of Tetrahymena thermophila (BUBL), where two bacterial-intein-like (BIL) domains lacking the C + 1 nucleophile, are flanked by two independent ubiquitin-like domains (ubl4/ubl5). METHODS: We solved the X-ray structures of BIL2 in both the inactive and unprecedented, zinc-induced active, forms. Then, we characterized by mass spectrometry the BUBL splicing products in the absence and in the presence of T.thRas-GTPase. Finally, we investigated the effect of ubiquitination on T.thRas-GTPase by molecular dynamics simulations. RESULTS: The structural analysis demonstrated that zinc-induced conformational change activates protein splicing. Moreover, mass spectrometry characterization of the splicing products shed light on the possible function of BIL2, which operates as a "single-ubiquitin-dispensing-platform", allowing the conjugation, via isopeptide bond formation (K(epsilonNH2)-C-ter), of ubl4 to either ubl5 or T.thRas-GTPase. Lastly, we demonstrated that T.thRas-GTPase ubiquitination occurs in proximity of the nucleotide binding pocket and stabilizes the protein active state. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that BIL2 is activated by zinc and that protein splicing induced by this intein does not take place through classical or aminolysis mechanisms but via formation of a covalent isopeptide bond, causing the ubiquitination of endogenous substrates such as T.thRas-GTPase. GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: In this "enzyme-free" ubiquitination mechanism the isopeptide formation, which canonically requires E1-E2-E3 enzymatic cascade and constitutes the alphabet of ubiquitin biology, is achieved in a single, concerted step without energy consumption.
PXD010297	33446097	Proteome-wide and lysine crotonylation profiling reveals the importance of crotonylation in chrysanthemum (Dendranthema grandiforum) under low-temperature. 	Proteomes and Histone Crotonylation Analysis Reveals the Importance of Crotonylation Low Temperature in Chrysanthemum	Chrysanthemum, crotonylation	BACKGROUND: Low-temperature severely affects the growth and development of chrysanthemum which is one kind of ornamental plant well-known and widely used in the world. Lysine crotonylation is a recently identified post-translational modification (PTM) with multiple cellular functions. However, lysine crotonylation under low-temperature stress has not been studied. RESULTS: Proteome-wide and lysine crotonylation of chrysanthemum at low-temperature was analyzed using TMT (Tandem Mass Tag) labeling, sensitive immuno-precipitation, and high-resolution LC-MS/MS. The results showed that 2017 crotonylation sites were identified in 1199 proteins. Treatment at 4 degreesC for 24 h and - 4 degreesC for 4 h resulted in 393 upregulated proteins and 500 downregulated proteins (1.2-fold threshold and P < 0.05). Analysis of biological information showed that lysine crotonylation was involved in photosynthesis, ribosomes, and antioxidant systems. The crotonylated proteins and motifs in chrysanthemum were compared with other plants to obtain orthologous proteins and conserved motifs. To further understand how lysine crotonylation at K136 affected APX (ascorbate peroxidase), we performed a site-directed mutation at K136 in APX. Site-directed crotonylation showed that lysine decrotonylation at K136 reduced APX activity, and lysine complete crotonylation at K136 increased APX activity. CONCLUSION: In summary, our study comparatively analyzed proteome-wide and crotonylation in chrysanthemum under low-temperature stress and provided insights into the mechanisms of crotonylation in positively regulated APX activity to reduce the oxidative damage caused by low-temperature stress. These data provided an important basis for studying crotonylation to regulate antioxidant enzyme activity in response to low-temperature stress and a new research ideas for chilling-tolerance and freezing-tolerance chrysanthemum molecular breeding.
PXD020619	33450025	Another layer of complexity in Staphylococcus aureus methionine biosynthesis control: unusual RNase III-driven T-box riboswitch cleavage determines met operon mRNA stability and decay. 	Another layer of complexity in Staphylococcus aureus methionine biosynthesis control: Unusual RNase III-driven T-box riboswitch cleavage determines met operon mRNA stability and decay	RNA decay, Staphylococcus aureus, T-box riboswitch, methionine biosynthesis	In Staphylococcus aureus, de novo methionine biosynthesis is regulated by a unique hierarchical pathway involving stringent-response controlled CodY repression in combination with a T-box riboswitch and RNA decay. The T-box riboswitch residing in the 5' untranslated region (met leader RNA) of the S. aureus metICFE-mdh operon controls downstream gene transcription upon interaction with uncharged methionyl-tRNA. met leader and metICFE-mdh (m)RNAs undergo RNase-mediated degradation in a process whose molecular details are poorly understood. Here we determined the secondary structure of the met leader RNA and found the element to harbor, beyond other conserved T-box riboswitch structural features, a terminator helix which is target for RNase III endoribonucleolytic cleavage. As the terminator is a thermodynamically highly stable structure, it also forms posttranscriptionally in met leader/ metICFE-mdh read-through transcripts. Cleavage by RNase III releases the met leader from metICFE-mdh mRNA and initiates RNase J-mediated degradation of the mRNA from the 5'-end. Of note, metICFE-mdh mRNA stability varies over the length of the transcript with a longer lifespan towards the 3'-end. The obtained data suggest that coordinated RNA decay represents another checkpoint in a complex regulatory network that adjusts costly methionine biosynthesis to current metabolic requirements.
PXD016979	33450076	Identification of carbonylated proteins from monocytic cells under diabetes-induced stress conditions. 	Mass spectrometry based proteomic characterization of carbonylated proteins	Carbonylation, LC MS/MS, Mass spectrometer, Monocytic cells	Diabetes is a metabolic disorder characterized by the presence of elevated glucose in the blood and enhanced oxidative stress. It affects the cellular homeostasis that leads to the development of micro-and macro-vascular complications. Monocytes are the primary immune cells present in the circulatory system. Under high-glucose conditions, the cells undergo oxidative stress and secrete reactive oxygen species. The enhanced release of reactive species is known to modify biomolecules like proteins and nucleic acids. Protein carbonylation, one of the most harmful and irreversible protein modifications, is considered as a key player in the progression of diabetes and associated complications. Hence, the present study explores the identification of carbonylated proteins from the monocytes under diabetic stress and determination of their site of modification. Combined avidin affinity chromatography and bottom-up proteomics experiments identified 13 consistently expressed carbonylated proteins. Most of the identified proteins were reported to have altered functions under diabetic conditions that contribute to the development of diabetes-associated inflammation and complications. We were able to determine oxidative stress-induced modifications on Lys, Val, Ile, Cys, Thr and Asp residues.
PXD013918	33450210	Mitochondrial NAD(+) Controls Nuclear ARTD1-Induced ADP-Ribosylation. 	Mitochondrial ADP-ribosylation regulates NAD+-dependent genotoxic stress responses	ADP-ribosylation, U2OS, mitochondria, muscle	In addition to its role as an electron transporter, mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) is an important co-factor for enzymatic reactions, including ADP-ribosylation. Although mitochondria harbor the most intra-cellular NAD(+), mitochondrial ADP-ribosylation remains poorly understood. Here we provide evidence for mitochondrial ADP-ribosylation, which was identified using various methodologies including immunofluorescence, western blot, and mass spectrometry. We show that mitochondrial ADP-ribosylation reversibly increases in response to respiratory chain inhibition. Conversely, H2O2-induced oxidative stress reciprocally induces nuclear and reduces mitochondrial ADP-ribosylation. Elevated mitochondrial ADP-ribosylation, in turn, dampens H2O2-triggered nuclear ADP-ribosylation and increases MMS-induced ARTD1 chromatin retention. Interestingly, co-treatment of cells with the mitochondrial uncoupler FCCP decreases PARP inhibitor efficacy. Together, our results suggest that mitochondrial ADP-ribosylation is a dynamic cellular process that impacts nuclear ADP-ribosylation and provide evidence for a NAD(+)-mediated mitochondrial-nuclear crosstalk.
PXD018220	33450211	Proteome dynamics at broken replication forks reveal a distinct ATM-directed repair response suppressing DNA double-strand break ubiquitination. 	Analysis of histone PTMs in nascent chromatin in new and old histones upon DNA damage (CAL353, CAL358) using the NCC-SILAC approach	Histone PTMs, NCC, SILAC, camptothecin, replication	Cells have evolved an elaborate DNA repair network to ensure complete and accurate DNA replication. Defects in these repair machineries can fuel genome instability and drive carcinogenesis while creating vulnerabilities that may be exploited in therapy. Here, we use nascent chromatin capture (NCC) proteomics to characterize the repair of replication-associated DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) triggered by topoisomerase 1 (TOP1) inhibitors. We reveal profound changes in the fork proteome, including the chromatin environment and nuclear membrane interactions, and identify three classes of repair factors according to their enrichment at broken and/or stalled forks. ATM inhibition dramatically rewired the broken fork proteome, revealing that ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) signalling stimulates DNA end resection, recruits PLK1, and concomitantly suppresses the canonical DSB ubiquitination response by preventing accumulation of RNF168 and BRCA1-A. This work and collection of replication fork proteomes provide a new framework to understand how cells orchestrate homologous recombination repair of replication-associated DSBs.
PXD019772	33450407	Tissue-specific proteome characterization of avocado seed during postharvest shelf life. 	Proteomic study of avocado seed tissues (testa, cotyledon, and embryo) during postharvest shelf life	SPS-MS3, Seed, TMT, postharvest	Avocado is a nutritious and economically important fruit, generating significant income for exporter countries. Recently, by-products of this fruit such as seeds and peels, have raised interest in different industries. However, the biochemical features of the nutraceutical value of these tissues have not been analyzed using molecular approaches during the postharvest shelf life (PSL). We carried out comparative proteomics using tandem mass tagging (TMT) and synchronous-precursor selection (SPS)-MS(3). We analyzed testa, cotyledon, and embryo axes from avocado seeds at detachment from the tree (unripe), and after five (breaker) and ten days (ripe) of PSL. We identified 1968 proteins, from which 933 were specific to the testa, 167 to the embryo axis, and 23 to the cotyledon. The testa had a more dynamic proteome than the other tissues, resembling similar stress responses to those observed in peel tissues, such as down-accumulation of translational machinery, cell wall catabolism and synthesis of secondary metabolites. In contrast, the up-accumulation of the biosynthesis of l-glutamine, L-isoleucine, and l-serine was observed in all tissues. Our study provides the basic biochemical and physiological features of avocado seed during PSL and demonstrates that avocado seed tissues could potentially be used as a costless source of high-value compounds. SIGNIFICANCE: Avocado seed as a fruit by-product is a source of different valuable molecules, including those with nutraceutical properties. During PSL, several biochemical and physiological modifications occur in this dispersal unit, which also includes the alteration of several key metabolites' content. However, the proteome profile associated with different metabolic pathways that regulate the inner content of seed metabolites has not been previously studied. Our tissue-specific proteomics TMT-SPS-MS(3)-based provides the first evidence of molecular and physiological changes in avocado tissues during PSL delivering fundamental knowledge of this organ. In this vein, the modulation of secondary metabolites, amino acid, and sugar metabolism of avocado tissues during PLS can encourage these by-products exploitation in multiple industries.
PXD021199	33452816	The endolysosomal adaptor PLEKHM1 is a direct target for both mTOR and MAPK pathways. 	PLEKHM1 is a direct target for both mTOR and MAPK pathways	GFP-Trap pull-down, SILAC, autophagy, phosphorylation	The lysosome is a cellular signalling hub at the point of convergence of endocytic and autophagic pathways, where the contents are degraded and recycled. Pleckstrin homology domain-containing family member 1 (PLEKHM1) acts as an adaptor to facilitate the fusion of endocytic and autophagic vesicles with the lysosome. However, it is unclear how PLEKHM1 function at the lysosome is controlled. Herein, we show that PLEKHM1 coprecipitates with, and is directly phosphorylated by, mTOR. Using a phosphospecific antibody against Ser432/S435 of PLEKHM1, we show that the same motif is a direct target for ERK2-mediated phosphorylation in a growth factor-dependent manner. This dual regulation of PLEKHM1 at a highly conserved region points to a convergence of both growth factor- and amino acid-sensing pathways, placing PLEKHM1 at a critical juncture of cellular metabolism.
PXD020614	33460454	The immunopeptidomes of two transmissible cancers and their host have a common, dominant peptide motif. 	Passage of transmissible cancers in the Tasmanian devil is due to a dominant, shared peptide motif and a limited repertoire of MHC-I allotypes	MHC, Tasmanian devil, Transmissible cancer, contagious cancer, immunopeptidome, marsupial	Transmissible cancers are malignant cells that can spread between individuals of a population, akin to both a parasite and a mobile graft. The survival of the Tasmanian devil, the largest remaining marsupial carnivore, is threatened by the remarkable emergence of two independent lineages of transmissible cancer, devil facial tumour (DFT) 1 and devil facial tumour 2 (DFT2). To aid the development of a vaccine and to interrogate how histocompatibility barriers can be overcome, we analysed the peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules from Tasmanian devil cells and representative cell lines of each transmissible cancer. Here, we show that DFT1 + IFN-gamma and DFT2 cell lines express a restricted repertoire of MHC-I allotypes compared with fibroblast cells, potentially reducing the breadth of peptide presentation. Comparison of the peptidomes from DFT1 + IFNgamma, DFT2 and host fibroblast cells demonstrates a dominant motif, despite differences in MHC-I allotypes between the cell lines, with preference for a hydrophobic leucine residue at position 3 and position Omega of peptides. DFT1 and DFT2 both present peptides derived from neural proteins, which reflects a shared cellular origin that could be exploited for vaccine design. These results suggest that polymorphisms in MHC-I molecules between tumours and host can be 'hidden' by a common peptide motif, providing the potential for permissive passage of infectious cells and demonstrating complexity in mammalian histocompatibility barriers.
PXD013638	33460477	Proteomic profile of pre-implantational ovine embryos produced in vivo. 	Ovine embryo - descriptive analysis	descriptive, embryo, ovine	The present study was conducted to decipher the proteome of in vivo-produced pre-implantation ovine embryos. Ten locally adapted Morana Nova ewes received hormonal treatment and were inseminated 12 hr after ovulation. Six days later, 54 embryos (morula and blastocyst developmental state) were recovered from eight ewes and pooled to obtain sufficient protein for proteomic analysis. Extracted embryo proteins were analysed by LC-MS/MS, followed by identification based on four database searches (PEAKS, Proteome Discoverer software, SearchGUI software, PepExplorer). Identified proteins were analysed for gene ontology terms, protein clusters and interactions. Genes associated with the ovine embryo proteome were screened for miRNA targets using data sets of TargetScan (http://www.targetscan.org) and mIRBase (http://www.mirbase.org) servers. There were 667 proteins identified in the ovine embryos. Biological processes of such proteins were mainly related to cellular process and regulation, and molecular functions, to binding and catalytic activity. Analysis of the embryo proteins revealed 49 enriched functional clusters, linked to energy metabolism (TCA cycle, pyruvate and glycolysis metabolism), zona pellucida (ZP), MAPK signalling pathway, tight junction, binding of sperm to ZP, translation, proteasome, cell cycle and calcium/phospholipid binding. Sixteen miRNAs were related to 25 pre-implantation ovine embryo genes, all conserved in human, bovine and ovine species. The interaction network generated by miRNet showed four key miRNAs (hsa-mir-106b-5p; hsa-mir-30-5p; hsa-mir-103a-5p and hsa-mir-106a-5p) with potential interactions with embryo-expressed genes. Functional analysis of the network indicated that miRNAs modulate genes related to cell cycle, regulation of stem cell and embryonic cell differentiation, among others. Retrieved miRNAs also modulate the expression of genes involved in cell signalling pathways, such as MAPK, Wnt, TGF-beta, p53 and Toll-like receptor. The current study describes the first major proteomic profile of 6-day-old ovine embryos produced in vivo, setting a comprehensive foundation for our understanding of embryo physiology in the ovine species.
PXD017034	33460768	Redox sensor NPGPx restrains ZAP70 activity and modulates T cell homeostasis. 	Identification of the intermolecular disulfide bonds between NPGPx and ZAP70	NPGPx, ZAP70, disulfide bond	Emerging evidences implicate the contribution of ROS to T cell activation and signaling. The tyrosine kinase, zeta-chain-associated protein of 70 kDa (ZAP70), is essential for T cell development and activation. However, it remains elusive whether a direct redox regulation affects ZAP70 activity upon TCR stimulation. Here, we show that deficiency of non-selenocysteine containing phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (NPGPx), a redox sensor, results in T cell hyperproliferation and elevated cytokine productions. T cell-specific NPGPx-knockout mice reveal enhanced T-dependent humoral responses and are susceptible to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Through proteomic approaches, ZAP70 is identified as the key interacting protein of NPGPx through disulfide bonding. NPGPx is activated by ROS generated from TCR stimulation, and modulates ZAP70 activity through redox switching to reduce ZAP70 recruitment to TCR/CD3 complex in membrane lipid raft, therefore subduing TCR responses. These results reveal a delicate redox mechanism that NPGPx serves as a modulator to curb ZAP70 functions in maintaining T cell homeostasis.
PXD015074	33461384	Autophagy activation, lipotoxicity and lysosomal membrane permeabilization synergize to promote pimozide- and loperamide-induced glioma cell death. 	human glioma cell-line proteomics upon treatment with different drugs	Qexactive HF, TMT10, glioma	Increasing evidence suggests that induction of lethal macroautophagy/autophagy carries potential significance for the treatment of glioblastoma (GBM). In continuation of previous work, we demonstrate that pimozide and loperamide trigger an ATG5- and ATG7 (autophagy related 5 and 7)-dependent type of cell death that is significantly reduced with cathepsin inhibitors and the lipid reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger alpha-tocopherol in MZ-54 GBM cells. Global proteomic analysis after treatment with both drugs also revealed an increase of proteins related to lipid and cholesterol metabolic processes. These changes were accompanied by a massive accumulation of cholesterol and other lipids in the lysosomal compartment, indicative of impaired lipid transport/degradation. In line with these observations, pimozide and loperamide treatment were associated with a pronounced increase of bioactive sphingolipids including ceramides, glucosylceramides and sphingoid bases measured by targeted lipidomic analysis. Furthermore, pimozide and loperamide inhibited the activity of SMPD1/ASM (sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1) and promoted induction of lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP), as well as release of CTSB (cathepsin B) into the cytosol in MZ-54 wild-type (WT) cells. Whereas LMP and cell death were significantly attenuated in ATG5 and ATG7 knockout (KO) cells, both events were enhanced by depletion of the lysophagy receptor VCP (valosin containing protein), supporting a pro-survival function of lysophagy under these conditions. Collectively, our data suggest that pimozide and loperamide-driven autophagy and lipotoxicity synergize to induce LMP and cell death. The results also support the notion that simultaneous overactivation of autophagy and induction of LMP represents a promising approach for the treatment of GBM.Abbreviations: ACD: autophagic cell death; AKT1: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATG14: autophagy related 14; CERS1: ceramide synthase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CYBB/NOX2: cytochrome b-245 beta chain; ER: endoplasmatic reticulum; FBS: fetal bovine serum; GBM: glioblastoma; GO: gene ontology; HTR7/5-HT7: 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 7; KD: knockdown; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LAP: LC3-associated phagocytosis; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; RB1CC1: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RPS6: ribosomal protein S6; SMPD1/ASM: sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; WT: wild-type.
PXD022860	33462515	Tetracyclines promote survival and fitness in mitochondrial disease models. 	Proteomic analysis of whole brains from Ndufs4-/- mice treated with doxycycline	Mitochondrial disease, Mitochondrial translation, Mouse brain, Tetracycline	Mitochondrial diseases (MDs) are a heterogeneous group of disorders resulting from mutations in nuclear or mitochondrial DNA genes encoding mitochondrial proteins(1,2). MDs cause pathologies with severe tissue damage and ultimately death(3,4). There are no cures for MDs and current treatments are only palliative(5-7). Here we show that tetracyclines improve fitness of cultured MD cells and ameliorate disease in a mouse model of Leigh syndrome. To identify small molecules that prevent cellular damage and death under nutrient stress conditions, we conduct a chemical high-throughput screen with cells carrying human MD mutations and discover a series of antibiotics that maintain survival of various MD cells. We subsequently show that a sub-library of tetracycline analogues, including doxycycline, rescues cell death and inflammatory signatures in mutant cells through partial and selective inhibition of mitochondrial translation, resulting in an ATF4-independent mitohormetic response. Doxycycline treatment strongly promotes fitness and survival of Ndufs4(-/-) mice, a preclinical Leigh syndrome mouse model(8). A proteomic analysis of brain tissue reveals that doxycycline treatment largely prevents neuronal death and the accumulation of neuroimmune and inflammatory proteins in Ndufs4(-/-) mice, indicating a potential causal role for these proteins in the brain pathology. Our findings suggest that tetracyclines deserve further evaluation as potential drugs for the treatment of MDs.
PXD019737	33463038	Regulation of the microsomal proteome by salicylic acid and deficiency of phosphatidylinositol-4-kinases beta1 and beta2 in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Regulation of the microsomal proteome by salicylic acid and deficiency of phosphatidylinositol4kinases beta1 and beta2 in Arabidopsis thaliana	label-free quantification, microsomal fraction, phosphatidylinositol-4-kinases beta1 and beta2, salicylic acid	Phosphatidylinositol-4-kinases beta1 and beta2 (PI4Kbeta1/PI4Kbeta2), which are responsible for phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol to phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate, have important roles in plant vesicular trafficking. Moreover, PI4Kbeta1/PI4Kbeta2 negatively regulates biosynthesis of phytohormone salicylic acid (SA), a key player in plant immune responses. The study focused on the effect of PI4Kbeta1/PI4Kbeta2 deficiency and SA level on the proteome of microsomal fraction. For that purpose we used four Arabidopsis thaliana genotypes: wild type; double mutant with impaired function of PI4Kbeta1/PI4Kbeta2 (pi4kbeta1/pi4kbeta2) exhibiting high SA level; sid2 mutant with impaired SA biosynthesis depending on the isochorismate synthase 1 and triple mutant sid2/pi4kbeta1/pi4kbeta2. We identified 1797 proteins whose levels were changed between genotypes. We showed that increased SA concentration affected the levels of 473 proteins. This includes typical SA pathway markers but also points to connections between SA pathway and clathrin-independent endocytosis (flotillins) and exocytosis/protein secretion (syntaxins, tetraspanin) to be investigated in future. In contrast to SA, the absence of PI4Kbeta1/PI4Kbeta2 itself affected only 27 proteins. Among them we identified CERK1, a receptor for chitin. Although PI4Kbeta1/PI4Kbeta2 deficiency itself did not have a substantial impact on the proteome of the microsomal fraction, our data clearly show that it enhances proteome changes when SA pathway is modulated in parallel.
PXD021850	33463523	Atomic structures of respiratory complex III2, complex IV, and supercomplex III2-IV from vascular plants. 	Atomic structures of respiratory complex III2 complex IV and supercomplex III2-IV from vascular plants	respiratory complex	Mitochondrial complex III (CIII2) and complex IV (CIV), which can associate into a higher-order supercomplex (SC III2+IV), play key roles in respiration. However, structures of these plant complexes remain unknown. We present atomic models of CIII2, CIV, and SC III2+IV from Vigna radiata determined by single-particle cryoEM. The structures reveal plant-specific differences in the MPP domain of CIII2 and define the subunit composition of CIV. Conformational heterogeneity analysis of CIII2 revealed long-range, coordinated movements across the complex, as well as the motion of CIII2's iron-sulfur head domain. The CIV structure suggests that, in plants, proton translocation does not occur via the H channel. The supercomplex interface differs significantly from that in yeast and bacteria in its interacting subunits, angle of approach and limited interactions in the mitochondrial matrix. These structures challenge long-standing assumptions about the plant complexes and generate new mechanistic hypotheses.
PXD015766	33463537	ER-to-Golgi transport and SEC23-dependent COPII vesicles regulate T cell alloimmunity. 	SEC23B-dependent COPII Vesicles Regulate T Cell Immunity	Lymphocytes	T cell-mediated responses are dependent on their secretion of key effector molecules. However, the critical molecular determinants of the secretion of these proteins are largely undefined. Here, we demonstrate that T cell activation increases trafficking via the ER-to-Golgi pathway. To study the functional role of this pathway, we generated mice with a T cell-specific deletion in SEC23B, a core subunit of coat protein complex II (COPII). We found that SEC23B critically regulated the T cell secretome following activation. SEC23B-deficient T cells exhibited a proliferative defect and reduced effector functions in vitro, as well as in experimental models of allogeneic and xenogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation in vivo. However, T cells derived from 3 patients with congenital dyserythropoietic anemia II (CDAII), which results from Sec23b mutation, did not exhibit a similar phenotype. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that unlike murine KO T cells, T cells from patients with CDAII harbor increased levels of the closely related paralog, SEC23A. In vivo rescue of murine KO by expression of Sec23a from the Sec23b genomic locus restored T cell functions. Together, our data demonstrate a critical role for the COPII pathway, with evidence for functional overlap in vivo between SEC23 paralogs in the regulation of T cell immunity in both mice and humans.
PXD023200	33463871	Competition for electrons favours N2 O reduction in denitrifying Bradyrhizobium isolates. 	Competition for electrons favors N2O reduction in denitrifying Bradyrhizobium isolates	Bradyrhizobium, Denitrification	Bradyrhizobia are common members of soil microbiomes and known as N2 -fixing symbionts of economically important legumes. Many are also denitrifiers, which can act as sinks or sources for N2 O. Inoculation with compatible rhizobia is often needed for optimal N2 -fixation, but the choice of inoculant may have consequences for N2 O emission. Here, we determined the phylogeny and denitrification capacity of Bradyrhizobium strains, most of them isolated from peanut-nodules. Analyses of genomes and denitrification end-points showed that all were denitrifiers, but only ~1/3 could reduce N2 O. The N2 O-reducing isolates had strong preference for N2 O- over NO3 (-) -reduction. Such preference was also observed in a study of other bradyrhizobia and tentatively ascribed to competition between the electron pathways to Nap (periplasmic NO3 (-) reductase) and Nos (N2 O reductase). Another possible explanation is lower abundance of Nap than Nos. Here, proteomics revealed that Nap was instead more abundant than Nos, supporting the hypothesis that the electron pathway to Nos outcompetes that to Nap. In contrast, Paracoccus denitrificans, which has membrane-bond NO3 (-) reductase (Nar), reduced N2 O and NO3 (-) simultaneously. We propose that the control at the metabolic level, favouring N2 O reduction over NO3 (-) reduction, applies also to other denitrifiers carrying Nos and Nap but lacking Nar.
PXD021548	33465056	Impaired complex I repair causes recessive Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy. 	Protein turnover rates within mitochondrial complexes in mitochondrial disease patients and in a DNAJC30 knock-out cell line	complex I assembly, complex I maintenance, complexome profiling, oxidative phosphorylation system, protein turnover	Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is the most frequent mitochondrial disease and was the first to be genetically defined by a point mutation in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). A molecular diagnosis is achieved in up to 95% of cases, the vast majority of which are accounted for by 3 mutations within mitochondrial complex I subunit-encoding genes in the mtDNA (mtLHON). Here, we resolve the enigma of LHON in the absence of pathogenic mtDNA mutations. We describe biallelic mutations in a nuclear encoded gene, DNAJC30, in 33 unsolved patients from 29 families and establish an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance for LHON (arLHON), which to date has been a prime example of a maternally inherited disorder. Remarkably, all hallmarks of mtLHON were recapitulated, including incomplete penetrance, male predominance, and significant idebenone responsivity. Moreover, by tracking protein turnover in patient-derived cell lines and a DNAJC30-knockout cellular model, we measured reduced turnover of specific complex I N-module subunits and a resultant impairment of complex I function. These results demonstrate that DNAJC30 is a chaperone protein needed for the efficient exchange of complex I subunits exposed to reactive oxygen species and integral to a mitochondrial complex I repair mechanism, thereby providing the first example to our knowledge of a disease resulting from impaired exchange of assembled respiratory chain subunits.
PXD020617	33467719	Eicosanoid Content in Fetal Calf Serum Accounts for Reproducibility Challenges in Cell Culture. 	Addressing reproducibility challenges in cell culture: the impact of oxylipins contained in fetal calf serum	cell metabolism, eicosanoids, macrophages, reproducibility issues	Reproducibility issues regarding in vitro cell culture experiments are related to genetic fluctuations and batch-wise variations of biological materials such as fetal calf serum (FCS). Genome sequencing may control the former, while the latter may remain unrecognized. Using a U937 macrophage model for cell differentiation and inflammation, we investigated whether the formation of effector molecules was dependent on the FCS batch used for cultivation. High resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS) was used to identify FCS constituents and to explore their effects on cultured cells evaluating secreted cytokines, eicosanoids, and other inflammatory mediators. Remarkably, the FCS eicosanoid composition showed more batch-dependent variations than the protein composition. Efficient uptake of fatty acids from the medium by U937 macrophages and inflammation-induced release thereof was evidenced using C13-labelled arachidonic acid, highlighting rapid lipid metabolism. For functional testing, FCS batch-dependent nanomolar concentration differences of two selected eicosanoids, 5-HETE and 15-HETE, were balanced out by spiking. Culturing U937 cells at these defined conditions indeed resulted in significant proteome alterations indicating HETE-induced PPARgamma activation, independently corroborated by HETE-induced formation of peroxisomes observed by high-resolution microscopy. In conclusion, the present data demonstrate that FCS-contained eicosanoids, subject to substantial batch-wise variation, may modulate cellular effector functions in cell culture experiments.
PXD017904	33467856	Use of Hybrid Data-Dependent and -Independent Acquisition Spectral Libraries Empowers Dual-Proteome Profiling. 	Data-dependent and independent acquisition of complex human-Salmonella mixed proteomes	Salmonella, data-dependent acquisition (DDA), data-independent acquisition (DIA), spectral library	In the context of bacterial infections, it is imperative that physiological responses can be studied in an integrated manner, meaning a simultaneous analysis of both the host and the pathogen responses. To improve the sensitivity of detection, data-independent acquisition (DIA)-based proteomics was found to outperform data-dependent acquisition (DDA) workflows in identifying and quantifying low-abundant proteins. Here, by making use of representative bacterial pathogen/host proteome samples, we report an optimized hybrid library generation workflow for DIA mass spectrometry relying on the use of data-dependent and in silico-predicted spectral libraries. When compared to searching DDA experiment-specific libraries only, the use of hybrid libraries significantly improved peptide detection to an extent suggesting that infection-relevant host-pathogen conditions could be profiled in sufficient depth without the need of a priori bacterial pathogen enrichment when studying the bacterial proteome. Proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifiers PXD017904 and PXD017945.
PXD017593	33468046	Comparative proteomic analysis of Nicotiana benthamiana plants under Chinese wheat mosaic virus infection. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of Nicotiana benthamiana plants under CWMV infection	label-free CWMV Nicotiana benthamiana  plant	BACKGROUND: Chinese wheat mosaic virus (CWMV) is a severe threat to winter wheat and is transmitted by Polymyxa graminis. The mechanisms of interactions between CWMV and plants are poorly understood. In this study, a comparative proteomics analysis based on nanoliquid chromatography mass spectrometry (MS)/MS was conducted to characterize proteomic changes in plants responding to CWMV infection. RESULTS: In total, 2751 host proteins were identified, 1496 of which were quantified and 146 up-regulated and 244 down-regulated proteins were identified as differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed that DEPs were most strongly associated with photosynthesis antenna proteins, MAPK signaling plant and glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism pathways. Subcellular localization analysis predicted that more than half of the DEPs were localized in the chloroplast, an organelle indispensable for abscisic acid (ABA) synthesis. Our results suggest that CWMV infection interrupts normal chloroplast functions and decreases ABA concentrations in Nicotiana benthamiana. Further analysis showed that the ABA pathway was suppressed during CWMV infection and that ABA treatment induced plant hosts defenses against CWMV. CONCLUSIONS: We identified several candidate proteins expressed during CWMV infection, and the ABA pathway was strongly associated with responses to CWMV infection in N. benthamiana.
PXD019236	33468223	Protein regulation strategies of the mouse spleen in response to Babesia microti infection. 	Global protein data of proteomics of spleen infected by Babesia microti	Babesia microti, immunity, phosphorylation, quantitative proteomics, spleen	BACKGROUND: Babesia is a protozoan parasite that infects red blood cells in some vertebrates. Some species of Babesia can induce zoonoses and cause considerable harm. As the largest immune organ in mammals, the spleen plays an important role in defending against Babesia infection. When infected with Babesia, the spleen is seriously injured but still actively initiates immunomodulatory responses. METHODS: To explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the immune regulation and self-repair of the spleen in response to infection, this study used data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative proteomics to analyse changes in expression levels of global proteins and in phosphorylation modification in spleen tissue after Babesia microti infection in mice. RESULTS: After mice were infected with B. microti, their spleens were seriously damaged. Using bioinformatics methods to analyse dynamic changes in a large number of proteins, we found that the spleen still initiated immune responses to combat the infection, with immune-related proteins playing an important role, including cathepsin D (CTSD), interferon-induced protein 44 (IFI44), interleukin-2 enhancer-binding factor 2 (ILF2), interleukin enhancer-binding factor 3 (ILF3) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5A (STAT5A). In addition, some proteins related to iron metabolism were also involved in the repair of the spleen after B. microti infection, including serotransferrin, lactoferrin, transferrin receptor protein 1 (TfR1) and glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL). At the same time, the expression and phosphorylation of proteins related to the growth and development of the spleen also changed, including protein kinase C-delta (PKC-delta), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) 3/1, growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2) and P21-activated kinase 2 (PAK2). CONCLUSIONS: Immune-related proteins, iron metabolism-related proteins and growth and development-related proteins play an important role in the regulation of spleen injury and maintenance of homeostasis. This study provides an important basis for the diagnosis and treatment of babesiosis.
PXD019043	33469029	Rab1-AMPylation by Legionella DrrA is allosterically activated by Rab1. 	Rab1b-AMPylation by Legionella DrrA is allosterically activated by Rab1	DrrA, Legionella, Rab, crosslink	Legionella pneumophila infects eukaryotic cells by forming a replicative organelle - the Legionella containing vacuole. During this process, the bacterial protein DrrA/SidM is secreted and manipulates the activity and post-translational modification (PTM) states of the vesicular trafficking regulator Rab1. As a result, Rab1 is modified with an adenosine monophosphate (AMP), and this process is referred to as AMPylation. Here, we use a chemical approach to stabilise low-affinity Rab:DrrA complexes in a site-specific manner to gain insight into the molecular basis of the interaction between the Rab protein and the AMPylation domain of DrrA. The crystal structure of the Rab:DrrA complex reveals a previously unknown non-conventional Rab-binding site (NC-RBS). Biochemical characterisation demonstrates allosteric stimulation of the AMPylation activity of DrrA via Rab binding to the NC-RBS. We speculate that allosteric control of DrrA could in principle prevent random and potentially cytotoxic AMPylation in the host, thereby perhaps ensuring efficient infection by Legionella.
PXD022512	33469081	Potential biomarkers of childhood brain tumor identified by proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid from extraventricular drainage (EVD). 	POTENTIAL BIOMARKERS OF CHILDHOOD BRAIN TUMOR IDENTIFIED BY PROTEOMICS OF CEREBROSPINAL FLUID FROM  EXTRAVENTRICULAR DRAINAGE (EVD)	biomarker, cerebrospinal fluid, extraventricular drainage, pediatric central nervous system tumors.	Brain tumors are the most common solid tumors in childhood. There is the need for biomarkers of residual disease, therapy response and recurrence. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a source of brain tumor biomarkers. We analyzed the proteome of waste CSF from extraventricular drainage (EVD) from 29 children bearing different brain tumors and 17 controls needing EVD insertion for unrelated causes. 1598 and 1526 proteins were identified by liquid chromatography-coupled tandem mass spectrometry proteomics in CSF control and brain tumor patients, respectively, 263 and 191 proteins being exclusive of either condition. Bioinformatic analysis revealed promising protein biomarkers for the discrimination between control and tumor (TATA-binding protein-associated factor 15 and S100 protein B). Moreover, Thymosin beta-4 (TMSB4X) and CD109, and 14.3.3 and HSP90 alpha could discriminate among other brain tumors and low-grade gliomas plus glyoneuronal tumors/pilocytic astrocytoma, or embryonal tumors/medulloblastoma. Biomarkers were validated by ELISA assay. Our method was able to distinguish among brain tumor vs non-tumor/hemorrhagic conditions (controls) and to differentiate two large classes of brain tumors. Further prospective studies may assess whether the biomarkers proposed by our discovery approach can be identified in other bodily fluids, therefore less invasively, and are useful to guide therapy and predict recurrences.
PXD022990	33469569	Synthetic Siglec-9 Agonists Inhibit Neutrophil Activation Associated with COVID-19. 	Synthetic Siglec-9 agonists inhibit neutrophil activation associated with COVID-19	COVID-19, NETosis, Neutrophil, ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2, Siglec	Severe cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by infection with SARS-Cov-2, are characterized by a hyperinflammatory immune response that leads to numerous complications. Production of proinflammatory neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) has been suggested to be a key factor in inducing a hyperinflammatory signaling cascade, allegedly causing both pulmonary tissue damage and peripheral inflammation. Accordingly, therapeutic blockage of neutrophil activation and NETosis, the cell death pathway accompanying NET formation, could limit respiratory damage and death from severe COVID-19. Here, we demonstrate that synthetic glycopolymers that activate the neutrophil checkpoint receptor Siglec-9 suppress NETosis induced by agonists of viral toll-like receptors (TLRs) and plasma from patients with severe COVID-19. Thus, Siglec-9 agonism is a promising therapeutic strategy to curb neutrophilic hyperinflammation in COVID-19.<br>.
PXD022279	33470097	Multiplexed CuAAC Suzuki-Miyaura Labeling for Tandem Activity-Based Chemoproteomic Profiling. 	Multiplexed CuAAC-Suzuki-Miyaura for tandem activity-based chemoproteomic profiling	SP3 cleanup, Suzuki-Miyauara cross-coupling, multiplexed CuAAC Suzuki-Miyaura chemoproteomics	Mass-spectrometry-based chemoproteomics has enabled the rapid and proteome-wide discovery of functional and potentially 'druggable' hotspots in proteins. While numerous transformations are now available, chemoproteomic studies still rely overwhelmingly on copper(I)-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition (CuAAC) or 'click' chemistry. The absence of bio-orthogonal chemistries that are functionally equivalent and complementary to CuAAC for chemoproteomic applications has hindered the development of multiplexed chemoproteomic platforms capable of assaying multiple amino acid side chains in parallel. Here, we identify and optimize Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling conditions for activity-based protein profiling and mass-spectrometry-based chemoproteomics, including for target deconvolution and labeling site identification. Uniquely enabled by the observed orthogonality of palladium-catalyzed cross-coupling and CuAAC, we combine both reactions to achieve dual labeling. Multiplexed targeted deconvolution identified the protein targets of bifunctional cysteine- and lysine-reactive probes.
PXD022469	33471535	Extending the Depth of Human Plasma Proteome Coverage Using Simple Fractionation Techniques. 	Proteome-wide evaluation of plasma depletion methods vis--vis fractionation techniques	Plasma, biomarkers, chromatography, electrophoresis, label-free quantitation, prefractionation techniques	Human plasma is one of the most widely used tissues in clinical analysis, and plasma-based biomarkers are used for monitoring patient health status and/or response to medical treatment to avoid unnecessary invasive biopsy. Data-driven plasma proteomics has suffered from a lack of throughput and detection sensitivity, largely due to the complexity of the plasma proteome and in particular the enormous quantitative dynamic range, estimated to be between 9 and 13 orders of magnitude between the lowest and the highest abundance protein. A major challenge is to identify workflows that can achieve depth of plasma proteome coverage while minimizing the complexity of the sample workup and maximizing the sample throughput. In this study, we have performed intensive depletion of high-abundant plasma proteins or enrichment of low-abundant proteins using the Agilent multiple affinity removal liquid chromatography (LC) column-Human 6 (Hu6), the Agilent multiple affinity removal LC column-Human 14 (Hu14), and ProteoMiner followed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS PAGE) and C18 prefractionation techniques. We compared the performance of each of these fractionation approaches to identify the method that satisfies requirements for analysis of clinical samples and to include good plasma proteome coverage in combination with reasonable sample output. In this study, we report that one-dimensional (1D) gel-based prefractionation allows parallel sample processing and no loss of proteome coverage, compared with serial chromatographic separation, and significantly accelerates analysis time, particularly important for large clinical projects. Furthermore, we show that a variety of methodologies can achieve similarly high plasma proteome coverage, allowing flexibility in method selection based on project-specific needs. These considerations are important in the effort to accelerate plasma proteomics research so as to provide efficient, reliable, and accurate diagnoses, population-based health screening, clinical research studies, and other clinical work.
PXD019209	33472061	Impact of WIN site inhibitor on the WDR5 interactome. 	WDR5 protein interactions at the WIN-site	SILAC, WDR5, chromatin, immunoprecipitation, signaling	The chromatin-associated protein WDR5 is a promising pharmacological target in cancer, with most drug discovery efforts directed against an arginine-binding cavity in WDR5 called the WIN site. Despite a clear expectation that WIN site inhibitors will alter the repertoire of WDR5 interaction partners, their impact on the WDR5 interactome remains unknown. Here, we use quantitative proteomics to delineate how the WDR5 interactome is changed by WIN site inhibition. We show that the WIN site inhibitor alters the interaction of WDR5 with dozens of proteins, including those linked to phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling. As proof of concept, we demonstrate that the master kinase PDPK1 is a bona fide high-affinity WIN site binding protein that engages WDR5 to modulate transcription of genes expressed in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. This dataset expands our understanding of WDR5 and serves as a resource for deciphering the action of WIN site inhibitors.
PXD022812	33472076	Proteome-wide identification of NEDD8 modification sites reveals distinct proteomes for canonical and atypical NEDDylation. 	Proteome-wide identification of NEDD8 modification sites reveals distinct proteomes for canonical and atypical NEDDylation	NEDD8, NEDD8 polymers, SUMO-2, diGly remnants, nucleolus-related inclusions	The ubiquitin-like molecule NEDD8 controls several biological processes and is a promising target for therapeutic intervention. NEDDylation occurs through specific NEDD8 enzymes (canonical) or enzymes of the ubiquitin system (atypical). Identification of NEDD8 sites on substrates is critical for delineating the processes controlled by NEDDylation. By combining the use of the NEDD8 R74K mutant with anti-di-glycine (anti-diGly) antibodies, we identified 1,101 unique NEDDylation sites in 620 proteins. Bioinformatics analysis reveals that canonical and atypical NEDDylation have distinct proteomes; the spliceosome/mRNA surveillance/DNA replication and ribosome/proteasome, respectively. The data also reveal the formation of poly-NEDD8, hybrid NEDD8-ubiquitin, and NEDD8-SUMO-2 chains as potential molecular signals. In particular, NEDD8-SUMO-2 chains are induced upon proteotoxic stress (atypical) through NEDDylation of K11 in SUMO-2, and conjugates accumulate in previously described nucleolus-related inclusions. The study uncovers a diverse proteome for NEDDylation and is consistent with the concept of extensive cross-talk between ubiquitin and Ubls under proteotoxic stress conditions.
PXD023002	33472079	The mitochondrial protein ERAL1 suppresses RNA virus infection by facilitating RIG-I-like receptor signaling. 	The mitochondrial protein ERAL1 suppresses RNA virus infection by facilitating RIG-I-like receptor signaling	MAVS mitochondrion	Mitochondria not only serve as a platform for innate immune signaling transduction but also enhance immune responses by releasing mitochondrial DNA and RNA into the cytoplasm. However, whether mitochondrial matrix proteins could be liberated and involved in immune responses remains enigmatic. Here, we identify the mitochondrial protein ERA G-protein-like 1 (ERAL1) as a mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS)-interacting protein by using proximity-based labeling technology. ERAL1 deficiency markedly reduces the downstream antiviral signaling triggered by RNA viruses. Moreover, ERAL1-deficient mice are more susceptible to lethality following RNA virus infection than wild-type mice. After virus infection, ERAL1 is released from mitochondria through the BAX/BAK pore. The cytosolic ERAL1 facilitates lysine 63 (K63)-linked ubiquitination of retinoicacid inducible gene-1 (RIG-I)/melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) and promotes downstream MAVS polymerization, thus positively regulating antiviral responses.
PXD022104	33472082	The ER-embedded UBE2J1/RNF26 ubiquitylation complex exerts spatiotemporal control over the endolysosomal pathway. 	The ER-embedded UBE2J1/RNF26 ubiquitylation complex in spatio-temporal control of the endolysosomal pathwayThe ER-embedded UBE2J1/RNF26 ubiquitylation complex in spatio-temporal control of the endolysosomal pathway	EGFR, RNF26, UBE2J1, endoplasmic reticulum, endosomes, ubiquitin	The endolysosomal system fulfills a wide variety of cellular functions, many of which are modulated through interactions with other organelles. In particular, the ER exerts spatiotemporal constraints on the organization and motility of endosomes and lysosomes. We have recently described the ER transmembrane E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF26 as a regulator of endolysosomal perinuclear positioning and transport dynamics. Here, we report that the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme UBE2J1, also anchored in the ER membrane, partners with RNF26 in this context, and that the cellular activity of the resulting E2/E3 pair is localized in a perinuclear ER subdomain and supported by transmembrane interactions. Through modification of SQSTM1/p62 on lysine 435, the ER-embedded UBE2J1/RNF26 ubiquitylation complex recruits endosomal adaptors to immobilize their cognate vesicles in the perinuclear region of the cell. The resulting spatiotemporal compartmentalization promotes the trafficking of activated EGFR to lysosomes and facilitates the termination of EGF-induced AKT signaling.
PXD023317	33473116	SUMOylation disassembles the tetrameric pyruvate kinase M2 to block myeloid differentiation of leukemia cells. 	SUMOylation disassembles the tetrameric pyruvate kinase M2 to block myeloid differentiation of leukemia cells	RUNX1, SUMOylation, differentiation, pyruvate kinase	Leukemia arises from blockage of the differentiation/maturation of hematopoietic progenitor cells at different stages with uncontrolled proliferation of leukemic cells. However, the signal pathways that block cell differentiation remain unclear. Herein we found that SUMOylation of the M2 isoform of pyruvate kinase (PKM2), a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme catalyzing the dephosphorylation of phosphoenolpyruvate to pyruvate, is prevalent in a variety of leukemic cell lines as well as primary samples from patients with leukemia through multiple-reaction monitoring based targeted mass spectrometry analysis. SUMOylation of PKM2 lysine 270 (K270) triggered conformation change from tetrameric to dimeric of PKM2, reduced PK activity, and led to nuclear translocation of PKM2. SUMO1 modification of PKM2 recruits and promotes degradation of RUNX1 via a SUMO-interacting motif, resulting in blockage of myeloid differentiation of NB4 and U937 leukemia cells. Replacement of wild type PKM2 with a SUMOylation-deficient mutant (K270R) abrogated the interaction with RUNX1, and the blockage of myeloid differentiation in vitro and in xenograft model. Our results establish PKM2 as an essential modulator of leukemia cell differentiation and a potential therapeutic target, which may offer synergistic effect with differentiation therapy in the treatment of leukemia.
PXD020323	33475084	Chemical genetics and proteome-wide site mapping reveal cysteine MARylation by PARP-7 on immune-relevant protein targets. 	Chemical genetics and proteome-wide site mapping reveal cysteine MARylation by PARP-7 on immune-relevant protein targets	Chemical genetics, MARylation, PARP-7, enzymatic targets, protein-protein interactions	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 7 (PARP-7) has emerged as a critically important member of a large enzyme family that catalyzes ADP-ribosylation in mammalian cells. PARP-7 is a critical regulator of the innate immune response. What remains unclear is the mechanism by which PARP-7 regulates this process, namely because the protein targets of PARP-7 mono-ADP-ribosylation (MARylation) are largely unknown. Here, we combine chemical genetics, proximity labeling, and proteome-wide amino acid ADP-ribosylation site profiling for identifying the direct targets and sites of PARP-7-mediated MARylation in a cellular context. We found that the inactive PARP family member, PARP-13-a critical regulator of the antiviral innate immune response-is a major target of PARP-7. PARP-13 is preferentially MARylated on cysteine residues in its RNA binding zinc finger domain. Proteome-wide ADP-ribosylation analysis reveals cysteine as a major MARylation acceptor of PARP-7. This study provides insight into PARP-7 targeting and MARylation site preference.
PXD013861	33475132	A Novel Signaling Pathway Required for Arabidopsis Endodermal Root Organization Shapes the Rhizosphere Microbiome. 	Endodermis-specific Receptor-like Kinase (ERK1) is required for the deposition of lignin in the Casparian strip in the root	ERK1, Root, Time for Coffee, endodermis, phosphorylation	The Casparian strip (CS) constitutes a physical diffusion barrier to water and nutrients in plant roots, which is formed by the polar deposition of lignin polymer in the endodermis tissue. The precise pattern of lignin deposition is determined by the scaffolding activity of membrane-bound Casparian Strip domain proteins (CASPs), but little is known of the mechanism(s) directing this process. Here, we demonstrate that Endodermis-specific Receptor-like Kinase 1 (ERK1) and, to a lesser extent, ROP Binding Kinase1 (RBK1) are also involved in regulating CS formation, with the former playing an essential role in lignin deposition as well as in the localization of CASP1. We show that ERK1 is localized to the cytoplasm and nucleus of the endodermis and that together with the circadian clock regulator, Time for Coffee (TIC), forms part of a novel signaling pathway necessary for correct CS organization and suberization of the endodermis, with their single or combined loss of function resulting in altered root microbiome composition. In addition, we found that other mutants displaying defects in suberin deposition at the CS also display altered root exudates and microbiome composition. Thus, our work reveals a complex network of signaling factors operating within the root endodermis that establish both the CS diffusion barrier and influence the microbial composition of the rhizosphere.
PXD021683	33475153	Sex estimation of teeth at different developmental stages using dimorphic enamel peptide analysis. 	Sex Determination of Infant Remains	Amelogenin, Archaeology, Perinate, Sex Determination, Tooth enamel	OBJECTIVES: This study tests, for the first time, the applicability of a new method of sex estimation utilizing enamel peptides on a sample of deciduous and permanent teeth at different stages of mineralization, from nonadults of unknown sex, including perinates. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 43 teeth from 29 nonadult individuals aged from 40 gestational weeks to 19 years old were analyzed. The sample included pairs of fully mineralized and just developing teeth from the same individual. The individuals were from four archaeological sites in England: Piddington (1st-2nd centuries AD), Coach Lane, Victoria Gate, and Fewston (all 18th-19th centuries). A method that identifies sex chromosome-linked isoforms of the peptide amelogenin from human tooth enamel was applied. The method utilizes a minimally destructive acid etching procedure and subsequent nano liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. RESULTS: It was possible to determine the sex of 28 of the nonadult individuals sampled (males = 20, females = 8, undetermined = 1). Only one sample failed (CL9), due to insufficient mineralization of the sampled tooth enamel. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021683. DISCUSSION: Sufficient peptide material to determine sex can be recovered even from the crowns of developing perinatal teeth that are not fully mineralized. The minimally destructive and inexpensive (compared to ancient DNA) nature of this procedure has significant implications for bioarchaeological studies of infancy and childhood.
PXD021422	33476154	Systematic Identification of Protein Phosphorylation-Mediated Interactions. 	Systematic Identification of Protein Phosphorylation-Mediated Interactions	Complexes, SEC, Shotgun	Protein phosphorylation is a key regulatory mechanism involved in nearly every eukaryotic cellular process. Increasingly sensitive mass spectrometry approaches have identified hundreds of thousands of phosphorylation sites, but the functions of a vast majority of these sites remain unknown, with fewer than 5% of sites currently assigned a function. To increase our understanding of functional protein phosphorylation we developed an approach (phospho-DIFFRAC) for identifying the phosphorylation-dependence of protein assemblies in a systematic manner. A combination of nonspecific protein phosphatase treatment, size-exclusion chromatography, and mass spectrometry allowed us to identify changes in protein interactions after the removal of phosphate modifications. With this approach we were able to identify 316 proteins involved in phosphorylation-sensitive interactions. We recovered known phosphorylation-dependent interactors such as the FACT complex and spliceosome, as well as identified novel interactions such as the tripeptidyl peptidase TPP2 and the supraspliceosome component ZRANB2. More generally, we find phosphorylation-dependent interactors to be strongly enriched for RNA-binding proteins, providing new insight into the role of phosphorylation in RNA binding. By searching directly for phosphorylated amino acid residues in mass spectrometry data, we identified the likely regulatory phosphosites on ZRANB2 and FACT complex subunit SSRP1. This study provides both a method and resource for obtaining a better understanding of the role of phosphorylation in native macromolecular assemblies. All mass spectrometry data are available through PRIDE (accession #PXD021422).
PXD023343	33477636	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals that GmENO2 Proteins Are Involved in Response to Phosphate Starvation in the Leaves of Glycine max L. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of soybean leaves under low and high phosphate conditions	low phosphate, soybean	Soybean (Glycine max L.) is a major crop providing important source for protein and oil for human life. Low phosphate (LP) availability is a critical limiting factor affecting soybean production. Soybean plants develop a series of strategies to adapt to phosphate (Pi) limitation condition. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for LP stress response remain largely unknown. Here, we performed a label-free quantification (LFQ) analysis of soybean leaves grown under low and high phosphate conditions. We identified 267 induced and 440 reduced differential proteins from phosphate-starved leaves. Almost a quarter of the LP decreased proteins are involved in translation processes, while the LP increased proteins are accumulated in chlorophyll biosynthetic and carbon metabolic processes. Among these induced proteins, an enolase protein, GmENO2a was found to be mostly induced protein. On the transcriptional level, GmENO2a and GmENO2b, but not GmENO2c or GmENO2d, were dramatically induced by phosphate starvation. Among 14 enolase genes, only GmENO2a and GmENO2b genes contain the P1BS motif in their promoter regions. Furthermore, GmENO2b was specifically induced in the GmPHR31 overexpressing soybean plants. Our findings provide molecular insights into how soybean plants tune basic carbon metabolic pathway to adapt to Pi deprivation through the ENO2 enzymes.
PXD023127	33477742	A Wolf in Another Wolf's Clothing: Post-Genomic Regulation Dictates Venom Profiles of Medically-Important Cryptic Kraits in India. 	A wolf in another wolf's clothing: Post-genomic regulation dictates venom profiles of medically-important cryptic kraits in India	Bungarus venom, Snake venoms, transcripomics	The Common Krait (Bungarus caeruleus) shares a distribution range with many other 'phenotypically-similar' kraits across the Indian subcontinent. Despite several reports of fatal envenomings by other Bungarus species, commercial Indian antivenoms are only manufactured against B. caeruleus. It is, therefore, imperative to understand the distribution of genetically distinct lineages of kraits, the compositional differences in their venoms, and the consequent impact of venom variation on the (pre)clinical effectiveness of antivenom therapy. To address this knowledge gap, we conducted phylogenetic and comparative venomics investigations of kraits in Southern and Western India. Phylogenetic reconstructions using mitochondrial markers revealed a new species of krait, Romulus' krait (Bungarus romulusi sp. nov.), in Southern India. Additionally, we found that kraits with 17 mid-body dorsal scale rows in Western India do not represent a subspecies of the Sind Krait (B. sindanus walli) as previously believed, but are genetically very similar to B. sindanus in Pakistan. Furthermore, venom proteomics and comparative transcriptomics revealed completely contrasting venom profiles. While the venom gland transcriptomes of all three species were highly similar, venom proteomes and toxicity profiles differed significantly, suggesting the prominent role of post-genomic regulatory mechanisms in shaping the venoms of these cryptic kraits. In vitro venom recognition and in vivo neutralisation experiments revealed a strong negative impact of venom variability on the preclinical performance of commercial antivenoms. While the venom of B. caeruleus was neutralised as per the manufacturer's claim, performance against the venoms of B. sindanus and B. romulusi was poor, highlighting the need for regionally-effective antivenoms in India.
PXD020494	33478506	Proteomics analysis of a human brain sample from a mucolipidosis type IV patient reveals pathophysiological pathways. 	Pathological pathways and biomarker in Mucolipidosis type IV mice and post mortem patient.	CSF, brain, mice	BACKGROUND: Mucolipidosis type IV (MLIV), an ultra-rare neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorder, is caused by mutations in the MCOLN1 gene, which encodes the late endosomal/lysosomal transient receptor potential channel TRPML1 (mucolipin 1). The precise pathophysiogical pathways that cause neurological disease in MLIV are poorly understood. Recently, the first post-mortem brain sample became available from a single MLIV patient, and in the current study we performed mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics on this tissue with a view to delineating pathological pathways, and to compare with previously-published data on MLIV, including studies using the Mcoln1(-/-) mouse. RESULTS: A number of pathways were altered in two brain regions from the MLIV patient, including those related to the lysosome, lipid metabolism, myelination, cellular trafficking and autophagy, mTOR and calmodulin, the complement system and interferon signaling. Of these, levels of some proteins not known previously to be associated with MLIV were altered, including APOD, PLIN4, ATG and proteins related to interferon signaling. Moreover, when proteins detected by proteomics in the human brain were compared with their orthologs detected in the Mcoln1(-/-) mouse by RNAseq, the results were remarkably similar. Finally, analysis of proteins in human and mouse CSF suggest that calbindin 1 and calbindin 2 might be useful as biomarkers to help chart the course of disease development. CONCLUSIONS: Despite the sample size limitations, our findings are consistent with the relatively general changes in lysosomal function previously reported in MLIV, and shed light on new pathways of disease pathophysiology, which is required in order to understand the course of disease development and to determine the efficacy of therapies when they become available for this devastating disease.
PXD019335	33478986	A New Mouse Model Related to SCA14 Carrying a Pseudosubstrate Domain Mutation in PKCgamma Shows Perturbed Purkinje Cell Maturation and Ataxic Motor Behavior. 	A new Knock-in mouse model of SCA14 with increased PKCgamma activity induces a SCA-like phenotype with perturbed Purkinje cell maturation and ataxic motor behavior	PKC gamma, Phosphoproteomics, SCA	Spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are diseases characterized by cerebellar atrophy and loss of Purkinje neurons caused by mutations in diverse genes. In SCA14, the disease is caused by point mutations or small deletions in protein kinase C gamma (PKCgamma), a crucial signaling protein in Purkinje cells. It is still unclear whether increased or decreased PKCgamma activity may be involved in the SCA14 pathogenesis. In this study, we present a new knock-in mouse model related to SCA14 with a point mutation in the pseudosubstrate domain, PKCgamma-A24E, known to induce a constitutive PKCgamma activation. In this protein conformation, the kinase domain of PKCgamma is activated, but at the same time the protein is subject to dephosphorylation and protein degradation. As a result, we find a dramatic reduction of PKCgamma protein expression in PKCgamma-A24E mice of either sex. Despite this reduction, there is clear evidence for an increased PKC activity in Purkinje cells from PKCgamma-A24E mice. Purkinje cells derived from PKCgamma-A24E have short thickened dendrites typical for PKC activation. These mice also develop a marked ataxia and signs of Purkinje cell dysfunction making them an interesting new mouse model related to SCA. Recently, a similar mutation in a human patient was discovered and found to be associated with overt SCA14. RNA profiling of PKCgamma-A24E mice showed a dysregulation of related signaling pathways, such as mGluR1 or mTOR. Our results show that the induction of PKCgamma activation in Purkinje cells results in the SCA-like phenotype indicating PKC activation as one pathogenetic avenue leading to a SCA.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are hereditary diseases affecting cerebellar Purkinje cells and are a one of neurodegenerative diseases. While mutation in several genes have been identified as causing SCAs, it is unclear how these mutations cause the disease phenotype. Mutations in PKCgamma cause one subtype of SCAs, SCA14. In this study, we have generated a knock-in mouse with a mutation in the pseudosubstrate domain of PKCgamma, which keeps PKCgamma in the constitutive active open conformation. We show that this mutation leading to a constant activation of PKCgamma results in a SCA-like phenotype in these mice. Our findings establish the constant activation of PKC signaling as one pathogenetic avenue leading to an SCA phenotype and a mechanism causing a neurodegenerative disease.
PXD008597	33479150	Convergent evolution of pain-inducing defensive venom components in spitting cobras. 	Genus wide venom proteomics of cobras (Naja)	Cobra, Naja, Snake venom, Top-down Proteomics, Top-down Venomics, Venom Proteomics	Convergent evolution provides insights into the selective drivers underlying evolutionary change. Snake venoms, with a direct genetic basis and clearly defined functional phenotype, provide a model system for exploring the repeated evolution of adaptations. While snakes use venom primarily for predation, and venom composition often reflects diet specificity, three lineages of cobras have independently evolved the ability to spit venom at adversaries. Using gene, protein, and functional analyses, we show that the three spitting lineages possess venoms characterized by an up-regulation of phospholipase A2 (PLA2) toxins, which potentiate the action of preexisting venom cytotoxins to activate mammalian sensory neurons and cause enhanced pain. These repeated independent changes provide a fascinating example of convergent evolution across multiple phenotypic levels driven by selection for defense.
PXD020877	33479285	In vitro synthesis of 32 translation-factor proteins from a single template reveals impaired ribosomal processivity. 	In vitro synthesis of 32 translation-factor proteins from a single template reveals impaired ribosomal processivity	PURE, cell free, gene expression, in vitro evolution, in vitro gene expression, ribosome processivity, synthetic cell	The Protein synthesis Using Recombinant Elements (PURE) system enables transcription and translation of a DNA template from purified components. Therefore, the PURE system-catalyzed generation of RNAs and proteins constituting the PURE system itself represents a major challenge toward a self-replicating minimal cell. In this work, we show that all translation factors (except elongation factor Tu) and 20 aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases can be expressed in the PURE system from a single plasmid encoding 32 proteins in 30 cistrons. Cell-free synthesis of all 32 proteins is confirmed by quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis using isotopically labeled amino acids. We find that a significant fraction of the gene products consists of proteins missing their C-terminal ends. The per-codon processivity loss that we measure lies between 1.3 x 10(-3) and 13.2 x 10(-3), depending on the expression conditions, the version of the PURE system, and the coding sequence. These values are 5 to 50 times higher than those measured in vivo in E. coli. With such an impaired processivity, a considerable fraction of the biosynthesis capacity of the PURE system is wasted, posing an unforeseen challenge toward the development of a self-regenerating PURE system.
PXD019770	33479349	Acetyl-CoA flux from the cytosol to the ER regulates engagement and quality of the secretory pathway. 	Acetyl-CoA flux maintains intracellular crosstalk and modulats engagement of the secretory pathway	brain, glycoproteomics	Nepsilon-lysine acetylation in the ER is an essential component of the quality control machinery. ER acetylation is ensured by a membrane transporter, AT-1/SLC33A1, which translocates cytosolic acetyl-CoA into the ER lumen, and two acetyltransferases, ATase1 and ATase2, which acetylate nascent polypeptides within the ER lumen. Dysfunctional AT-1, as caused by gene mutation or duplication events, results in severe disease phenotypes. Here, we used two models of AT-1 dysregulation to investigate dynamics of the secretory pathway: AT-1 sTg, a model of systemic AT-1 overexpression, and AT-1(S113R/+), a model of AT-1 haploinsufficiency. The animals displayed reorganization of the ER, ERGIC, and Golgi apparatus. In particular, AT-1 sTg animals displayed a marked delay in Golgi-to-plasma membrane protein trafficking, significant alterations in Golgi-based N-glycan modification, and a marked expansion of the lysosomal network. Collectively our results indicate that AT-1 is essential to maintain proper organization and engagement of the secretory pathway.
PXD018049	33480129	Transient deSUMOylation of IRF2BP proteins controls early transcription in EGFR signaling. 	Feedback regulation in EGFR signaling involves IRF2BP proteins and temporal control by (de)SUMOylation	DUSP1, EGF, EGFR, IRF2BP1, IRF2BP2, SUMO, feedback inhibitor, regulation, transcription	Molecular switches are essential modules in signaling networks and transcriptional reprogramming. Here, we describe a role for small ubiquitin-related modifier SUMO as a molecular switch in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we compare the endogenous SUMO proteomes of HeLa cells before and after EGF stimulation. Thereby, we identify a small group of transcriptional coregulators including IRF2BP1, IRF2BP2, and IRF2BPL as novel players in EGFR signaling. Comparison of cells expressing wild type or SUMOylation-deficient IRF2BP1 indicates that transient deSUMOylation of IRF2BP proteins is important for appropriate expression of immediate early genes including dual specificity phosphatase 1 (DUSP1, MKP-1) and the transcription factor ATF3. We find that IRF2BP1 is a repressor, whose transient deSUMOylation on the DUSP1 promoter allows-and whose timely reSUMOylation restricts-DUSP1 transcription. Our work thus provides a paradigm how comparative SUMO proteome analyses serve to reveal novel regulators in signal transduction and transcription.
PXD019928	33481299	Profiling thimet oligopeptidase-mediated proteolysis in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Profiling thimet oligopeptidase-mediated proteolysis in Arabidopsis thaliana	TOPs, peptidome, thimet oligopeptidases	Protein homeostasis (proteostasis) is crucial for proper cellular function, including the production of peptides with biological functions through controlled proteolysis. Proteostasis has roles in maintenance of cellular functions and plant interactions with the environment under physiological conditions. Plant stress continues to reduce agricultural yields causing substantial economic losses; thus, it is critical to understand how plants perceive stress signals to elicit responses for survival. As previously shown in Arabidopsis thaliana, thimet oligopeptidases (TOPs) TOP1 (also referred to as organellar oligopeptidase) and TOP2 (also referred to as cytosolic oligopeptidase) are essential components in plant response to pathogens, but further characterization of TOPs and their peptide substrates is required to understand their contributions to stress perception and defense signaling. Herein, label-free peptidomics via liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was used to differentially quantify 1111 peptides, originating from 369 proteins, between the Arabidopsis Col-0 wild type and top1top2 knock-out mutant. This revealed 350 peptides as significantly more abundant in the mutant, representing accumulation of these potential TOP substrates. Ten direct substrates were validated using in vitro enzyme assays with recombinant TOPs and synthetic candidate peptides. These TOP substrates are derived from proteins involved in photosynthesis, glycolysis, protein folding, biogenesis, and antioxidant defense, implicating TOP involvement in processes aside from defense signaling. Sequence motif analysis revealed TOP cleavage preference for non-polar residues in the positions surrounding the cleavage site. Identification of these substrates provides a framework for TOP signaling networks, through which the interplay between proteolytic pathways and defense signaling can be further characterized.
PXD020722	33481347	Urinary proteome profiling for stratifying patients with familial Parkinson's disease. 	Urinary proteome profiling in Parkinson's disease	DIA, Parkinson's disease, biomarker, body fluid, neurodegeneration, urine	The prevalence of Parkinson's disease (PD) is increasing but the development of novel treatment strategies and therapeutics altering the course of the disease would benefit from specific, sensitive, and non-invasive biomarkers to detect PD early. Here, we describe a scalable and sensitive mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic workflow for urinary proteome profiling. Our workflow enabled the reproducible quantification of more than 2,000 proteins in more than 200 urine samples using minimal volumes from two independent patient cohorts. The urinary proteome was significantly different between PD patients and healthy controls, as well as between LRRK2 G2019S carriers and non-carriers in both cohorts. Interestingly, our data revealed lysosomal dysregulation in individuals with the LRRK2 G2019S mutation. When combined with machine learning, the urinary proteome data alone were sufficient to classify mutation status and disease manifestation in mutation carriers remarkably well, identifying VGF, ENPEP, and other PD-associated proteins as the most discriminating features. Taken together, our results validate urinary proteomics as a valuable strategy for biomarker discovery and patient stratification in PD.
PXD023373	33482911	Long-read transcriptome sequencing reveals abundant promoter diversity in distinct molecular subtypes of gastric cancer. 	Long-read transcriptome sequencing reveals abundant promoter diversity in distinct molecular subtypes of gastric cancer	Gastric Cancer, alternative promoters, isoform sequencing (Iso-Seq), long-read sequencing	BACKGROUND: Deregulated gene expression is a hallmark of cancer; however, most studies to date have analyzed short-read RNA sequencing data with inherent limitations. Here, we combine PacBio long-read isoform sequencing (Iso-Seq) and Illumina paired-end short-read RNA sequencing to comprehensively survey the transcriptome of gastric cancer (GC), a leading cause of global cancer mortality. RESULTS: We performed full-length transcriptome analysis across 10 GC cell lines covering four major GC molecular subtypes (chromosomal unstable, Epstein-Barr positive, genome stable and microsatellite unstable). We identify 60,239 non-redundant full-length transcripts, of which > 66% are novel compared to current transcriptome databases. Novel isoforms are more likely to be cell line and subtype specific, expressed at lower levels with larger number of exons, with longer isoform/coding sequence lengths. Most novel isoforms utilize an alternate first exon, and compared to other alternative splicing categories, are expressed at higher levels and exhibit higher variability. Collectively, we observe alternate promoter usage in 25% of detected genes, with the majority (84.2%) of known/novel promoter pairs exhibiting potential changes in their coding sequences. Mapping these alternate promoters to TCGA GC samples, we identify several cancer-associated isoforms, including novel variants of oncogenes. Tumor-specific transcript isoforms tend to alter protein coding sequences to a larger extent than other isoforms. Analysis of outcome data suggests that novel isoforms may impart additional prognostic information. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide a rich resource of full-length transcriptome data for deeper studies of GC and other gastrointestinal malignancies.
PXD019694	33482915	SOX4 maintains the stemness of cancer cells via transcriptionally enhancing HDAC1 revealed by comparative proteomics study. 	SOX4 supports cancer stemness by enhancing HDAC1 transcription revealed by comparative proteomics	Cancer stemness, Comparative proteomics, HDAC1, SOX4	BACKGROUND: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are the root of human cancer development and the major cause of treatment failure. Aberrant elevation of SOX4, a member of SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family transcription factors, has been identified in many types of human cancer and promotes cancer development. However, the role of SOX4 in CSCs, especially at a proteome-wide level, has remained elusive. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of SOX4 on the stemness of CSCs and reveal the underlying mechanisms by identification of SOX4-induced proteome changes through proteomics study. RESULTS: Overexpression of SOX4 promotes sphere formation and self-renewal of colorectal cancer cells in vitro and in vivo and elevates the expression levels of CSCs markers. Through iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomics analysis, 215 differentially expressed proteins (128 upregulated, 87 downregulated) in SOX4-overexpressing HCT-116 spheres were identified. The bioinformatic analysis highlighted the importance of HDAC1 as the fundamental roles of its impacted pathways in stem cell maintenance, including Wnt, Notch, cell cycle, and transcriptional misregulation in cancer. The mechanistic study showed that SOX4 directly binds to the promoter of HDAC1, promotes HDAC1 transcription, thereby supporting the stemness of colorectal cancer cells. HDAC1 hallmarks colorectal cancer stem cells and depletion of HDAC1 abolished the stimulatory effect of SOX4. Furthermore, SOX4-HDAC1 axis is conserved in multiple types of cancer. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study reveal SOX4-induced proteome changes in HCT-116 spheres and demonstrates that transcriptional activation of HDAC1 is the primary mechanism underlying SOX4 maintaining CSCs. This finding suggests that HDAC1 is a potential drug target for eradicating SOX4-driven human CSCs.
PXD020799	33483421	Large remodeling of the Myc-induced cell surface proteome in B cells and prostate cells creates new opportunities for immunotherapy. 	Large bidirectional remodeling of the Myc-induced cell surface proteome in B-cells and prostate cells creates new opportunities for immunotherapy	Immunotherapy, Oncogene MYC, Surfaceome	MYC is a powerful transcription factor overexpressed in many human cancers including B cell and prostate cancers. Antibody therapeutics are exciting opportunities to attack cancers but require knowledge of surface proteins that change due to oncogene expression. To identify how MYC overexpression remodels the cell surface proteome in a cell autologous fashion and in different cell types, we investigated the impact of MYC overexpression on 800 surface proteins in three isogenic model cell lines either of B cell or prostate cell origin engineered to have high or low MYC levels. We found that MYC overexpression resulted in dramatic remodeling (both up- and down-regulation) of the cell surfaceome in a cell type-dependent fashion. We found systematic and large increases in distinct sets of >80 transporters including nucleoside transporters and nutrient transporters making cells more sensitive to toxic nucleoside analogs like cytarabine, commonly used for treating hematological cancers. Paradoxically, MYC overexpression also increased expression of surface proteins driving cell turnover such as TNFRSF10B, also known as death receptor 5, and immune cell attacking signals such as the natural killer cell activating ligand NCR3LG1, also known as B7-H6. We generated recombinant antibodies to these two targets and verified their up-regulation in MYC overexpression cell lines and showed they were sensitive to bispecific T cell engagers (BiTEs). Our studies demonstrate how MYC overexpression leads to dramatic bidirectional remodeling of the surfaceome in a cell type-dependent but functionally convergent fashion and identify surface targets or combinations thereof as possible candidates for cytotoxic metabolite or immunotherapy.
PXD019612	33483501	Artemisinin-resistant K13 mutations rewire Plasmodium falciparum's intra-erythrocytic metabolic program to enhance survival. 	Global protein quantification of changes in K13 mutant and isogenic wild-type P. falciparum parasites during the intra-erythrocytic developmental cycle	K13, Plasmodium falciparum, artemisinin resistance, malaria	The emergence and spread of artemisinin resistance, driven by mutations in Plasmodium falciparum K13, has compromised antimalarial efficacy and threatens the global malaria elimination campaign. By applying systems-based quantitative transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics to a panel of isogenic K13 mutant or wild-type P. falciparum lines, we provide evidence that K13 mutations alter multiple aspects of the parasite's intra-erythrocytic developmental program. These changes impact cell-cycle periodicity, the unfolded protein response, protein degradation, vesicular trafficking, and mitochondrial metabolism. K13-mediated artemisinin resistance in the Cambodian Cam3.II line was reversed by atovaquone, a mitochondrial electron transport chain inhibitor. These results suggest that mitochondrial processes including damage sensing and anti-oxidant properties might augment the ability of mutant K13 to protect P. falciparum against artemisinin action by helping these parasites undergo temporary quiescence and accelerated growth recovery post drug elimination.
PXD014291	33483585	The expression of YWHAZ and NDRG1 predicts aggressive outcome in human prostate cancer. 	Human Prostate and Benign Prostate Hyperplasia, LC MSMS	LC MSMS, Prostate	Some prostate cancers (PCas) are histo-pathologically grouped within the same Gleason Grade (GG), but can differ significantly in outcome. Herein, we aimed at identifying molecular biomarkers that could improve risk prediction in PCa. LC ESI-MS/MS was performed on human PCa and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) tissues and peptide data was integrated with omic analyses. We identified high YWHAZ and NDRG1 expression to be associated with poor PCa prognosis considering all Gleason scores (GS). YWHAZ and NDRG1 defined two subpopulations of PCa patients with high and intermediate risk of death. Multivariable analyses confirmed their independence from GS. ROC analysis unveiled that YWHAZ outperformed GS beyond 60 months post-diagnosis. The genomic analysis of PCa patients with YWHAZ amplification, or increased mRNA or protein levels, revealed significant alterations in key DNA repair genes. We hereby state the relevance of YWHAZ in PCa, showcasing its role as an independent strong predictor of aggressiveness.
PXD017462	33485896	Differential proteome between ejaculate and epididymal sperm represents a key factor for sperm freezability in wild small ruminants. 	Differential proteome between ejaculate and epididymal sperm represents a key factor for sperm freezability in wild small ruminants	TMT, cross-species, cryopreservation, germplasm bank, goat, sheep, sperm	Epididymal sperm shows higher cryoresistance than ejaculated sperm. Although the sperm proteome seems to affect cell cryoresistance, studies aiming at identifying proteins involved in sperm freezing-tolerance are scarce. The aims of this study were to investigate differences of sperm freezability and proteome between epididymal and ejaculated sperm in three mountain ungulates: Iberian ibex, Mouflon and Chamois. Sperm samples were cryopreserved in straws by slow freezing. Tandem mass tag-labeled peptides from sperm samples were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography coupled to a mass spectrometer in three technical replicates. The statistical analysis was done using the moderated t-test of the R package limma. Differences of freezability between both types of sperm were associated with differences of the proteome. Overall, epididymal sperm showed higher freezability than ejaculated sperm. Between 1490 and 1883 proteins were quantified in each species and type of sperm sample. Cross species comparisons revealed a total of 76 proteins that were more abundant in epididymal than in ejaculated sperm in the three species of study whereas 3 proteins were more abundant in ejaculated than epididymal sperm in the three species of study (adjusted P < 0.05; |log2| fold-change > 0.5). Many of the proteins that were associated with higher cryoresistance are involved in stress response and redox homeostasis. In conclusion, marked changes of sperm proteome were detected between epididymal and ejaculated sperm. This work contributes to update the sperm proteome of small ruminants and to identify candidate markers of sperm freezability.
PXD022162	33488545	Extracellular Vesicles Derived From Talaromyces marneffei Yeasts Mediate Inflammatory Response in Macrophage Cells by Bioactive Protein Components. 	The LC-MS/MS data of EVs derived from Talaromyces marneffei	EVs, Talaromyces marneffei, protemics	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) loaded with proteins, nucleic acids, membrane lipids, and other virulence factors could participate in pathogenic processes in some fungi such as Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida albicans. However, the specific characteristics of EVs derived from Talaromyces marneffei (TM) still have not been figured out yet. In the present study, it has been observed that TM-derived EVs were a heterogeneous group of nanosized membrane vesicles (30-300 nm) under nanoparticle tracking analysis and transmission electron microscopy. The DiI-labeled EVs could be taken up by RAW 264.7 macrophage cells. Incubation of EVs with macrophages would result in increased expression levels of reactive oxygen species, nitric oxide, and some inflammatory factors including interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, interleukin-10, and tumor necrosis factor. Furthermore, the expression of co-stimulatory molecules (CD80, CD86, and MHC-II) was also increased in macrophages stimulated with EVs. The level of inflammatory factors secreted by macrophages showed a significant decrease when EVs were hydrolyzed by protease, while that of DNA and RNA hydrolase treatment remained unchanged. Subsequently, some virulence factors in EVs including heat shock protein, mannoprotein 1, and peroxidase were determined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Taken together, our results indicated that the TM-derived EVs could mediate inflammatory response and its protein would play a key role in regulating the function of RAW 264.7 macrophage cells.
PXD008149	33489123	An acetate-yielding diet imprints an immune and anti-microbial programme against enteric infection. 	Acetate yielding diet protects mice from C. rodentium infection	Metaproteomics, metaproteome SCFA acetate mouse stool	OBJECTIVES: During gastrointestinal infection, dysbiosis can result in decreased production of microbially derived short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). In response to the presence of intestinal pathogens, we examined whether an engineered acetate- or butyrate-releasing diet can rectify the deficiency of SCFAs and lead to the resolution of enteric infection. METHODS: We tested whether a high acetate- or butyrate-producing diet (HAMSA or HAMSB, respectively) condition Citrobacter rodentium infection in mice and assess its impact on host-microbiota interactions. We analysed the adaptive and innate immune responses, changes in gut microbiome function, epithelial barrier function and the molecular mechanism via metabolite sensing G protein-coupled receptor 43 (GPR43) and IL-22 expression. RESULTS: HAMSA diet rectified the deficiency in acetate production and protected against enteric infection. Increased SCFAs affect the expression of pathogen virulence genes. HAMSA diet promoted compositional and functional changes in the gut microbiota during infection similar to healthy microbiota from non-infected mice. Bacterial changes were evidenced by the production of proteins involved in acetate utilisation, starch and sugar degradation, amino acid biosynthesis, carbohydrate transport and metabolism. HAMSA diet also induced changes in host proteins critical in glycolysis, wound healing such as GPX1 and epithelial architecture such as EZR1 and PFN1. Dietary acetate assisted in rapid epithelial repair, as shown by increased colonic Muc-2, Il-22, and anti-microbial peptides. We found that acetate increased numbers of colonic IL-22 producing TCRalphabeta(+)CD8alphabeta(+) and TCRgammadelta(+)CD8alphaalpha(+) intraepithelial lymphocytes expressing GPR43. CONCLUSION: HAMSA diet may be an effective therapeutic approach for fighting inflammation and enteric infections and offer a safe alternative that may impact on human health.
PXD022882	33489789	Design and evaluation of synthetic bacterial consortia for optimized phenanthrene degradation through the integration of genomics and shotgun proteomics. 	Metaproteome analysis of two synthetic bacterial consortia	Burkholderia sp. (Bk), Inquilinus limosus (Inq), Klebsiella aerogenes (B), Pseudomonas sp (Bc-h), Pseudomonas sp. (T), Shotgun Proteomics, Sphingobium sp. (AM), Synthetic Bacterial Consortia (SC)	Two synthetic bacterial consortia (SC) composed of bacterial strains Sphingobium sp. (AM), Klebsiella aerogenes (B), Pseudomonas sp. (Bc-h and T), Burkholderia sp. (Bk) and Inquilinus limosus (Inq) isolated from a natural phenanthrene (PHN)-degrading consortium (CON) were developed and evaluated as an alternative approach to PHN biodegradation in bioremediation processes. A metabolic network showing the potential role of strains was reconstructed by in silico study of the six genomes and classification of dioxygenase enzymes using RHObase and AromaDeg databases. Network analysis suggested that AM and Bk were responsible for PHN initial attack, while Inq, B, T and Bc-h would degrade PHN metabolites. The predicted roles were further confirmed by physiological, RT-qPCR and metaproteomic assays. SC-1 with AM as the sole PHN degrader was the most efficient. The ecological roles inferred in this study can be applied to optimize the design of bacterial consortia and tackle the biodegradation of complex environmental pollutants.
PXD021423	33489935	Global Lysine Crotonylation Alterations of Host Cell Proteins Caused by Brucella Effector BspF. 	Global Lysine Crotonylation Alterations of Host Cell Proteins Caused by Brucella GNAT Containing Effector BspF	Brucella, BspF, T4SS, crotonyltransferase, effector, lysine crotonylation	In Brucella spp., the type IV secretion system (T4SS) is essential for bacterial intracellular survival and inhibition of the host innate immune response. The Brucella T4SS secretes 15 different effectors to escape host immunity and promote intracellular replication. Among them, BspF has a GNAT-family acetyltransferase domain, implying its acetyltransferase activity. We confirmed that BspF has acetyltransferase activity (data not shown) and de-crotonyltransferase activity. However, BspF overexpressed in HEK-293T cells can also enhance octamer crotonylation in vitro. Then we enriched crotonylated proteins and conducted LC-MS to study the crotonylation changes of proteins in HEK-293T cells caused by BspF overexpression. A total of 5,559 crotonylation sites were identified on 1,525 different proteins, of which 331 sites on 265 proteins were significantly changed. We found that Rab9A and RAP1B in proteomics data have a great impact on Brucella survival, so we speculate that BspF may influence the function of host proteins by altering crotonylation, thereby promoting the intracellular propagation of Brucella.
PXD021970	33489941	A Hetero-Multimeric Chitinase-Containing Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium gallinaceum Ookinete-Secreted Protein Complex Involved in Mosquito Midgut Invasion. 	Plasmodium berghei and Plasmodium falciparum LC-MS/MS	Plasmodium berghei and Plasmodium falciparum, Q-Exactive Plus (Thermo Fisher Scientific) LC MS/MS system	Malaria parasites are transmitted by Anopheles mosquitoes. During its life cycle in the mosquito vector the Plasmodium ookinete escapes the proteolytic milieu of the post-blood meal midgut by traversing the midgut wall. This process requires penetration of the chitin-containing peritrophic matrix lining the midgut epithelium, which depends in part on ookinete-secreted chitinases. Plasmodium falciparum ookinetes have one chitinase (PfCHT1), whereas ookinetes of the avian-infecting parasite, P. gallinaceum, have two, a long and a short form, PgCHT1 and PgCHT2, respectively. Published data indicates that PgCHT2 forms a high molecular weight (HMW) reduction-sensitive complex; and one binding partner is the ookinete-produced von Willebrand A-domain-containing protein, WARP. Size exclusion chromatography data reported here show that P. gallinaceum PgCHT2 and its ortholog, P. falciparum PfCHT1 are covalently-linked components of a HMW chitinase-containing complex (> 1,300 kDa). Mass spectrometry of ookinete-secreted proteins isolated using a new chitin bead pull-down method identified chitinase-associated proteins in P. falciparum and P. gallinaceum ookinete-conditioned culture media. Mass spectrometry of this complex showed the presence of several micronemal proteins including von Willebrand factor A domain-related protein (WARP), ookinete surface enolase, and secreted ookinete adhesive protein (SOAP). To test the hypothesis that ookinete-produced PfCHT1 can form a high molecular homo-multimer or, alternatively, interacts with P. berghei ookinete-produced proteins to produce an HMW hetero-multimer, we created chimeric P. berghei parasites expressing PfCHT1 to replace PbCHT1, enabling the production of large numbers of PfCHT1-expressing ookinetes. We show that chimeric P. berghei ookinetes express monomeric PfCHT1, but a HMW complex containing PfCHT1 is not present. A better understanding of the chitinase-containing HMW complex may enhance development of next-generation vaccines or drugs that target malaria transmission stages.
PXD021279	33490242	Characterization of Odontogenic Differentiation from Human Dental Pulp Stem Cells Using TMT-Based Proteomic Analysis. 	Characterization of odontogenic differentiation from human dental pulp stem cells using TMT-based proteomic analysis	TMT-label, hDPSCs, odontogenesis	BACKGROUND: The repair of dental pulp injury relies on the odontogenic differentiation of dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs). To better understand the odontogenic differentiation of DPSCs and identify proteins involved in this process, tandem mass tags (TMTs) coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) were applied to compare the proteomic profiles of induced and control DPSCs. METHODS: The proteins expressed during osteogenic differentiation of human DPSCs were profiled using the TMT method combined with LC-MS/MS analysis. The identified proteins were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. Then, a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed. Two selected proteins were confirmed by western blotting (WB) analysis. RESULTS: A total of 223 proteins that were differentially expressed were identified. Among them, 152 proteins were significantly upregulated and 71 were downregulated in the odontogenic differentiation group compared with the control group. On the basis of biological processes in GO, the identified proteins were mainly involved in cellular processes, metabolic processes, and biological regulation, which are connected with the signaling pathways highlighted by KEGG pathway analysis. PPI networks showed that most of the differentially expressed proteins were implicated in physical or functional interaction. The protein expression levels of FBN1 and TGF-beta2 validated by WB were consistent with the proteomic analysis. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first proteomic analysis of human DPSC odontogenesis using a TMT method. We identified many new differentially expressed proteins that are potential targets for pulp-dentin complex regeneration and repair.
PXD022001	33491270	Proteome-wide analyses reveal diverse functions of acetylation proteins in Neurospora crassa. 	Proteome-Wide Analyses Reveal Diverse Functions of Acylation Proteins in Neurospora crassa	Neurospora crassa, Quantitative acetyl-proteomics, acetylated proteins, protein-protein interaction	Quantitative acetyl-proteomics, a newly identified post-translational modification, is known to regulate transcriptional activity in different organisms. Neurospora crassa is a model ascomycete fungus maintained for biochemistry and molecular biology research; however, extensive studies of the functions of its acylation proteins have yet to be performed. In this study, using LC-MS/MS qualitative proteomics strategies, we identified 1909 modification sites on 940 proteins in N. crassa and analysed the functions of these proteins using GO enrichment, KEGG pathway, and subcellular location experiments. We classified the acetylation protein involvement in diverse pathways, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis further demonstrated that these proteins participate in diverse biological processes. In summary, our study comprehensively profiles the crosstalk of modified sites, and PPI among these proteins may form a complex network with both similar and distinct regulatory mechanisms, providing improved understanding of their biological functions in N. crassa.
PXD022706	33492035	A proteome signature for acute incisional pain in dorsal root ganglia of mice. 	Mouse DRG incision injury versus sham_DIA-MS	DIA-MS, DRG, incision injury, pain	ABSTRACT: After surgery, acute pain is still managed insufficiently and may lead to short-term and long-term complications including chronic postsurgical pain and an increased prescription of opioids. Thus, identifying new targets specifically implicated in postoperative pain is of utmost importance to develop effective and nonaddictive analgesics. Here, we used an integrated and multimethod workflow to reveal unprecedented insights into proteome dynamics in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of mice after plantar incision (INC). Based on a detailed characterization of INC-associated pain-related behavior profiles, including a novel paradigm for nonevoked pain, we performed quantitative mass-spectrometry-based proteomics in DRG 1 day after INC. Our data revealed a hitherto unknown INC-regulated protein signature in DRG with changes in distinct proteins and cellular signaling pathways. In particular, we show the differential regulation of 44 protein candidates, many of which are annotated with pathways related to immune and inflammatory responses such as MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinases signaling. Subsequent orthogonal assays comprised multiplex Western blotting, bioinformatic protein network analysis, and immunolabeling in independent mouse cohorts to validate (1) the INC-induced regulation of immune/inflammatory pathways and (2) the high priority candidate Annexin A1. Taken together, our results propose novel potential targets in the context of incision and, therefore, represent a highly valuable resource for further mechanistic and translational studies of postoperative pain.
PXD022915	33494396	Proteomics Analysis of Gastric Cancer Patients with Diabetes Mellitus. 	Proteomics analysis of gastric cancer patients with diabetes mellitus	diabetes mellitus (DM), gastric cancer (GC), label free quantification (LFQ)	Proteomics is a powerful approach to study the molecular mechanisms of cancer. In this study, we aim to characterize the proteomic profile of gastric cancer (GC) in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) type 2. Forty GC tissue samples including 19 cases from diabetic patients and 21 cases from individuals without diabetes (control group) were selected for the proteomics analysis. Gastric tissues were processed following the single-pot, solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation approach-SP3 and enzymatic digestion with trypsin. The resulting peptides were analyzed by LC-MS Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS). The comparison of protein expression levels between GC samples from diabetic and non-diabetic patients was performed by label-free quantification (LFQ). A total of 6599 protein groups were identified in the 40 samples. Thirty-seven proteins were differentially expressed among the two groups, with 16 upregulated and 21 downregulated in the diabetic cohort. Statistical overrepresentation tests were considered for different annotation sets including the Gene Ontology(GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), Reactome, and Disease functional databases. Upregulated proteins in the GC samples from diabetic patients were particularly enriched in respiratory electron transport and alcohol metabolic biological processes, while downregulated proteins were associated with epithelial cancers, intestinal diseases, and cell-cell junction cellular components. Taken together, these results support the data already obtained by previous studies that associate diabetes with metabolic disorders and diabetes-associated diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, and also provide valuable insights into seven GC-associated protein targets, claudin-3, polymeric immunoglobulin receptor protein, cadherin-17, villin-1, transglutaminase-2, desmoglein-2, and mucin-13, which warrant further investigation.
PXD023471	33495342	Loss of hepatic miR-33 improves metabolic homeostasis and liver function without altering body weight or atherosclerosis. 	Loss of hepatic miR-33 improves metabolic homeostasis and liver function without altering body weight or atherosclerosis	Mouse plasma	miR-33 is an intronic microRNA within the gene encoding the SREBP2 transcription factor. Like its host gene, miR-33 has been shown to be an important regulator of lipid metabolism. Inhibition of miR-33 has been shown to promote cholesterol efflux in macrophages by targeting the cholesterol transporter ABCA1, thus reducing atherosclerotic plaque burden. Inhibition of miR-33 has also been shown to improve high-density lipoprotein (HDL) biogenesis in the liver and increase circulating HDL-C levels in both rodents and nonhuman primates. However, evaluating the extent to which these changes in HDL metabolism contribute to atherogenesis has been hindered by the obesity and metabolic dysfunction observed in whole-body miR-33-knockout mice. To determine the impact of hepatic miR-33 deficiency on obesity, metabolic function, and atherosclerosis, we have generated a conditional knockout mouse model that lacks miR-33 only in the liver. Characterization of this model demonstrates that loss of miR-33 in the liver does not lead to increased body weight or adiposity. Hepatic miR-33 deficiency actually improves regulation of glucose homeostasis and impedes the development of fibrosis and inflammation. We further demonstrate that hepatic miR-33 deficiency increases circulating HDL-C levels and reverse cholesterol transport capacity in mice fed a chow diet, but these changes are not sufficient to reduce atherosclerotic plaque size under hyperlipidemic conditions. By elucidating the role of miR-33 in the liver and the impact of hepatic miR-33 deficiency on obesity and atherosclerosis, this work will help inform ongoing efforts to develop novel targeted therapies against cardiometabolic diseases.
PXD008534	33495358	Control of SRC molecular dynamics encodes distinct cytoskeletal responses by specifying signaling pathway usage. 	Time-resolved phosphotyrosine-proteome of Src signaling	Src, nanoLC-MS/MS, phosphotyrosine, signaling	Upon activation by different transmembrane receptors, the same signaling protein can induce distinct cellular responses. A way to decipher the mechanisms of such pleiotropic signaling activity is to directly manipulate the decision-making activity that supports the selection between distinct cellular responses. We developed an optogenetic probe (optoSRC) to control SRC signaling, an example of a pleiotropic signaling node, and we demonstrated its ability to generate different acto-adhesive structures (lamellipodia or invadosomes) upon distinct spatio-temporal control of SRC kinase activity. The occurrence of each acto-adhesive structure was simply dictated by the dynamics of optoSRC nanoclusters in adhesive sites, which were dependent on the SH3 and Unique domains of the protein. The different decision-making events regulated by optoSRC dynamics induced distinct downstream signaling pathways, which we characterized using time-resolved proteomic and network analyses. Collectively, by manipulating the molecular mobility of SRC kinase activity, these experiments reveal the pleiotropy-encoding mechanism of SRC signaling.
PXD022099	33495453	Pan-cancer analysis of transcripts encoding novel open-reading frames (nORFs) and their potential biological functions. 	C57BL/6J mice B and T cell LC-MSMS study	B cells, T cells, spleen	Uncharacterized and unannotated open-reading frames, which we refer to as novel open reading frames (nORFs), may sometimes encode peptides that remain unexplored for novel therapeutic opportunities. To our knowledge, no systematic identification and characterization of transcripts encoding nORFs or their translation products in cancer, or in any other physiological process has been performed. We use our curated nORFs database (nORFs.org), together with RNA-Seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Genotype-Expression (GTEx) consortiums, to identify transcripts containing nORFs that are expressed frequently in cancer or matched normal tissue across 22 cancer types. We show nORFs are subject to extensive dysregulation at the transcript level in cancer tissue and that a small subset of nORFs are associated with overall patient survival, suggesting that nORFs may have prognostic value. We also show that nORF products can form protein-like structures with post-translational modifications. Finally, we perform in silico screening for inhibitors against nORF-encoded proteins that are disrupted in stomach and esophageal cancer, showing that they can potentially be targeted by inhibitors. We hope this work will guide and motivate future studies that perform in-depth characterization of nORF functions in cancer and other diseases.
PXD014846	33497241	Dynamic Alteration in the Vaginal Secretory Proteome across the Early and Mid-Trimesters of Pregnancy. 	Vaginal secretory proteome dynamically changes across the early and mid-trimesters of pregnancy	Longitudinal study, SWATH MS, human vaginal fluid, pregnancy	Pregnancy is characterized by intense physiological and structural alterations in the vagina, cervix, and overlying fetal membranes. High vaginal fluid (HVF) is a proximal fluid that covers the lower part of the female reproductive system and the severity of vaginal pathology often adversely affects pregnancy outcomes. To identify the correlation of vaginal fluid proteome dynamics and physiological changes during the progression of pregnancy, a longitudinal study was performed on 20 pregnant women who delivered a baby in >37 weeks without any complications. SWATH-MS-based label-free quantitative proteomics was performed to profile the HVF proteome at three time points defined as V1 (7-12 weeks), V2 (18-20 weeks), and V3 (26-28 weeks). Linear mixed-effect models were used to estimate protein abundance as a function of the period of gestational age. In this study, we identified 1015 HVF proteins and 61 of them were significantly altered until late second trimester. Our result demonstrates that the HVF proteins reveal gestational age-specific expression patterns and the function of these proteins is associated with tissue remodeling, organ development, and microbial defense. Our study provides an opportunity to monitor the underlying physiology of pregnancy that may be further probed for the biomarker identification in pregnancy-related adverse outcomes. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD014846 and PXD021811.
PXD014888	33498438	Staphylococcus aureus Extracellular Vesicles: A Story of Toxicity and the Stress of 2020. 	Protein compositions of extracellular vesicles released from Staphylococcus aurues JE2 and its lgt mutant	Staphylococcus aureus, lgt, vesicle	Staphylococcus aureus generates and releases extracellular vesicles (EVs) that package cytosolic, cell-wall associated, and membrane proteins, as well as glycopolymers and exoproteins, including alpha hemolysin, leukocidins, phenol-soluble modulins, superantigens, and enzymes. S. aureus EVs, but not EVs from pore-forming toxin-deficient strains, were cytolytic for a variety of mammalian cell types, but EV internalization was not essential for cytotoxicity. Because S. aureus is subject to various environmental stresses during its encounters with the host during infection, we assessed how these exposures affected EV production in vitro. Staphylococci grown at 37 degreesC or 40 degreesC did not differ in EV production, but cultures incubated at 30 degreesC yielded more EVs when grown to the same optical density.S. aureus cultivated in the presence of oxidative stress, in iron-limited media, or with subinhibitory concentrations of ethanol, showed greater EV production as determined by protein yield and quantitative immunoblots. In contrast, hyperosmotic stress or subinhibitory concentrations of erythromycin reduced S. aureus EV yield. EVs represent a novel S. aureus secretory system that is affected by a variety of stress responses and allows the delivery of biologically active pore-forming toxins and other virulence determinants to host cells.
PXD022558	33498747	JAK-STAT Pathway Inhibition Partially Restores Intestinal Homeostasis in Hdac1- and Hdac2-Intestinal Epithelial Cell-Deficient Mice. 	Quantitative proteomic TandemMassTag analysis of intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) deleted for both Hdac1 and Hdac2	HDAC, Intestinal epithelial cell	We have previously reported that histone deacetylase epigenetic regulator Hdac1 and Hdac2 deletion in intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) disrupts mucosal tissue architecture and barrier, causing chronic inflammation. In this study, proteome and transcriptome analysis revealed the importance of signaling pathways induced upon genetic IEC-Hdac1 and Hdac2 deletion. Indeed, Gene Ontology biological process analysis of enriched deficient IEC RNA and proteins identified common pathways, including lipid metabolic and oxidation-reduction process, cell adhesion, and antigen processing and presentation, related to immune responses, correlating with dysregulation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes. Top upstream regulators included regulators associated with environmental sensing pathways to xenobiotics, microbial and diet-derived ligands, and endogenous metabolites. Proteome analysis revealed mTOR signaling IEC-specific defects. In addition to mTOR, the STAT and Notch pathways were dysregulated specifically in jejunal IEC. To determine the impact of pathway dysregulation on mutant jejunum alterations, we treated mutant mice with Tofacitinib, a JAK inhibitor. Treatment with the inhibitor partially corrected proliferation and tight junction defects, as well as niche stabilization by increasing Paneth cell numbers. Thus, IEC-specific histone deacetylases 1 (HDAC1) and 2 (HDAC2) support intestinal homeostasis by regulating survival and translation processes, as well as differentiation and metabolic pathways. HDAC1 and HDAC2 may play an important role in the regulation of IEC-specific inflammatory responses by controlling, directly or indirectly, the JAK/STAT pathway. IEC-specific JAK/STAT pathway deregulation may be, at least in part, responsible for intestinal homeostasis disruption in mutant mice.
PXD022891	33499602	Automated 16-Plex Plasma Proteomics with Real-Time Search and Ion Mobility Mass Spectrometry Enables Large-Scale Profiling in Naked Mole-Rats and Mice. 	Automated 16plex plasma proteomics with real-time search and ion mobility mass spectrometry enables large scale profiling in naked mole-rats and mice.	Mouse and Naked-Mole Rat Plasma	Performing large-scale plasma proteome profiling is challenging due to limitations imposed by lengthy preparation and instrument time. We present a fully automated multiplexed proteome profiling platform (AutoMP3) using the Hamilton Vantage liquid handling robot capable of preparing hundreds to thousands of samples. To maximize protein depth in single-shot runs, we combined 16-plex Tandem Mass Tags (TMTpro) with high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS Pro) and real-time search (RTS). We quantified over 40 proteins/min/sample, doubling the previously published rates. We applied AutoMP3 to investigate the naked mole-rat plasma proteome both as a function of the circadian cycle and in response to ultraviolet (UV) treatment. In keeping with the lack of synchronized circadian rhythms in naked mole-rats, we find few circadian patterns in plasma proteins over the course of 48 h. Furthermore, we quantify many disparate changes between mice and naked mole-rats at both 48 h and one week after UV exposure. These species differences in plasma protein temporal responses could contribute to the pronounced cancer resistance observed in naked mole-rats. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE [1] partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD022891.
PXD020182	33500333	PERK inhibition attenuates vascular remodeling in pulmonary arterial hypertension caused by BMPR2 mutation. 	Proteome analysis of BMPR2 mutation PASMCs	PASMCs, PERK deletion, hypoxia	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a fatal disease characterized by excessive pulmonary vascular remodeling. However, despite advances in therapeutic strategies, patients with PAH bearing mutations in the bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2 (BMPR2)-encoding gene present severe phenotypes and outcomes. We sought to investigate the effect of PER-like kinase (PERK), which participates in one of three major pathways associated with the unfolded protein response (UPR), on PAH pathophysiology in BMPR2 heterozygous mice. BMPR2 heterozygosity in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) decreased the abundance of the antiapoptotic microRNA miR124-3p through the arm of the UPR mediated by PERK. Hypoxia promoted the accumulation of unfolded proteins in BMPR2 heterozygous PASMCs, resulting in increased PERK signaling, cell viability, cellular proliferation, and glycolysis. Proteomic analyses revealed that PERK ablation suppressed PDGFRbeta-STAT1 signaling and glycolysis in hypoxic BMPR2 heterozygous PASMCs. Furthermore, PERK ablation or PERK inhibition ameliorated pulmonary vascular remodeling in the Sugen/chronic hypoxia model of PAH, irrespective of BMPR2 status. Hence, these findings suggest that PERK inhibition is a promising therapeutic strategy for patients with PAH with or without BMPR2 mutation.
PXD017936	33501852	Influenza Causes MLKL-Driven Cardiac Proteome Remodeling During Convalescence. 	Quantitative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses of MLKL -/- mouse heart in response to influenza virus infection	Heart, MLKL, Quantitative proteomics, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	RATIONALE: Patients with and without cardiovascular diseases have been shown to be at risk of influenza-mediated cardiac complications. Recent clinical reports support the notion of a direct link between laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infections and adverse cardiac events. OBJECTIVE: Define the molecular mechanisms underlying influenza virus-induced cardiac pathogenesis after resolution of pulmonary infection and the role of necroptosis in this process. METHODS AND RESULTS: Hearts from wild-type and necroptosis-deficient (MLKL [mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein]-KO) mice were dissected 12 days after initial influenza A virus (IAV) infection when viral titers were undetectable in the lungs. Immunofluorescence microscopy and plaque assays showed presence of viable IAV particles in the myocardium without generation of interferon responses. Global proteome and phosphoproteome analyses using high-resolution accurate mass-based LC-MS/MS and label-free quantitation showed that the global proteome as well as the phosphoproteome profiles were significantly altered in IAV-infected mouse hearts in a strain-independent manner. Necroptosis-deficient mice had increased survival and reduced weight loss post-IAV infection, as well as increased antioxidant and mitochondrial function, indicating partial protection to IAV infection. These findings were confirmed in vitro by pretreatment of human and rat myocytes with antioxidants or necroptosis inhibitors, which blunted oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage after IAV infection. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the first evidence that the cardiac proteome and phosphoproteome are significantly altered post-pulmonary influenza infection. Moreover, viral particles can persist in the heart after lung clearance, altering mitochondrial function and promoting cell death without active replication and interferon responses. Finally, our findings show inhibition of necroptosis or prevention of mitochondrial damage as possible therapeutic interventions to reduce cardiac damage during influenza infections. Graphic Abstract: A graphic abstract is available for this article.
PXD018218	33502086	Causal integration of multi-omics data with prior knowledge to generate mechanistic hypotheses. 	Causal integration of multi-omics data with prior knowledge to generate mechanistic hypotheses	Kidney, Phosphorylation, Q Exactive HF-X	Multi-omics datasets can provide molecular insights beyond the sum of individual omics. Various tools have been recently developed to integrate such datasets, but there are limited strategies to systematically extract mechanistic hypotheses from them. Here, we present COSMOS (Causal Oriented Search of Multi-Omics Space), a method that integrates phosphoproteomics, transcriptomics, and metabolomics datasets. COSMOS combines extensive prior knowledge of signaling, metabolic, and gene regulatory networks with computational methods to estimate activities of transcription factors and kinases as well as network-level causal reasoning. COSMOS provides mechanistic hypotheses for experimental observations across multi-omics datasets. We applied COSMOS to a dataset comprising transcriptomics, phosphoproteomics, and metabolomics data from healthy and cancerous tissue from eleven clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) patients. COSMOS was able to capture relevant crosstalks within and between multiple omics layers, such as known ccRCC drug targets. We expect that our freely available method will be broadly useful to extract mechanistic insights from multi-omics studies.
PXD013842	33503430	Global non-covalent SUMO interaction networks reveal SUMO-dependent stabilization of the non-homologous end joining complex. 	A screen to indentify non-covalent isotype-specific SUMO binders	SUMO interaction motif, SUMO1, SUMO2	In contrast to our extensive knowledge on covalent small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) target proteins, we are limited in our understanding of non-covalent SUMO-binding proteins. We identify interactors of different SUMO isoforms-monomeric SUMO1, monomeric SUMO2, or linear trimeric SUMO2 chains-using a mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach. We identify 379 proteins that bind to different SUMO isoforms, mainly in a preferential manner. Interestingly, XRCC4 is the only DNA repair protein in our screen with a preference for SUMO2 trimers over mono-SUMO2, as well as the only protein in our screen that belongs to the non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) DNA double-strand break repair pathway. A SUMO interaction motif (SIM) in XRCC4 regulates its recruitment to sites of DNA damage and phosphorylation of S320 by DNA-PKcs. Our data highlight the importance of non-covalent and covalent sumoylation for DNA double-strand break repair via the NHEJ pathway and provide a resource of SUMO isoform interactors.
PXD018523	33505370	Novel Extracellular Electron Transfer Channels in a Gram-Positive Thermophilic Bacterium. 	extracellular electron transfer channels in Carboxydothermus ferrireducens	Gram-positive bacteria, extracellular electron transfer, multiheme cytochromes, novel oxidoreductases, thermophiles	Biogenic transformation of Fe minerals, associated with extracellular electron transfer (EET), allows microorganisms to exploit high-potential refractory electron acceptors for energy generation. EET-capable thermophiles are dominated by hyperthermophilic archaea and Gram-positive bacteria. Information on their EET pathways is sparse. Here, we describe EET channels in the thermophilic Gram-positive bacterium Carboxydothermus ferrireducens that drive exoelectrogenesis and rapid conversion of amorphous mineral ferrihydrite to large magnetite crystals. Microscopic studies indicated biocontrolled formation of unusual formicary-like ultrastructure of the magnetite crystals and revealed active colonization of anodes in bioelectrochemical systems (BESs) by C. ferrireducens. The internal structure of micron-scale biogenic magnetite crystals is reported for the first time. Genome analysis and expression profiling revealed three constitutive c-type multiheme cytochromes involved in electron exchange with ferrihydrite or an anode, sharing insignificant homology with previously described EET-related cytochromes thus representing novel determinants of EET. Our studies identify these cytochromes as extracellular and reveal potentially novel mechanisms of cell-to-mineral interactions in thermal environments.
PXD021381	33507751	Hybrid QconCAT-Based Targeted Absolute and Data-Independent Acquisition-Based Label-Free Quantification Enables In-Depth Proteomic Characterization of Wheat Amylase/Trypsin Inhibitor Extracts. 	Hybrid QconCAT-based Targeted Absolute and Data-independent Acquisition-based Label-free Quantification Enables In-depth Proteomic Characterization of Wheat ATI Extracts	ATI, Absolute Quantification, Amylase-Trypsin Inhibitor, DIA, Data-independent Acquisition, Microflow LC-MS, QconCAT, Triticum, Wheat	Wheat amylase/trypsin inhibitors (ATIs) have gained significant relevance as inducers of intestinal and extra-intestinal inflammation. In this study, we present a novel hybrid data-independent acquisition (DIA) liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) approach, combining QconCAT technology with short microflow LC gradients and DIA and apply the method toward the quantitative proteome analysis of ATI extracts. The presented method is fast, robust, and reproducible and provides precise QconCAT-based absolute quantification of major ATI proteins while simultaneously quantifying the proteome by label-free quantification (LFQ). We analyzed extracts of 60 varieties of common wheat grown in replication and evaluated the reproducibility and precision of the workflow for the quantification of ATIs. Applying the method to analyze different wheat species (i.e., common wheat, spelt, durum wheat, emmer, and einkorn) and comparing the results to published data, we validated inter-laboratory and cross-methodology reproducibility of ATI quantification, which is essential in the context of large-scale breeding projects. Additionally, we applied our workflow to assess environmental effects on ATI expression, analyzing ATI content and proteome of same varieties grown at different locations. Finally, we explored the potential of combining QconCAT-based absolute quantification with DIA-based LFQ proteome analysis for the generation of new hypotheses or assay development.
PXD021857	33509940	High-Density, Targeted Monitoring of Tyrosine Phosphorylation Reveals Activated Signaling Networks in Human Tumors. 	High-density monitoring of tyrosine phosphorylation signaling targets in human tumors using internal standard triggered targeted quantitation	Targeted, cancer, colorectal, phosphorylation, signaling	Tyrosine phosphorylation (pTyr) plays a pivotal role in signal transduction and is commonly dysregulated in cancer. As a result, profiling tumor pTyr levels may reveal therapeutic insights critical to combating disease. Existing discovery and targeted mass spectrometry-based methods used to monitor pTyr networks involve a tradeoff between broad coverage of the pTyr network, reproducibility in target identification across analyses, and accurate quantification. To address these limitations, we developed a targeted approach, termed "SureQuant pTyr," coupling low input pTyr enrichment with a panel of isotopically labeled internal standard peptides to guide data acquisition of low-abundance tyrosine phosphopeptides. SureQuant pTyr allowed for reliable quantification of several hundred commonly dysregulated pTyr targets with high quantitative accuracy, improving the robustness and usability of targeted mass spectrometry assays. We established the clinical applicability of SureQuant pTyr by profiling pTyr signaling levels in human colorectal tumors using minimal sample input, characterizing patient-specific oncogenic-driving mechanisms. While in some cases pTyr profiles aligned with previously reported proteomic, genomic, and transcriptomic molecular characterizations, we highlighted instances of new insights gained using pTyr characterization and emphasized the complementary nature of pTyr measurements with traditional biomarkers for improving patient stratification and identifying therapeutic targets. The turn-key nature of this approach opens the door to rapid and reproducible pTyr profiling in research and clinical settings alike and enables pTyr-based measurements for applications in precision medicine. SIGNIFICANCE: SureQuant pTyr is a mass spectrometry-based targeted method that enables sensitive and selective targeted quantitation of several hundred low-abundance tyrosine phosphorylated peptides commonly dysregulated in cancer, including oncogenic signaling networks.
PXD021030	33510940	Long noncoding RNA SMUL suppresses SMURF2 production-mediated muscle atrophy via nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. 	Nano-HPLC-MS/MS analysis for proteins encoded by circRNA in myoblasts and myotubes	MS/MS spectra, circRNA, myoblasts and myotubes., myogenesis	As the world population grows, muscle atrophy leading to muscle wasting could become a bigger risk. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are known to play important roles in muscle growth and muscle atrophy. Meanwhile, it has recently come to light that many putative small open reading frames (sORFs) are hidden in lncRNAs; however, their translational capabilities and functions remain unclear. In this study, we uncovered 104 myogenic-associated lncRNAs translated, in at least a small peptide, by integrated transcriptome and proteomic analyses. Furthermore, an upstream ORF (uORF) regulatory network was constructed, and a novel muscle atrophy-associated lncRNA named SMUL (Smad ubiquitin regulatory factor 2 [SMURF2] upstream lncRNA) was identified. SMUL was highly expressed in skeletal muscle, and its expression level was downregulated during myoblast differentiation. SMUL promoted myoblast proliferation and suppressed differentiation in vitro. In vivo, SMUL induced skeletal muscle atrophy and promoted a switch from slow-twitch to fast-twitch fibers. In the meantime, translation of the SMUL sORF disrupted the stability of SMURF2 mRNA. Mechanistically, SMUL restrained SMURF2 production via nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), participating in the regulation of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta)/SMAD pathway and further regulating myogenesis and muscle atrophy. Taken together, these results suggest that SMUL could be a novel therapeutic target for muscle atrophy.
PXD019212	33511977	Serum proteome profiling provides a deep understanding of the 'gut-liver axis' in relation to liver injury and regeneration. 	Serum proteome profiling provides a deep understanding of the "gut-liver axis" in relation to liver injury and regeneration	Gut-liver axis, hepatic portal vein serum, intestinal flora disorder, liver regeneration	The gut-liver axis is one of the major contributors to the transport of products from the intestine or intestinal microbes with the progression of liver regeneration. However, the influence of proteins from the hepatic portal vein (HPV), the bridge of enterohepatic circulation, on liver regeneration is unclear. For first time, we applied a quantitative proteomics approach to characterize the molecular pathology of the HPV sera of mice with antibiotic-induced intestinal flora disorder during acute liver injury. The biological processes of lipid metabolism and wound healing were enriched in the HPV of mice with intestinal flora disorder, whereas energy metabolism, liver regeneration, and cytoskeletal processes were downregulated. Moreover, 95 and 35 proteins potentially promoting or inhibiting liver regeneration, respectively, were identified in HPV serum. Our findings will be beneficial to liver donors during liver transplantation.
PXD023251	33513345	Stanniocalcin 1 is a phagocytosis checkpoint driving tumor immune resistance. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of proteins interacting with STC1	B16-F10 tumor cells, IP, MS, STC1	Immunotherapy induces durable clinical responses in a fraction of patients with cancer. However, therapeutic resistance poses a major challenge to current immunotherapies. Here, we identify that expression of tumor stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) correlates with immunotherapy efficacy and is negatively associated with patient survival across diverse cancer types. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments demonstrate that tumor STC1 supports tumor progression and enables tumor resistance to checkpoint blockade in murine tumor models. Mechanistically, tumor STC1 interacts with calreticulin (CRT), an "eat-me" signal, and minimizes CRT membrane exposure, thereby abrogating membrane CRT-directed phagocytosis by antigen-presenting cells (APCs), including macrophages and dendritic cells. Consequently, this impairs APC capacity of antigen presentation and T cell activation. Thus, tumor STC1 inhibits APC phagocytosis and contributes to tumor immune evasion and immunotherapy resistance. We suggest that STC1 is a previously unappreciated phagocytosis checkpoint and targeting STC1 and its interaction with CRT may sensitize to cancer immunotherapy.
PXD021438	33513391	Identification of sulfenylation patterns in trophozoite stage Plasmodium falciparum using a non-dimedone based probe. 	Identification of sulfenylation patterns in Plasmodium falciparum using a non-dimedone based probe	9-hydroxymethylbicyclo[6.1.0]nonyne (BCN-Bio1), Sulfenylation, cysteine modification, malaria, post-translational modification, redox  proteomics	Plasmodium falciparum causes the deadliest form of malaria. Adequate redox control is crucial for this protozoan parasite to overcome oxidative and nitrosative challenges, thus enabling its survival. Sulfenylation is an oxidative post-translational modification, which acts as a molecular on/off switch, regulating protein activity. To obtain a better understanding of which proteins are redox regulated in malaria parasites, we established an optimized affinity capture protocol coupled with mass spectrometry analysis for identification of in vivo sulfenylated proteins. The non-dimedone based probe BCN-Bio1 shows reaction rates over 100-times that of commonly used dimedone-based probes, allowing for a rapid trapping of sulfenylated proteins. Mass spectrometry analysis of BCN-Bio1 labeled proteins revealed the first insight into the Plasmodium falciparum trophozoite sulfenylome, identifying 102 proteins containing 152 sulfenylation sites. Comparison with Plasmodium proteins modified by S-glutathionylation and S-nitrosation showed a high overlap, suggesting a common core of proteins undergoing redox regulation by multiple mechanisms. Furthermore, parasite proteins which were identified as targets for sulfenylation were also identified as being sulfenylated in other organisms, especially proteins of the glycolytic cycle. This study suggests that a number of Plasmodium proteins are subject to redox regulation and it provides a basis for further investigations into the exact structural and biochemical basis of regulation, and a deeper understanding of cross-talk between post-translational modifications.
PXD021925	33513762	LPS Tolerance Inhibits Cellular Respiration and Induces Global Changes in the Macrophage Secretome. 	LPS Tolerance inhibits cellular respiration and induces global changes in the secretome	LPS Tolerance, Macrophages, RAW 264.7, Secretome	Inflammatory response plays an essential role in the resolution of infections. However, inflammation can be detrimental to an organism and cause irreparable damage. For example, during sepsis, a cytokine storm can lead to multiple organ failures and often results in death. One of the strongest triggers of the inflammatory response is bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS), acting mostly through Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). Paradoxically, while exposure to LPS triggers a robust inflammatory response, repeated or prolonged exposure to LPS can induce a state of endotoxin tolerance, a phenomenon where macrophages and monocytes do not respond to new endotoxin challenges, and it is often associated with secondary infections and negative outcomes. The cellular mechanisms regulating this phenomenon remain elusive. We used metabolic measurements to confirm differences in the cellular metabolism of naive macrophages and that of macrophages responding to LPS stimulation or those in the LPS-tolerant state. In parallel, we performed an unbiased secretome survey using quantitative mass spectrometry during the induction of LPS tolerance, creating the first comprehensive secretome profile of endotoxin-tolerant cells. The secretome changes confirmed that LPS-tolerant macrophages have significantly decreased cellular metabolism and that the proteins secreted by LPS-tolerant macrophages have a strong association with cell survival, protein metabolism, and the metabolism of reactive oxygen species.
PXD020332	33514311	The skeletome of the red coral Corallium rubrum indicates an independent evolution of biomineralization process in octocorals. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of Corallium rubrum biominerals	Corallium rubrum, axial skeleton, organic matrix, sclerites	BACKGROUND: The process of calcium carbonate biomineralization has arisen multiple times during metazoan evolution. In the phylum Cnidaria, biomineralization has mostly been studied in the subclass Hexacorallia (i.e. stony corals) in comparison to the subclass Octocorallia (i.e. red corals); the two diverged approximately 600 million years ago. The precious Mediterranean red coral, Corallium rubrum, is an octocorallian species, which produces two distinct high-magnesium calcite biominerals, the axial skeleton and the sclerites. In order to gain insight into the red coral biomineralization process and cnidarian biomineralization evolution, we studied the protein repertoire forming the organic matrix (OM) of its two biominerals. RESULTS: We combined High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry and transcriptome analysis to study the OM composition of the axial skeleton and the sclerites. We identified a total of 102 OM proteins, 52 are found in the two red coral biominerals with scleritin being the most abundant protein in each fraction. Contrary to reef building corals, the red coral organic matrix possesses a large number of collagen-like proteins. Agrin-like glycoproteins and proteins with sugar-binding domains are also predominant. Twenty-seven and 23 proteins were uniquely assigned to the axial skeleton and the sclerites, respectively. The inferred regulatory function of these OM proteins suggests that the difference between the two biominerals is due to the modeling of the matrix network, rather than the presence of specific structural components. At least one OM component could have been horizontally transferred from prokaryotes early during Octocorallia evolution. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that calcification of the red coral axial skeleton likely represents a secondary calcification of an ancestral gorgonian horny axis. In addition, the comparison with stony coral skeletomes highlighted the low proportion of similar proteins between the biomineral OMs of hexacorallian and octocorallian corals, suggesting an independent acquisition of calcification in anthozoans.
PXD023301	33514370	Change in the plasma proteome associated with canine cognitive dysfunction syndrome (CCDS) in Thailand. 	Change in the plasma proteome associated with canine cognitive dysfunction syndrome (CCDS) in Thailand	Amyloid beta 42, Canine cognitive dysfunction syndrome	BACKGROUND: Canine cognitive dysfunction syndrome (CCDS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder found in senior dogs. Due to the lack of biological markers, CCDS is commonly underdiagnosed. The aim of this study was to identify potential plasma biomarkers using proteomics techniques and to increase our understanding of the pathogenic mechanism of the disease. Plasma amyloid beta 42 (Abeta42) has been seen to be a controversial biomarker for CCDS. Proteomics analysis was performed for protein identification and quantification. RESULTS: Within CCDS, ageing, and adult dogs, 87 proteins were identified specific to Canis spp. in the plasma samples. Of 87 proteins, 48 and 41 proteins were changed in the ageing and adult groups, respectively. Several distinctly expressed plasma proteins identified in CCDS were involved in complement and coagulation cascades and the apolipoprotein metabolism pathway. Plasma Abeta42 levels considerably overlapped within the CCDS and ageing groups. In the adult group, the Abeta42 level was low compared with that in the other groups. Nevertheless, plasma Abeta42 did not show a correlation with the Canine Cognitive Dysfunction Rating scale (CCDR) score in the CCDS group (p = 0.131, R(2) = 0.261). CONCLUSIONS: Our present findings suggest that plasma Abeta42 does not show potential for use as a diagnostic biomarker in CCDS. The nano-LC-MS/MS data revealed that the predictive underlying mechanism of CCDS was the co-occurrence of inflammation-mediated acute phase response proteins and complement and coagulation cascades that partly functioned by apolipoproteins and lipid metabolism. Some of the differentially expressed proteins may serve as potential predictor biomarkers along with Abeta42 in plasma for improved CCDS diagnosis. Further study in larger population-based cohort study is required in validation to define the correlation between protein expression and the pathogenesis of CCDS.
PXD014719	33514588	NODAL/TGFbeta signalling mediates the self-sustained stemness induced by PIK3CAH1047R homozygosity in pluripotent stem cells. 	High-dose oncogenic PIK3CA drives constitutive cellular stemness through increased NODAL/TGFb signaling	NODAL iPSC, PIK3CA, TFGb, cancer, transcriptomics	Activating PIK3CA mutations are known 'drivers' of human cancer and developmental overgrowth syndromes. We recently demonstrated that the 'hotspot' PIK3CAH1047R variant exerts unexpected allele dose-dependent effects on stemness in human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs). In this study, we combine high-depth transcriptomics, total proteomics and reverse-phase protein arrays to reveal potentially disease-related alterations in heterozygous cells, and to assess the contribution of activated TGFbeta signalling to the stemness phenotype of homozygous PIK3CAH1047R cells. We demonstrate signalling rewiring as a function of oncogenic PI3K signalling strength, and provide experimental evidence that self-sustained stemness is causally related to enhanced autocrine NODAL/TGFbeta signalling. A significant transcriptomic signature of TGFbeta pathway activation in heterozygous PIK3CAH1047R was observed but was modest and was not associated with the stemness phenotype seen in homozygous mutants. Notably, the stemness gene expression in homozygous PIK3CAH1047R hPSCs was reversed by pharmacological inhibition of NODAL/TGFbeta signalling, but not by pharmacological PI3Kalpha pathway inhibition. Altogether, this provides the first in-depth analysis of PI3K signalling in hPSCs and directly links strong PI3K activation to developmental NODAL/TGFbeta signalling. This work illustrates the importance of allele dosage and expression when artificial systems are used to model human genetic disease caused by activating PIK3CA mutations. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD023073	33514717	NeissLock provides an inducible protein anhydride for covalent targeting of endogenous proteins. 	NeissLock: an inducible protein anhydride for covalent targeting of endogenous proteins	Chemical biology, Nanoassembly, Protein conjugation, Protein engineering, Proximity labeling, Synthetic biology	The Neisseria meningitidis protein FrpC contains a self-processing module (SPM) undergoing autoproteolysis via an aspartic anhydride. Herein, we establish NeissLock, using a binding protein genetically fused to SPM. Upon calcium triggering of SPM, the anhydride at the C-terminus of the binding protein allows nucleophilic attack by its target protein, ligating the complex. We establish a computational tool to search the Protein Data Bank, assessing proximity of amines to C-termini. We optimize NeissLock using the Ornithine Decarboxylase/Antizyme complex. Various sites on the target (alpha-amine or epsilon-amines) react with the anhydride, but reaction is blocked if the partner does not dock. Ligation is efficient at pH 7.0, with half-time less than 2 min. We arm Transforming Growth Factor-alpha with SPM, enabling specific covalent coupling to Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor at the cell-surface. NeissLock harnesses distinctive protein chemistry for high-yield covalent targeting of endogenous proteins, advancing the possibilities for molecular engineering.
PXD019730	33515573	Snake venom color and L-amino acid oxidase: An evidence of long-term captive Crotalus durissus terrificus venom plasticity. 	Snake venom color and LAAO: an evidence of long-term captive Crotalus durissus terrificus venom plasticity	Crotalus durissus terrificus, L-amino acid oxidase., captivity maintenance, intraspecific venom variability, snake venom, snake venom plasticity	The venom color variation of Crotalus durissus terrificus (Cdt) is attributed to the presence of the toxin L-amino acid oxidase (LAAO). During the venom milking routine of Instituto Butantan, we have noticed that most venoms of captive Cdt specimens show a yellowish color, while most venoms of wild specimens are white. Here we describe a comparative analysis of long-term captive (LTC) and recently wild-caught (RWC) Cdt, focusing on LAAO variation. For the identification of LAAO in individual venoms, four different approaches were employed: evaluation of the enzymatic activity, SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, and ELISA. In addition, mass spectrometry analysis was performed using pooled samples. Although some variation among these methodologies was observed, it was possible to notice that the presence of LAAO was significantly higher in the venom of LTC individuals. LAAO was identified in 60-80% LTC specimens and in only 10-12% of RWC specimens. Furthermore, this enzyme accounts for 5.6% of total venom proteins of LTC Cdt pooled venom, while it corresponds to only 0.7% of RWC Cdt pooled venom. These findings strongly suggest that captive maintenance increases the expression of LAAO in Cdt venom.
PXD023391	33516941	Dynamic Changes to the Skeletal Muscle Proteome and Ubiquitinome Induced by the E3 Ligase, ASB2beta. 	ASB2 interactome in C2C12 cells	ASB2, E3 ligase, protein interactions	Ubiquitination is a posttranslational protein modification that has been shown to have a range of effects, including regulation of protein function, interaction, localization, and degradation. We have previously shown that the muscle-specific ubiquitin E3 ligase, ASB2beta, is downregulated in models of muscle growth and that overexpression ASB2beta is sufficient to induce muscle atrophy. To gain insight into the effects of increased ASB2beta expression on skeletal muscle mass and function, we used liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry to investigate ASB2beta-mediated changes to the skeletal muscle proteome and ubiquitinome, via a parallel analysis of remnant diGly-modified peptides. The results show that viral vector-mediated ASB2beta overexpression in murine muscles causes progressive muscle atrophy and impairment of force-producing capacity, while ASB2beta knockdown induces mild muscle hypertrophy. ASB2beta-induced muscle atrophy and dysfunction were associated with the early downregulation of mitochondrial and contractile protein abundance and the upregulation of proteins involved in proteasome-mediated protein degradation (including other E3 ligases), protein synthesis, and the cytoskeleton/sarcomere. The overexpression ASB2beta also resulted in marked changes in protein ubiquitination; however, there was no simple relationship between changes in ubiquitination status and protein abundance. To investigate proteins that interact with ASB2beta and, therefore, potential ASB2beta targets, Flag-tagged wild-type ASB2beta, and a mutant ASB2beta lacking the C-terminal SOCS box domain (dSOCS) were immunoprecipitated from C2C12 myotubes and subjected to label-free proteomic analysis to determine the ASB2beta interactome. ASB2beta was found to interact with a range of cytoskeletal and nuclear proteins. When combined with the in vivo ubiquitinomic data, our studies have identified novel putative ASB2beta target substrates that warrant further investigation. These findings provide novel insight into the complexity of proteome and ubiquitinome changes that occur during E3 ligase-mediated skeletal muscle atrophy and dysfunction.
PXD020899	33520998	Integrative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses of Granulosa Cells During Follicular Atresia in Porcine. 	Integrative analysis of proteomic and phosphoproteomic of granulosa cells during follicular atresia in porcine	Porcine, follicular atresia, granulosa cell, phosphoproteomic	Ovarian follicular atresia is a natural physiological process; however, the mechanism is not fully understood. In this study, quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of granulosa cells (GCs) in healthy (H), slightly atretic (SA), and atretic follicles (A) of porcine were performed by TMT labeling, enrichment of phosphopeptides, and liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. In total, 6,201 proteins were quantified, and 4,723 phosphorylation sites of 1,760 proteins were quantified. In total, 24 (11 up, 13 down) and 50 (29 up, 21 down) proteins with a fold change (FC) > 5 were identified in H/SA and H/A, respectively. In addition, there were 20 (H/SA, up) and 39 (H/A, up) phosphosites with an FC > 7 that could serve as potential biomarkers for distinguishing different quality categories of follicles. Western blotting and immunofluorescence confirmed the reliability of the proteomic analysis. Some key proteins (e.g., MIF, beta catenin, integrin beta2), phosphosites (e.g., S76 of caspase6, S22 and S636 of lamin A/C), pathways (e.g., apoptosis, regulation of actin cytoskeleton pathway), transcription factors (e.g., STAT5A, FOXO1, and BCLAF1), and kinases (e.g., PBK, CDK5, CDK12, and AKT3) involved in the atresia process were revealed via further analysis of the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and phosphorylated proteins (DEPPs). Further study showed that mutant caspase6 Ser76 to Ala increased the ratios of cleaved caspase6/caspase6 and cleaved caspase3/caspase3 and dephosphorylation of caspase6 at Ser76 increased cell apoptotic rate, a new potential pathway of follicular atresia. Collectively, the proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling and functional research in the current study comprehensively analyzed the dynamic changes in protein expression and phosphorylation during follicular atresia and provided some new explanations regarding the regulation of this process.
PXD021424	33521034	Analysis of Human Faecal Host Proteins: Responsiveness to 10-Week Dietary Intervention Modifying Dietary Protein Intake in Elderly Males. 	Differences in the self proteome of human feaces with different dietary protein.	Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), feaces, protein diet, proteins	Faecal proteomics targeting biomarkers of immunity and inflammation have demonstrated clinical application for the identification of changes in gastrointestinal function. However, there are limited comprehensive analyses of the host faecal proteome and how it may be influenced by dietary factors. To examine this, the Homo sapiens post-diet proteome of older males was analysed at the completion of a 10-week dietary intervention, either meeting the minimum dietary protein recommendations (RDA; n = 9) or twice the recommended dietary allowance (2RDA, n = 10). The host faecal proteome differed markedly between individuals, with only a small subset of proteins present in >= 60% of subjects (14 and 44 proteins, RDA and 2RDA, respectively, with only 7 common to both groups). No differences were observed between the diet groups on the profiles of host faecal proteins. Faecal proteins were detected from a wide range of protein classes, with high inter-individual variation and absence of obvious impact in response to diets with markedly different protein intake. This suggests that well-matched whole food diets with two-fold variation in protein intake maintained for 10 weeks have minimal impact on human faecal host proteins.
PXD018138	33522307	Upregulation of ETV2 Expression Promotes Endothelial Differentiation of Human Dental Pulp Stem Cells. 	The proteomics analysis of ETV2-overexpressing dental pulp stem cells	ETV2, angiogenesis, dental pulp stem cells, endothelial differentiation	The lack of vasculogenesis often hampers the survivability and integration of newly engineered tissue grafts within the host. Autologous endothelial cells (ECs) are an ideal cell source for neovascularization, but they are limited by their scarcity, lack of proliferative capacity, and donor site morbidity upon isolation. The objective of this study was to determine whether differentiation of human dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) into the endothelial lineage can be enhanced by recombinant ETV2 overexpression. DPSCs were extracted from fresh dental pulp tissues. ETV2 overexpression in DPSCs was achieved by lentiviral infection and cellular morphological changes were evaluated. The mRNA and protein expression levels of endothelial-specific markers were assessed through quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blot, immunofluorescence staining, and flow cytometry. The tube formation assay and Matrigel plug assay were also performed to evaluate the angiogenic potential of the ETV2-transduced cells in vitro and in vivo, respectively. Additionally, proteomic analysis was performed to analyze global changes in protein expression following ETV2 overexpression. After lentiviral infection, ETV2-overexpressing DPSCs showed endothelial-like morphology. Compared with control DPSCs, significantly higher mRNA and protein expression levels of endothelial-specific genes, including CD31, VE-Cadherin, VEGFR1, and VEGFR2, were detected in ETV2-overexpressing DPSCs. Moreover, ETV2 overexpression enhanced capillary-like tube formation on Matrigel in vitro, as well as neovascularization in vivo. In addition, comparative proteomic profiling showed that ETV2 overexpression upregulated the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors, which was indicative of increased VEGF signaling. Taken together, our results indicate that ETV2 overexpression significantly enhanced the endothelial differentiation of DPSCs. Thus, this study shows that DPSCs can be a promising candidate cell source for tissue engineering applications.
PXD021637	33523861	Trisomy 21-induced dysregulation of microglial homeostasis in Alzheimer's brains is mediated by USP25. 	The TMT-based quantitative proteomics of 5FAD_Usp25 knockout mouse	5FAD, TMT, Usp25 knockout	Down syndrome (DS), caused by trisomy of chromosome 21, is the most significant risk factor for early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, underlying mechanisms linking DS and AD remain unclear. Here, we show that triplication of homologous chromosome 21 genes aggravates neuroinflammation in combined murine DS-AD models. Overexpression of USP25, a deubiquitinating enzyme encoded by chromosome 21, results in microglial activation and induces synaptic and cognitive deficits, whereas genetic ablation of Usp25 reduces neuroinflammation and rescues synaptic and cognitive function in 5xFAD mice. Mechanistically, USP25 deficiency attenuates microglia-mediated proinflammatory cytokine overproduction and synapse elimination. Inhibition of USP25 reestablishes homeostatic microglial signatures and restores synaptic and cognitive function in 5xFAD mice. In summary, we demonstrate an unprecedented role for trisomy 21 and pathogenic effects associated with microgliosis as a result of the increased USP25 dosage, implicating USP25 as a therapeutic target for neuroinflammation in DS and AD.
PXD020402	33523887	Structures of Rhodopseudomonas palustris RC-LH1 complexes with open or closed quinone channels. 	Proteomic comparison of photosynthetic reaction centre-light harvesting 1 complexes in wild-type, protein-W knockout and His-tagged protein-W strains of Rhodopseudomonas palustris.	LH1-alpha, LH1-beta, Rhodopseudomonas palustris, photosynthetic reaction centre-light harvesting 1 complex, protein-W	The reaction-center light-harvesting complex 1 (RC-LH1) is the core photosynthetic component in purple phototrophic bacteria. We present two cryo-electron microscopy structures of RC-LH1 complexes from Rhodopseudomonas palustris A 2.65-Aa resolution structure of the RC-LH114-W complex consists of an open 14-subunit LH1 ring surrounding the RC interrupted by protein-W, whereas the complex without protein-W at 2.80-Aa resolution comprises an RC completely encircled by a closed, 16-subunit LH1 ring. Comparison of these structures provides insights into quinone dynamics within RC-LH1 complexes, including a previously unidentified conformational change upon quinone binding at the RC QB site, and the locations of accessory quinone binding sites that aid their delivery to the RC. The structurally unique protein-W prevents LH1 ring closure, creating a channel for accelerated quinone/quinol exchange.
PXD017873	33523959	Structure of cyanobacterial phycobilisome core revealed by structural modeling and chemical cross-linking. 	Structure of Cyanobacterial Phycobilisome Core Revealed by Structural Modeling and Chemical Cross-linking	I-TASSER, Photosynthesis , Phycobilisome, Phycobilisome core structure, Protein Cross-linking, Protein structure prediction	In cyanobacteria and red algae, the structural basis dictating efficient excitation energy transfer from the phycobilisome (PBS) antenna complex to the reaction centers remains unclear. The PBS has several peripheral rods and a central core that binds to the thylakoid membrane, allowing energy coupling with photosystem II (PSII) and PSI. Here, we have combined chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry with homology modeling to propose a tricylindrical cyanobacterial PBS core structure. Our model reveals a side-view crossover configuration of the two basal cylinders, consolidating the essential roles of the anchoring domains composed of the ApcE PB loop and ApcD, which facilitate the energy transfer to PSII and PSI, respectively. The uneven bottom surface of the PBS core contrasts with the flat reducing side of PSII. The extra space between two basal cylinders and PSII provides increased accessibility for regulatory elements, e.g., orange carotenoid protein, which are required for modulating photochemical activity.
PXD010576	33523982	Rab7-harboring vesicles are carriers of the transferrin receptor through the biosynthetic secretory pathway. 	Development of the eRush system revealed a role for Rab7  in the neosynthetic secretory pathway	Rab GTPase, TGN exit, Transferrin receptor, membrane traffic, vesicular transport	The biosynthetic secretory pathway is particularly challenging to investigate as it is underrepresented compared to the abundance of the other intracellular trafficking routes. Here, we combined the retention using selective hook (RUSH) to a CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing approach (eRUSH) and identified Rab7-harboring vesicles as an important intermediate compartment of the Golgi-to-plasma membrane transport of neosynthesized transferrin receptor (TfR). These vesicles did not exhibit degradative properties and were not associated to Rab6A-harboring vesicles. Rab7A was transiently associated to neosynthetic TfR-containing post-Golgi vesicles but dissociated before fusion with the plasma membrane. Together, our study reveals a role for Rab7 in the biosynthetic secretory pathway of the TfR, highlighting the diversity of the secretory vesicles' nature.
PXD015183	33524141	SUMOylation regulates the protein network and chromatin accessibility at glucocorticoid receptor-binding sites. 	SUMOylation regulates chromatin protein network and accessibility at glucocorticoid receptor-binding sites	SUMOylation, chromatin regulation, glucocorticoid receptor, transcription factors	Glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is an essential transcription factor (TF), controlling metabolism, development and immune responses. SUMOylation regulates chromatin occupancy and target gene expression of GR in a locus-selective manner, but the mechanism of regulation has remained elusive. Here, we identify the protein network around chromatin-bound GR by using selective isolation of chromatin-associated proteins and show that the network is affected by receptor SUMOylation, with several nuclear receptor coregulators and chromatin modifiers preferring interaction with SUMOylation-deficient GR and proteins implicated in transcriptional repression preferring interaction with SUMOylation-competent GR. This difference is reflected in our chromatin binding, chromatin accessibility and gene expression data, showing that the SUMOylation-deficient GR is more potent in binding and opening chromatin at glucocorticoid-regulated enhancers and inducing expression of target loci. Blockage of SUMOylation by a SUMO-activating enzyme inhibitor (ML-792) phenocopied to a large extent the consequences of GR SUMOylation deficiency on chromatin binding and target gene expression. Our results thus show that SUMOylation modulates the specificity of GR by regulating its chromatin protein network and accessibility at GR-bound enhancers. We speculate that many other SUMOylated TFs utilize a similar regulatory mechanism.
PXD023679	33526561	Delineation of the pH-Responsive Regulon Controlled by the Helicobacter pylori ArsRS Two-Component System. 	Delineation of the pH-responsive regulon controlled by the Helicobacter pylori ArsRS two2 component system	RNA-seq, gene regulation, two-component signal transduction systems	Helicobacter pylori encounters a wide range of pH within the human stomach. In a comparison of H. pylori cultured in vitro under neutral or acidic conditions, about 15% of genes are differentially expressed, and corresponding changes are detectable for many of the encoded proteins. The ArsRS two-component system (TCS), comprised of the sensor kinase ArsS and its cognate response regulator ArsR, has an important role in mediating pH-responsive changes in H. pylori gene expression. In this study, we sought to delineate the pH-responsive ArsRS regulon and further define the role of ArsR in pH-responsive gene expression. We compared H. pylori strains containing an intact ArsRS system with an arsS null mutant or strains containing site-specific mutations of a conserved aspartate residue (D52) in ArsR, which is phosphorylated in response to signals relayed by the cognate sensor kinase ArsS. We identified 178 genes that were pH-responsive in strains containing an intact ArsRS system but not in DeltaarsS or arsR mutants. These constituents of the pH-responsive ArsRS regulon include genes involved in acid acclimatization (ureAB, amidases), oxidative stress responses (katA, sodB), transcriptional regulation related to iron or nickel homeostasis (fur, nikR), and genes encoding outer membrane proteins (including sabA, alpA, alpB, hopD [labA], and horA). When comparing H. pylori strains containing an intact ArsRS TCS with arsRS mutants, each cultured at neutral pH, relatively few genes are differentially expressed. Collectively, these data suggest that ArsRS-mediated gene regulation has an important role in H. pylori adaptation to changing pH conditions.
PXD021415	33526690	The novel PII-interactor PirC identifies phosphoglycerate mutase as key control point of carbon storage metabolism in cyanobacteria. 	The Novel PII-Interacting Regulator PirC (Sll0944) Identifies 3-Phosphoglycerate Mutase (PGAM) as Central Control Point of Carbon Storage Metabolism in Cyanobacteria	3-Phosphoglycerate Mutase, Cyanobacteria, PII, PirC (Sll0944), Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803	Nitrogen limitation imposes a major transition in the lifestyle of nondiazotrophic cyanobacteria that is controlled by a complex interplay of regulatory factors involving the pervasive signal processor PII Immediately upon nitrogen limitation, newly fixed carbon is redirected toward glycogen synthesis. How the metabolic switch for diverting fixed carbon toward the synthesis of glycogen or of cellular building blocks is operated was so far poorly understood. Here, using the nondiazotrophic cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 as model system, we identified a novel PII interactor, the product of the sll0944 gene, which we named PirC. We show that PirC binds to and inhibits the activity of 2,3-phosphoglycerate-independent phosphoglycerate mutase (PGAM), the enzyme that deviates newly fixed CO2 toward lower glycolysis. The binding of PirC to either PII or PGAM is tuned by the metabolite 2-oxoglutarate (2-OG), which accumulates upon nitrogen starvation. In these conditions, the high levels of 2-OG dissociate the PirC-PII complex to promote PirC binding to and inhibition of PGAM. Accordingly, a PirC-deficient mutant showed strongly reduced glycogen levels upon nitrogen deprivation, whereas polyhydroxybutyrate granules were overaccumulated compared to wild-type. Metabolome analysis revealed an imbalance in 3-phosphoglycerate to pyruvate levels in the pirC mutant, confirming that PirC controls the carbon flux in cyanobacteria via mutually exclusive interaction with either PII or PGAM.
PXD020385	33526924	Metabolic control of DNA methylation in naive pluripotent cells. 	Metabolic control of DNA methylation and imprinted gene expression in naive pluripotent cells	DNA methylation, DNMTs, ES, TET	Naive epiblast and embryonic stem cells (ESCs) give rise to all cells of adults. Such developmental plasticity is associated with genome hypomethylation. Here, we show that LIF-Stat3 signaling induces genomic hypomethylation via metabolic reconfiguration. Stat3(-/-) ESCs show decreased alpha-ketoglutarate production from glutamine, leading to increased Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b expression and DNA methylation. Notably, genome methylation is dynamically controlled through modulation of alpha-ketoglutarate availability or Stat3 activation in mitochondria. Alpha-ketoglutarate links metabolism to the epigenome by reducing the expression of Otx2 and its targets Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b. Genetic inactivation of Otx2 or Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b results in genomic hypomethylation even in the absence of active LIF-Stat3. Stat3(-/-) ESCs show increased methylation at imprinting control regions and altered expression of cognate transcripts. Single-cell analyses of Stat3(-/-) embryos confirmed the dysregulated expression of Otx2, Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b as well as imprinted genes. Several cancers display Stat3 overactivation and abnormal DNA methylation; therefore, the molecular module that we describe might be exploited under pathological conditions.
PXD020516	33529527	Proteome Variation with Collagen Yield in Ancient Bone. 	Proteome variation with collagen yield in ancient bone	NCPs, ancient bone, collagen, radiocarbon dating, stable isotopes.	Isotope analyses are some of the most common analytical methods applied to ancient bone, aiding the interpretation of past diets and chronology. For this, the evaluation of "collagen yield" (as defined in radiocarbon dating and stable isotope research) is a routine step that allows for the selection of specimens that are deemed adequate for subsequent analyses, with samples containing less than ~1% "collagen yield" normally being used for isotopic analysis but discounted for radiocarbon dating. The aims of this study were to use proteomic methods of MALDI-TOF (matrix assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-fligh mass spectrometry) and LC-ESI-MS/MS (liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry) to investigate the endogeneity of the dominant proteinaceous biomolecules within samples that are typically considered to contain poorly preserved protein. Taking 29 archaeological samples, we evaluated the proteome variability between different acid-soluble fractions removed prior to protein gelatinization and considered waste as part of the radiocarbon dating process. We then correlated these proteomes against the commonly used "collagen yield" proxy for preservation. We found that these waste fractions contained a significant amount of both collagenous and noncollagenous proteins (NCPs) but that the abundance of these was not correlated with the acquired "collagen yield". Rather than a depleted protein load as would be expected from a low "collagen yield", the variety of the extracted NCPs was comparable with that commonly obtained from ancient samples and included informative proteins useful for species identification, phylogenetic studies, and potentially even for isotopic analyses, given further method developments. Additionally, we did not observe any correlation between "collagen yield" and peptide mass fingerprint success or between the different fractions taken from the same sample but at different radiocarbon pretreatment stages. Overall, these findings highlight the value in retaining and analyzing sample fractions that are otherwise discarded as waste during the radiocarbon dating process but more importantly, that low "collagen yield" specimens that are often misinterpreted by archaeologists as being devoid of protein can still yield useful molecular sequence-based information.
PXD018455	33529682	Chronic caloric restriction maintains a youthful phosphoproteome in aged skeletal muscle. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis reveals enhanced PKA signaling in aged skeletal muscle is suppressed by caloric restriction 	PKA, aging, caloric restriction, mice, phosphoproteome	Caloric restriction (CR) can prolong aged skeletal muscle function, yet the molecular mechanisms are not completely understood. We performed phosphoproteomic analysis on muscle from young and old mice fed an ad libitum diet, and old mice fed a CR diet. CR promoted a youthful phosphoproteomic signature, suppressing several known "pro-aging" pathways including Protein kinase A (PKA). This study validates global signaling changes in skeletal muscle during CR.
PXD023278	33530589	Targeted Quantification of the Lysosomal Proteome in Complex Samples. 	Targeted Quantification of the Lysosomal Proteome in Complex Samples	data-independent acquisition, label-free quantification, lysosomes, parallel reaction monitoring, targeted proteomics	In eukaryotic cells, lysosomes play a crucial role in the breakdown of a variety of components ranging from small molecules to complex structures, ascertaining the continuous turnover of cellular building blocks. Furthermore, they act as a regulatory hub for metabolism, being crucially involved in the regulation of major signaling pathways. Currently, ~450 lysosomal proteins can be reproducibly identified in a single cell line by mass spectrometry, most of which are low-abundant, restricting their unbiased proteomic analysis to lysosome-enriched fractions. In the current study, we applied two strategies for the targeted investigation of the lysosomal proteome in complex samples: data-independent acquisition (DIA) and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Using a lysosome-enriched fraction, mouse embryonic fibroblast whole cell lysate, and mouse liver whole tissue lysate, we investigated the capabilities of DIA and PRM to investigate the lysosomal proteome. While both approaches identified and quantified lysosomal proteins in all sample types, and their data largely correlated, DIA identified on average more proteins, especially for lower complex samples and longer chromatographic gradients. For the highly complex tissue sample and shorter gradients, however, PRM delivered a better performance regarding both identification and quantification of lysosomal proteins. All data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXDD023278.
PXD021922	33533601	BoxCarmax: A High-Selectivity Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry Method for the Analysis of Protein Turnover and Complex Samples. 	BoxCarmax: a novel high-selectivity data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry method for the analysis of protein turnover and complex samples	DIA, HeLa cells, PC12 cells, human plasma, serum starvation	The data-independent acquisition (DIA) performed in the latest high-resolution, high-speed mass spectrometers offers a powerful analytical tool for biological investigations. The DIA mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) combined with the isotopic labeling approach holds a particular promise for increasing the multiplexity of DIA-MS analysis, which could assist the relative protein quantification and the proteome-wide turnover profiling. However, the wide MS1 isolation windows employed in conventional DIA methods lead to a limited efficiency in identifying and quantifying isotope-labeled peptide pairs through peptide fragment ions. Here, we optimized a high-selectivity DIA-MS named BoxCarmax that supports the analysis of complex samples, such as those generated from Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and pulse SILAC (pSILAC) experiments. BoxCarmax enables multiplexed acquisition at both MS1 and MS2 levels, through the integration of BoxCar and MSX features, as well as a gas-phase separation strategy. We found BoxCarmax significantly improved the quantitative accuracy in SILAC and pSILAC samples by mitigating the ratio suppression of isotope-peptide pairs. We further applied BoxCarmax to measure protein degradation regulation during serum starvation stress in cultured cells, revealing valuable biological insights. Our study offered an alternative and accurate approach for the MS analysis of protein turnover and complex samples.
PXD022349	33534581	Enrichment of Neurodegenerative Microglia Signature in Brain-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Isolated from Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Models. 	Protein profiling of CAST.APP/PS1 mouse brain-derived Extracellular vesicles	APP/PS1 mouse, LC-MSMSMS, TMT label, brain tissue, extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are secreted by any neural cells in the central nervous system for molecular clearance, cellular communications, and disease spread in multiple neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), although their exact molecular mechanism is poorly understood. We hypothesize that high-resolution proteomic profiling of EVs separated from animal models of AD would determine the composition of EV contents and their cellular origin. Here, we examined recently developed transgenic mice (CAST.APP/PS1), which express familial AD-linked mutations of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) in the CAST/EiJ mouse strain and develop hippocampal neurodegeneration. Quantitative proteomics analysis of EVs separated from CAST.APP/PS1 and age-matched control mice by tandem mass tag-mass spectrometry identified a total of 3444 unique proteins, which are enriched in neuron-, astrocyte-, oligodendrocyte-, and microglia-specific molecules. CAST.APP/PS1-derived EVs show significant enrichment of Psen1, APP, and Itgax and reduction of Wdr61, Pmpca, Aldh1a2, Calu, Anp32b, Actn4, and Ndufv2 compared to WT-derived EVs, suggesting the involvement of Abeta-processing complex and disease-associated/neurodegenerative microglia (DAM/MGnD) in EV secretion. In addition, Itgax and Apoe, DAM/MGnD markers, in EVs show a positive correlation with Itgax and Apoe mRNA expression from brain tissue in CAST.APP/PS1 mice. These datasets indicate the significant contribution of Abeta plaque and neurodegeneration-induced DAM/MGnD microglia for EV secretion in CAST.APP/PS1 mice and shed light on understanding AD pathogenesis.
PXD012781	33535487	Regulatory Interplay between miR-181a-5p and Estrogen Receptor Signaling Cascade in Breast Cancer. 	IP-MS of LSD1 and ER in treated Breast cancer cells	breast cancer, estrogen receptor, lysisne deaminase, pulldown	The efficacy and side effects of endocrine therapy in breast cancer (BC) depend largely on estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) expression, the specific drug administered, and treatment scheduling. Although the benefits of endocrine therapy outweigh any adverse effects in the initial stages of BC, later- or advanced-stage tumors acquire resistance to treatments. The mechanisms underlying tumor resistance to therapy are still not well understood, posing a major challenge for BC patient care. Epigenetic regulation and miRNA expression may be involved in the switch from a treatment-sensitive to a treatment-resistant state and could provide a valid therapeutic strategy for ERalpha negative BC. Here, a hybrid lysine-specific histone demethylase inhibitor, MC3324, displaying selective estrogen receptor down-regulator-like activities in BC, was used to highlight the interplay between epigenetic and ERalpha signaling. MC3324 anticancer action is mediated by microRNA (miRNA) expression regulation, indicating an innovative function for this molecule. Integrated analysis suggests a crosstalk between estrogen signaling, ERalpha interactors, miRNAs, and their putative targets. Specifically, miR-181a-5p expression is regulated by MC3324 and has an impact on cellular levels of ERalpha. A comparison of breast tumor versus healthy mammary tissues confirmed the important role of miR-181a-5p in ERalpha regulation and points to its putative predictive function in BC therapy.
PXD020908	33536073	Dynamic proteomic profiling of human periodontal ligament stem cells during osteogenic differentiation. 	Dynamic proteomic profiling of human periodontal ligament stem cells during osteogenic differentiation	Dynamic expression, Periodontal, TMT	BACKGROUND: Human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) are ideal seed cells for periodontal regeneration. A greater understanding of the dynamic protein profiles during osteogenic differentiation contributed to the improvement of periodontal regeneration tissue engineering. METHODS: Tandem Mass Tag quantitative proteomics was utilized to reveal the temporal protein expression pattern during osteogenic differentiation of hPDLSCs on days 0, 3, 7 and 14. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were clustered and functional annotated by Gene Ontology (GO) terms. Pathway enrichment analysis was performed based on the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes database, followed by the predicted activation using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis software. Interaction networks of redox-sensitive signalling pathways and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) were conducted and the hub protein SOD2 was validated with western blotting. RESULTS: A total of 1024 DEPs were identified and clustered in 5 distinctive clusters representing dynamic tendencies. The GO enrichment results indicated that proteins with different tendencies show different functions. Pathway enrichment analysis found that OXPHOS was significantly involved, which further predicted continuous activation. Redox-sensitive signalling pathways with dynamic activation status showed associations with OXPHOS to various degrees, especially the sirtuin signalling pathway. SOD2, an important component of the sirtuin pathway, displays a persistent increase during osteogenesis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020908. CONCLUSION: This is the first in-depth dynamic proteomic analysis of osteogenic differentiation of hPDLSCs. It demonstrated a dynamic regulatory mechanism of hPDLSC osteogenesis and might provide a new perspective for research on periodontal regeneration.
PXD013230	33536523	Neutrophil degranulation interconnects over-represented biological processes in atrial fibrillation. 	Differential proteomic analysis of cardiac tissue in atrial fibrillation	Label-free, atrial fibrillation, cardiac	Despite our expanding knowledge about the mechanism underlying atrial fibrillation (AF), the interplay between the biological events underlying AF remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify the functionally enriched gene-sets in AF and capture their interconnection via pivotal factors, that may drive or be driven by AF. Global abundance of the proteins in the left atrium of AF patients compared to control patients (n = 3/group), and the functionally enriched biological processes in AF were determined by mass-spectrometry and gene set enrichment analysis, respectively. The data were validated in an independent cohort (n = 19-20/group). In AF, the gene-sets of innate immune system, metabolic process, cellular component disassembly and ion homeostasis were up-regulated, while the gene-set of ciliogenesis was down-regulated. The innate immune system was over-represented by neutrophil degranulation, the components of which were extensively shared by other gene-sets altered in AF. In the independent cohort, an activated form of neutrophils was more present in the left atrium of AF patients with the increased gene expression of neutrophil granules. MYH10, required for ciliogenesis, was decreased in the atrial fibroblasts of AF patients. We report the increased neutrophil degranulation appears to play a pivotal role, and affects multiple biological processes altered in AF.
PXD011330	33536534	Assessing technical and biological variation in SWATH-MS-based proteomic analysis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia cells. 	Assessing Technical and Biological Variation in SWATH-MS -based Proteomics: A case study in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia	CLL, Leukaemia, SWATH	Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) exhibits variable clinical course and response to therapy, but the molecular basis of this variability remains incompletely understood. Data independent acquisition (DIA)-MS technologies, such as SWATH (Sequential Windowed Acquisition of all THeoretical fragments), provide an opportunity to study the pathophysiology of CLL at the proteome level. Here, a CLL-specific spectral library (7736 proteins) is described alongside an analysis of sample replication and data handling requirements for quantitative SWATH-MS analysis of clinical samples. The analysis was performed on 6 CLL samples, incorporating biological (IGHV mutational status), sample preparation and MS technical replicates. Quantitative information was obtained for 5169 proteins across 54 SWATH-MS acquisitions: the sources of variation and different computational approaches for batch correction were assessed. Functional enrichment analysis of proteins associated with IGHV mutational status showed significant overlap with previous studies based on gene expression profiling. Finally, an approach to perform statistical power analysis in proteomics studies was implemented. This study provides a valuable resource for researchers working on the proteomics of CLL. It also establishes a sound framework for the design of sufficiently powered clinical proteomics studies. Indeed, this study shows that it is possible to derive biologically plausible hypotheses from a relatively small dataset.
PXD018079	33536615	IgA transcytosis and antigen recognition govern ovarian cancer immunity. 	IgA transcytosis and tumor antigen recognition govern anti-tumor immunity in ovarian cancer	Immunoglobulin A, Immunotherapy, Ovarian Cancer, PRM, Transcytosis	Most ovarian cancers are infiltrated by prognostically relevant activated T cells(1-3), yet exhibit low response rates to immune checkpoint inhibitors(4). Memory B cell and plasma cell infiltrates have previously been associated with better outcomes in ovarian cancer(5,6), but the nature and functional relevance of these responses are controversial. Here, using 3 independent cohorts that in total comprise 534 patients with high-grade serous ovarian cancer, we show that robust, protective humoral responses are dominated by the production of polyclonal IgA, which binds to polymeric IgA receptors that are universally expressed on ovarian cancer cells. Notably, tumour B-cell-derived IgA redirects myeloid cells against extracellular oncogenic drivers, which causes tumour cell death. In addition, IgA transcytosis through malignant epithelial cells elicits transcriptional changes that antagonize the RAS pathway and sensitize tumour cells to cytolytic killing by T cells, which also contributes to hindering malignant progression. Thus, tumour-antigen-specific and -antigen-independent IgA responses antagonize the growth of ovarian cancer by governing coordinated tumour cell, T cell and B cell responses. These findings provide a platform for identifying targets that are spontaneously recognized by intratumoural B-cell-derived antibodies, and suggest that immunotherapies that augment B cell responses may be more effective than approaches that focus on T cells, particularly for malignancies that are resistant to checkpoint inhibitors.
PXD016885	33538395	The infection cushion of Botrytis cinerea: a fungal 'weapon' of plant-biomass destruction. 	Proteomic analysis of the proteins secreted by the infection cushions of Botrytis cinerea.	Botrytis, fungi, infection cushion, shotgun secretomics	The necrotrophic plant-pathogen fungus Botrytis cinerea produces multicellular appressoria dedicated to plant penetration, named infection cushions (IC). A microarray analysis was performed to identify genes upregulated in mature IC. The expression data were validated by RT-qPCR analysis performed in vitro and in planta, proteomic analysis of the IC secretome and biochemical assays. 1231 upregulated genes and 79 up-accumulated proteins were identified. The data support the secretion of effectors by IC: phytotoxins, ROS, proteases, cutinases, plant cell wall-degrading enzymes and plant cell death-inducing proteins. Parallel upregulation of sugar transport and sugar catabolism-encoding genes would indicate a role of IC in nutrition. The data also reveal a substantial remodelling of the IC cell wall and suggest a role for melanin and chitosan in IC function. Lastly, mutagenesis of two upregulated genes in IC identified secreted fasciclin-like proteins as actors in the pathogenesis of B. cinerea. These results support the role of IC in plant penetration and also introduce other unexpected functions for this fungal organ, in colonization, necrotrophy and nutrition of the pathogen.
PXD022367	33539096	MaxQuant.Live Enables Enhanced Selectivity and Identification of Peptides Modified by Endogenous SUMO and Ubiquitin. 	MaxQuant.Live enables enhanced selectivity and identification of peptides modified by endogenous SUMO and ubiquitin	MQL, MaxQuant.Live, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, SUMO, peptide mass filtering, precursor untargeting, ubiquitin	Small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMO) and ubiquitin are frequent post-translational modifications of proteins that play pivotal roles in all cellular processes. We previously reported mass spectrometry-based proteomics methods that enable profiling of lysines modified by endogenous SUMO or ubiquitin in an unbiased manner, without the need for genetic engineering. Here we investigated the applicability of precursor mass filtering enabled by MaxQuant.Live to our SUMO and ubiquitin proteomics workflows, which efficiently avoided sequencing of precursors too small to be modified but otherwise indistinguishable by mass-to-charge ratio. Using precursor mass filtering, we achieved a much higher selectivity of modified peptides, ultimately resulting in up to 30% more SUMO and ubiquitin sites identified from replicate samples. Real-time exclusion of unmodified peptides by MQL resulted in 90% SUMO-modified precursor selectivity from a 25% pure sample, demonstrating great applicability for digging deeper into ubiquitin-like modificomes. We adapted the precursor mass filtering strategy to the new Exploris 480 mass spectrometer, achieving comparable gains in SUMO precursor selectivity and identification rates. Collectively, precursor mass filtering via MQL significantly increased identification rates of SUMO- and ubiquitin-modified peptides from the exact same samples, without the requirement for prior knowledge or spectral libraries.
PXD023647	33541434	Protein disulfide isomerase ERp57 protects early muscle denervation in experimental ALS. 	Protein disulfide isomerase ERp57 protects early muscle denervation in experimental ALS	ERp57, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, mutant SOD1, neuromuscular junction, protein aggregation	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive fatal neurodegenerative disease that affects motoneurons. Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) have been described as a causative genetic factor for ALS. Mice overexpressing ALS-linked mutant SOD1 develop ALS symptoms accompanied by histopathological alterations and protein aggregation. The protein disulfide isomerase family member ERp57 is one of the main up-regulated proteins in tissue of ALS patients and mutant SOD1 mice, whereas point mutations in ERp57 were described as possible risk factors to develop the disease. ERp57 catalyzes disulfide bond formation and isomerization in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), constituting a central component of protein quality control mechanisms. However, the actual contribution of ERp57 to ALS pathogenesis remained to be defined. Here, we studied the consequences of overexpressing ERp57 in experimental ALS using mutant SOD1 mice. Double transgenic SOD1(G93A)/ERp57(WT) animals presented delayed deterioration of electrophysiological activity and maintained muscle innervation compared to single transgenic SOD1(G93A) littermates at early-symptomatic stage, along with improved motor performance without affecting survival. The overexpression of ERp57 reduced mutant SOD1 aggregation, but only at disease end-stage, dissociating its role as an anti-aggregation factor from the protection of neuromuscular junctions. Instead, proteomic analysis revealed that the neuroprotective effects of ERp57 overexpression correlated with increased levels of synaptic and actin cytoskeleton proteins in the spinal cord. Taken together, our results suggest that ERp57 operates as a disease modifier at early stages by maintaining motoneuron connectivity.
PXD021726	33542435	The mitotic checkpoint is a targetable vulnerability of carboplatin-resistant triple negative breast cancers. 	LC-MS/MS identification of differentially expressed proteins in carboplatin resistant Triple Negative Breast Cancer	LC-MS/MS identification of differentially expressed proteins in carboplatin resistant Triple Negative Breast Cancer	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype, lacking effective therapy. Many TNBCs show remarkable response to carboplatin-based chemotherapy, but often develop resistance over time. With increasing use of carboplatin in the clinic, there is a pressing need to identify vulnerabilities of carboplatin-resistant tumors. In this study, we generated carboplatin-resistant TNBC MDA-MB-468 cell line and patient derived TNBC xenograft models. Mass spectrometry-based proteome profiling demonstrated that carboplatin resistance in TNBC is linked to drastic metabolism rewiring and upregulation of anti-oxidative response that supports cell replication by maintaining low levels of DNA damage in the presence of carboplatin. Carboplatin-resistant cells also exhibited dysregulation of the mitotic checkpoint. A kinome shRNA screen revealed that carboplatin-resistant cells are vulnerable to the depletion of the mitotic checkpoint regulators, whereas the checkpoint kinases CHEK1 and WEE1 are indispensable for the survival of carboplatin-resistant cells in the presence of carboplatin. We confirmed that pharmacological inhibition of CHEK1 by prexasertib in the presence of carboplatin is well tolerated by mice and suppresses the growth of carboplatin-resistant TNBC xenografts. Thus, abrogation of the mitotic checkpoint by CHEK1 inhibition re-sensitizes carboplatin-resistant TNBCs to carboplatin and represents a potential strategy for the treatment of carboplatin-resistant TNBCs.
PXD022406	33543941	Cross-Species Proteomic Comparison of Outer Membrane Vesicles and Membranes of Francisella tularensis subsp. tularensis versus subsp. holarctica. 	Cross-species proteomic comparison of whole cell lysates, outer membrane vesicles and membrane fractions of Francisella tularensis subsp. tularensis versus subsp. holarctica	FSC200, Francisella tularensis, Q-Exactive, SchuS4, cross-species proteomic comparison, outer membrane vesicles	Release of outer membrane vesicles (OMV) is an important phenomenon in Gram-negative bacteria playing multiple roles in their lifestyle, including in relation to virulence and host-pathogen interaction. Francisella tularensis, unlike other bacteria, releases unusually shaped, tubular OMV. We present a proteomic comparison of OMV and membrane fractions from two F. tularensis strains: moderately virulent subsp. holarctica strain FSC200 and highly virulent subsp. tularensis strain SchuS4. Proteomic comparison studies routinely evaluate samples from the same proteome, but sometimes we must compare samples from closely related organisms. This raises quantification issues. We propose a novel approach to cross-species proteomic comparison based on an intersection protein database from the individual single-species databases. This is less prone to quantification errors arising from differences in the sequences. Consecutively comparing subproteomes of OMV and membranes of the two strains allows distinguishing differences in relative protein amounts caused by global expression changes from those caused by preferential protein packing to OMV or membranes. Among the proteins most differently packed into OMV between the two strains, we detected proteins involved in biosynthesis and metabolism of bacterial envelope components like O-antigen, lipid A, phospholipids, and fatty acids, as well as some major structural outer membrane proteins. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022406.
PXD014399	33545059	Human DDK rescues stalled forks and counteracts checkpoint inhibition at unfired origins to complete DNA replication. 	Human DDK rescues stalled forks and counteracts checkpoint inhibition at unfired origins to complete DNA replication	DDK, analogue-sesitive, cdc7, chemical genetics, phosphoproteomics, replication, stalled forks	Eukaryotic genomes replicate via spatially and temporally regulated origin firing. Cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) and Dbf4-dependent kinase (DDK) promote origin firing, whereas the S phase checkpoint limits firing to prevent nucleotide and RPA exhaustion. We used chemical genetics to interrogate human DDK with maximum precision, dissect its relationship with the S phase checkpoint, and identify DDK substrates. We show that DDK inhibition (DDKi) leads to graded suppression of origin firing and fork arrest. S phase checkpoint inhibition rescued origin firing in DDKi cells and DDK-depleted Xenopus egg extracts. DDKi also impairs RPA loading, nascent-strand protection, and fork restart. Via quantitative phosphoproteomics, we identify the BRCA1-associated (BRCA1-A) complex subunit MERIT40 and the cohesin accessory subunit PDS5B as DDK effectors in fork protection and restart. Phosphorylation neutralizes autoinhibition mediated by intrinsically disordered regions in both substrates. Our results reveal mechanisms through which DDK controls the duplication of large vertebrate genomes.
PXD024335	33545068	Systematically defining selective autophagy receptor-specific cargo using autophagosome content profiling. 	Autophagosome content profiling  - STAR Protocol Data Set	APEX2, proteinase K digest, proximity proteomics	Autophagy deficiency in fed conditions leads to the formation of protein inclusions highlighting the contribution of this lysosomal delivery route to cellular proteostasis. Selective autophagy pathways exist that clear accumulated and aggregated ubiquitinated proteins. Receptors for this type of autophagy (aggrephagy) include p62, NBR1, TOLLIP, and OPTN, which possess LC3-interacting regions and ubiquitin-binding domains (UBDs), thus working as a bridge between LC3/GABARAP proteins and ubiquitinated substrates. However, the identity of aggrephagy substrates and the redundancy of aggrephagy and related UBD-containing receptors remains elusive. Here, we combined proximity labeling and organelle enrichment with quantitative proteomics to systematically map the autophagic degradome targeted by UBD-containing receptors under basal and proteostasis-challenging conditions in human cell lines. We identified various autophagy substrates, some of which were differentially engulfed by autophagosomal and endosomal membranes via p62 and TOLLIP, respectively. Overall, this resource will allow dissection of the proteostasis contribution of autophagy to numerous individual proteins.
PXD022554	33545358	Enforced dimerization between XBP1s and ATF6f enhances the protective effects of the UPR in models of neurodegeneration. 	Enforced dimerization between XBP1s and ATF6f enhances the protective effects of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in models of neurodegeneration	ATF6, ER stress, Huntington`s Disease, Parkinson`s Disease, UPR, XBP1, protein aggregation	Alteration to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proteostasis is observed in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases associated with abnormal protein aggregation. Activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) enables an adaptive reaction to recover ER proteostasis and cell function. The UPR is initiated by specialized stress sensors that engage gene expression programs through the concerted action of the transcription factors ATF4, ATF6f, and XBP1s. Although UPR signaling is generally studied as unique linear signaling branches, correlative evidence suggests that ATF6f and XBP1s may physically interact to regulate a subset of UPR target genes. In this study, we designed an ATF6f/XBP1s fusion protein termed UPRplus that behaves as a heterodimer in terms of its selective transcriptional activity. Cell-based studies demonstrated that UPRplus has a stronger effect in reducing the abnormal aggregation of mutant huntingtin and alpha-synuclein when compared to XBP1s or ATF6 alone. We developed a gene transfer approach to deliver UPRplus into the brain using adeno-associated viruses (AAVs) and demonstrated potent neuroprotection in vivo in preclinical models of Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. These results support the concept in which directing UPR-mediated gene expression toward specific adaptive programs may serve as a possible strategy to optimize the beneficial effects of the pathway in different disease conditions.
PXD021782	33547363	N-linked glycosylation enzymes in the diatom Thalassiosira oceanica exhibit a diel cycle in transcript abundance and favor for NXT-type sites. 	Identification of N-linked glycosylated peptides in the open ocean diatom Thalassiosira oceanica	Diatom, N-linked glycosylation, Solid-phase extraction of N-linked glycosylated peptides	N-linked glycosylation is a posttranslational modification affecting protein folding and function. The N-linked glycosylation pathway in algae is poorly characterized, and further knowledge is needed to understand the cell biology of algae and the evolution of N-linked glycosylation. This study investigated the N-linked glycosylation pathway in Thalassiosira oceanica, an open ocean diatom adapted to survive at growth-limiting iron concentrations. Here we identified and annotated the genes coding for the essential enzymes involved in the N-linked glycosylation pathway of T. oceanica. Transcript levels for genes coding for calreticulin, oligosaccharyltransferase (OST), N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (GnT1), and UDP-glucose glucosyltransferase (UGGT) under high- and low-iron growth conditions revealed diel transcription patterns with a significant decrease of calreticulin and OST transcripts under iron-limitation. Solid-phase extraction of N-linked glycosylated peptides (SPEG) revealed 118 N-linked glycosylated peptides from cells grown in high- and low-iron growth conditions. The identified peptides had 81% NXT-type motifs, with X being any amino acids except proline. The presence of N-linked glycosylation sites in the iron starvation-induced protein 1a (ISIP1a) confirmed its predicted topology, contributing to the biochemical characterization of ISIP1 proteins. Analysis of extensive oceanic gene databases showed a global distribution of calreticulin, OST, and UGGT, reinforcing the importance of glycosylation in microalgae.
PXD019819	33548107	Identification of spliced peptides in pancreatic islets uncovers errors leading to false assignments. 	Identification of spliced peptides in pancreatic islets uncovers errors leading to false assignments	MHC-I peptidome, crinosomes	Proteasomal spliced peptides (PSPs) have been identified in the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) peptidomes of several tumors and have emerged as novel neoantigens that can stimulate highly specific T cells. Much debate has surrounded the percentage of PSPs in the immunopeptidome; reported numbers have ranged from <1-5% to 12-45%. Recently, our laboratory demonstrated in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice that hybrid insulin peptides (HIPs), a special class of spliced peptides, are formed during insulin granule degradation in crinosomes of the pancreatic beta cells and that modified peptides comprised a significant source of false positive HIP assignments. Herein, this study is extended to crinosomes isolated from other mouse strains and to two recent MHC class I studies, to see if modified peptides explained discrepancies in reported percentages of PSPs. This analysis revealed that both MHC-I peptidomes contained many spectra erroneously assigned as PSPs. While many false positive PSPs did arise from modified peptides, others arose from probable data processing errors. Thus, the reported numbers of PSPs in the literature are likely elevated due to errors associated with data processing and analysis.
PXD019525	33549129	Monitoring casbene synthase in Jatropha curcas tissues using targeted proteomics. 	Monitoring Casbene Synthase in Jatropha curcas Tissues Using Targeted Proteomics	Biofuel crops, parallel reaction monitoring, phorbol esters, proteotypic peptide, secondary metabolism, selected reaction monitoring, targeted proteomics	BACKGROUND: Casbene synthase (CS) is responsible for the first committed step in the biosynthesis of phorbol esters (PE) in the Euphorbiaceae. PE are abundant in the seeds of the biofuel crop Jatropha curcas and its toxicity precludes the use of the protein-rich cake obtained after oil extraction as an animal feed and the toxicity of the fumes derived from burning PE containing biofuel is also a matter of concern. This toxicity is a major hindrance to exploit the potential of this crop as a source of raw material to produce biodiesel. For this reason, the current research on J. curcas is mainly focused on the understanding of the biosynthesis and site of synthesis of PE, as an avenue for the development of genotypes unable to synthesize PE in its seeds. RESULTS: Here, we present targeted proteomics assays (SRM and PRM) to detect and quantify CS in leaves, endosperm, and roots of two J. curcas genotypes with contrasting levels of PE. These assays were based on the use of reference isotopic labeled synthetic peptides (ILSP) predicted from 12 gene models of CS from the J. curcas genome. CONCLUSION: Our targeted proteomics methods were able to detect and quantify, for the first time, CS gene products and demonstrate the distribution of CS isoforms only in roots from J. curcas genotypes with a high and low concentration of PE. These methods can be expanded to monitor CS, at the protein level, in different tissues and genotypes of J. curcas.
PXD020074	33549679	Computation-assisted targeted proteomics of alternative splicing protein isoforms in the human heart. 	Targeted analysis of alternative protein isoforms in the human hearts	PRM, Protein isoforms, Shotgun proteomics	Alternative splicing is prevalent in the heart and implicated in many cardiovascular diseases, but not every alternative transcript is translated and detecting non-canonical isoforms at the protein level remains challenging. Here we show the use of a computation-assisted targeted proteomics workflow to detect protein alternative isoforms in the human heart. We build on a recent strategy to integrate deep RNA-seq and large-scale mass spectrometry data to identify candidate translated isoform peptides. A machine learning approach is then applied to predict their fragmentation patterns and design protein isoform-specific parallel reaction monitoring detection (PRM) assays. As proof-of-principle, we built PRM assays for 29 non-canonical isoform peptides and detected 22 peptides in a human heart lysate. The predictions-aided PRM assays closely mirrored synthetic peptide standards for non-canonical sequences. This approach may be useful for validating non-canonical protein identification and discovering functionally relevant isoforms in the heart.
PXD020395	33549681	Phosphoproteomics of the developing heart identifies PERM1 - An outer mitochondrial membrane protein. 	Phosphoproteomics of the developing heart identifies PERM1 - an outer mitochondrial membrane protein	Heart development, Lipid Metabolism, Mitochondria, PERM1, Phosphoproteomics, SILAC	Heart development relies on PTMs that control cardiomyocyte proliferation, differentiation and cardiac morphogenesis. We generated a map of phosphorylation sites during the early stages of cardiac postnatal development in mice; we quantified over 10,000 phosphorylation sites and 5000 proteins that were assigned to different pathways. Analysis of mitochondrial proteins led to the identification of PGC-1- and ERR-induced regulator in muscle 1 (PERM1), which is specifically expressed in skeletal muscle and heart tissue and associates with the outer mitochondrial membrane. We demonstrate PERM1 is subject to rapid changes mediated by the UPS through phosphorylation of its PEST motif by casein kinase 2. Ablation of Perm1 in mice results in reduced protein expression of lipin-1 accompanied by accumulation of specific phospholipid species. Isolation of Perm1-deficient mitochondria revealed significant downregulation of mitochondrial transport proteins for amino acids and carnitines, including SLC25A12/13/29/34 and CPT2. Consistently, we observed altered levels of various lipid species, amino acids, and acylcarnitines in Perm1(-/-) mitochondria. We conclude that the outer mitochondrial membrane protein PERM1 regulates homeostasis of lipid and amino acid metabolites in mitochondria.
PXD018025	33550886	Helicobacter hepaticus is required for immune targeting of bacterial heat shock protein 60 and fatal colitis in mice. 	Testing serum specificity for bacterial antigens in a mouse model of spontaneous colitis	Helicobacter hepaticus, spontaneous colitis	Gut microbiota and the immune system are in constant exchange shaping both host immunity and microbial communities. Here, improper immune regulation can cause inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and colitis. Antibody therapies blocking signaling through the CD40-CD40L axis showed promising results as these molecules are deregulated in certain IBD patients. To better understand the mechanism, we used transgenic DC-LMP1/CD40 animals with a constitutive CD40-signal in CD11c(+) cells, causing a lack of intestinal CD103(+) dendritic cells (DCs) and failure to induce regulatory T (iTreg) cells. These mice rapidly develop spontaneous fatal colitis, accompanied by dysbiosis and increased inflammatory IL-17(+)IFN-gamma(+) Th17/Th1 and IFN-gamma (+) Th1 cells. In the present study, we analyzed the impact of the microbiota on disease development and detected elevated IgA- and IgG-levels in sera from DC-LMP1/CD40 animals. Their serum antibodies specifically bound intestinal bacteria, and by proteome analysis, we identified a 60 kDa chaperonin GroEL (Hsp60) from Helicobacter hepaticus (Hh) as the main specific antigen targeted in the absence of iTregs. When re-derived to a different Hh-free specific-pathogen-free (SPF) microbiota, mice showed few signs of disease, normal microbiota, and no fatality. Upon recolonization of mice with Hh, the disease developed rapidly. Thus, the present work identifies GroEL/Hsp60 as a major Hh-antigen and its role in disease onset, progression, and outcome in this colitis model. Our results highlight the importance of CD103(+) DC- and iTreg-mediated immune tolerance to specific pathobionts to maintain healthy intestinal balance.
PXD019746	33552826	Effect of Phosphorylation on the Collision Cross Sections of Peptide Ions in Ion Mobility Spectrometry. 	Effect of Phosphorylation on the Collision Cross Sections of Peptide Ions in Ion Mobility Spectrometry	Collision cross section, LC/IMS/MS/MS, Phosphopeptides, Trapped ion mobility spectrometry	The insertion of ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) between LC and MS can improve peptide identification in both proteomics and phosphoproteomics by providing structural information that is complementary to LC and MS, because IMS separates ions on the basis of differences in their shapes and charge states. However, it is necessary to know how phosphate groups affect the peptide collision cross sections (CCS) in order to accurately predict phosphopeptide CCS values and to maximize the usefulness of IMS. In this work, we systematically characterized the CCS values of 4,433 pairs of mono-phosphopeptide and corresponding unphosphorylated peptide ions using trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS). Nearly one-third of the mono-phosphopeptide ions evaluated here showed smaller CCS values than their unphosphorylated counterparts, even though phosphorylation results in a mass increase of 80 Da. Significant changes of CCS upon phosphorylation occurred mainly in structurally extended peptides with large numbers of basic groups, possibly reflecting intramolecular interactions between phosphate and basic groups.
PXD018404	33552997	Host Responses in an Ex Vivo Human Skin Model Challenged With Malassezia sympodialis. 	Malassezia sympodialis host response studied with an ex-vivo human skin model	Malassezia sympodialis, human skin, infection model	Malassezia species are a major part of the normal mycobiota and colonize mainly sebum-rich skin regions of the body. This group of fungi cause a variety of infections such as pityriasis versicolor, folliculitis, and fungaemia. In particular, Malassezia sympodialis and its allergens have been associated with non-infective inflammatory diseases such as seborrheic dermatitis and atopic eczema. The aim of this study was to investigate the host response to M. sympodialis on oily skin (supplemented with oleic acid) and non-oily skin using an ex vivo human skin model. Host-pathogen interactions were analyzed by SEM, histology, gene expression, immunoassays and dual species proteomics. The skin response to M. sympodialis was characterized by increased expression of the genes encoding beta-defensin 3 and RNase7, and by high levels of S100 proteins in tissue. Supplementation of oleic acid onto skin was associated with direct contact of yeasts with keratinocytes and epidermal damage. In oily conditions, there was increased expression of IL18 but no expression of antimicrobial peptide genes in the skin's response to M. sympodialis. In supernatants from inoculated skin plus oleic acid, TNFalpha, IL-6, and IL1-beta levels were decreased and IL-18 levels were significantly increased.
PXD022622	33553115	Comprehensive Analysis of C. glutamicum Anaplerotic Deletion Mutants Under Defined d-Glucose Conditions. 	Comprehensive analysis of C. glutamicum anaplerotic deletion mutants under defined D-glucose conditions	Corynebacterium glutamicum, anaplerosis, malic enzyme, methylcitrate cycle, oxaloacetate decarboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, pyruvate carboxylase	Wild-type C. glutamicum ATCC 13032 is known to possess two enzymes with anaplerotic (C4-directed) carboxylation activity, namely phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPCx) and pyruvate carboxylase (PCx). On the other hand, C3-directed decarboxylation can be catalyzed by the three enzymes phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCk), oxaloacetate decarboxylase (ODx), and malic enzyme (ME). The resulting high metabolic flexibility at the anaplerotic node compromises the unambigous determination of its carbon and energy flux in C. glutamicum wild type. To circumvent this problem we performed a comprehensive analysis of selected single or double deletion mutants in the anaplerosis of wild-type C. glutamicum under defined d-glucose conditions. By applying well-controlled lab-scale bioreactor experiments in combination with untargeted proteomics, quantitative metabolomics and whole-genome sequencing hitherto unknown, and sometimes counter-intuitive, genotype-phenotype relationships in these mutants could be unraveled. In comparison to the wild type the four mutants C. glutamiucm Deltapyc, C. glutamiucm Deltapyc Deltaodx, C. glutamiucm Deltappc Deltapyc, and C. glutamiucm Deltapck showed lowered specific growth rates and d-glucose uptake rates, underlining the importance of PCx and PEPCk activity for a balanced carbon and energy flux at the anaplerotic node. Most interestingly, the strain C. glutamiucm Deltappc Deltapyc could be evolved to grow on d-glucose as the only source of carbon and energy, whereas this combination was previously considered lethal. The prevented anaplerotic carboxylation activity of PEPCx and PCx was found in the evolved strain to be compensated by an up-regulation of the glyoxylate shunt, potentially in combination with the 2-methylcitrate cycle.
PXD018408	33553868	Benchmarking Quantitative Performance in Label-Free Proteomics. 	Benchmarking and Best Practices for Quantitative Proteomics	Benchmarking, Best Practices, Data-Dependent Quantitation, Data-Independent Quantitation, Statistics	Previous benchmarking studies have demonstrated the importance of instrument acquisition methodology and statistical analysis on quantitative performance in label-free proteomics. However, the effects of these parameters in combination with replicate number and false discovery rate (FDR) corrections are not known. Using a benchmarking standard, we systematically evaluated the combined impact of acquisition methodology, replicate number, statistical approach, and FDR corrections. These analyses reveal a complex interaction between these parameters that greatly impacts the quantitative fidelity of protein- and peptide-level quantification. At a high replicate number (n = 8), both data-dependent acquisition (DDA) and data-independent acquisition (DIA) methodologies yield accurate protein quantification across statistical approaches. However, at a low replicate number (n = 4), only DIA in combination with linear models for microarrays (LIMMA) and reproducibility-optimized test statistic (ROTS) produced a high level of quantitative fidelity. Quantitative accuracy at low replicates is also greatly impacted by FDR corrections, with Benjamini-Hochberg and Storey corrections yielding variable true positive rates for DDA workflows. For peptide quantification, replicate number and acquisition methodology are even more critical. A higher number of replicates in combination with DIA and LIMMA produce high quantitative fidelity, while DDA performs poorly regardless of replicate number or statistical approach. These results underscore the importance of pairing instrument acquisition methodology with the appropriate replicate number and statistical approach for optimal quantification performance.
PXD020752	33554065	The evolutionary conserved iron-sulfur protein TCR controls P700 oxidation in photosystem I. 	Arabidopsis chloroplast comparison by Masuda and Luu 2020	Chroloplast, SWATH	In natural habitats, plants have developed sophisticated regulatory mechanisms to optimize the photosynthetic electron transfer rate at the maximum efficiency and cope with the changing environments. Maintaining proper P700 oxidation at photosystem I (PSI) is the common denominator for most regulatory processes of photosynthetic electron transfers. However, the molecular complexes and cofactors involved in these processes and their function(s) have not been fully clarified. Here, we identified a redox-active chloroplast protein, the triplet-cysteine repeat protein (TCR). TCR shared similar expression profiles with known photosynthetic regulators and contained two triplet-cysteine motifs (CxxxCxxxC). Biochemical analysis indicated that TCR localizes in chloroplasts and has a [3Fe-4S] cluster. Loss of TCR limited the electron sink downstream of PSI during dark-to-light transition. Arabidopsis pgr5-tcr double mutant reduced growth significantly and showed unusual oxidation and reduction of plastoquinone pool. These results indicated that TCR is involved in electron flow(s) downstream of PSI, contributing to P700 oxidation.
PXD023467	33555135	DEAD-box polypeptide 43 facilitates piRNA amplification by actively liberating RNA from Ago3-piRISC. 	Ago3 interaction proteins in BmN4 cell	Ago3, BmN4, piRNA	The piRNA amplification pathway in Bombyx is operated by Ago3 and Siwi in their piRISC form. The DEAD-box protein, Vasa, facilitates Ago3-piRISC production by liberating cleaved RNAs from Siwi-piRISC in an ATP hydrolysis-dependent manner. However, the Vasa-like factor facilitating Siwi-piRISC production along this pathway remains unknown. Here, we identify DEAD-box polypeptide 43 (DDX43) as the Vasa-like protein functioning in Siwi-piRISC production. DDX43 belongs to the helicase superfamily II along with Vasa, and it contains a similar helicase core. DDX43 also contains a K-homology (KH) domain, a prevalent RNA-binding domain, within its N-terminal region. Biochemical analyses show that the helicase core is responsible for Ago3-piRISC interaction and ATP hydrolysis, while the KH domain enhances the ATPase activity of the helicase core. This enhancement is independent of the RNA-binding activity of the KH domain. For maximal DDX43 RNA-binding activity, both the KH domain and helicase core are required. This study not only provides new insight into the piRNA amplification mechanism but also reveals unique collaborations between the two domains supporting DDX43 function within the pathway.
PXD022597	33555340	Revealing Candida glabrata biofilm matrix proteome: global characterization and pH response. 	Revealing Candida glabrata biofilm matrix proteome: global characterization and pH response	adhesins, biofilm secretome, candidiasis, environmental pH, yapsins, beta-glucans	Candida glabrata is a clinically relevant human pathogen with the ability to form high recalcitrant biofilms that contribute to the establishment and persistence of infection. A defining trait of biofilms is the auto-produced matrix, which is suggested to have structural, virulent and protective roles. Thus, elucidation of matrix components, their function and modulation by the host environment is crucial to disclose their role in C. glabrata pathogenesis. As a major step toward this end, this study aimed to reveal, for the first time, the matrix proteome of C. glabrata biofilms, to characterize it with bioinformatic tools and to study its modulation by the environmental pH (acidic and neutral). The results showed the presence of several pH-specific matrix proteins (51 acidic- and 206 neutral-specific) and also proteins commonly found at both pH conditions (236). Of note, several proteins related to mannan and beta-glucan metabolism, which have a potential role in the delivery/organization of carbohydrates in the matrix, were found in both pH conditions but in much higher quantity under the neutral environment. Additionally, several virulence-related proteins, including epithelial adhesins, yapsins and moonlighting enzymes, were found among matrix proteins. Importantly, several proteins seem to have a non-canonical secretion pathway and Pdr1 was found to be a potential regulator of matrix proteome. Overall, this study indicates a relevant impact of environmental cues in the matrix proteome and provides a unique resource for further functional investigation of matrix proteins, contributing to the identification of potential targets for the development of new therapies against C. glabrata biofilms.
PXD023358	33555887	Comprehensive Analysis of Tryptic Peptides Arising from Disulfide Linkages in NISTmAb and Their Use for Developing a Mass Spectral Library. 	Comprehensive Analysis of Tryptic Peptides Arising from Disulfide Linkages in NISTmAb	NISTmAb, cysteine, disulfide, disulfide bond, disulfide-linked peptides, mass spectral library	This work presents methods for identifying and then creating a mass spectral library for disulfide-linked peptides originating from the NISTmAb, a reference material of the humanized IgG1k monoclonal antibody (RM 8671). Analyses involved both partially reduced and non-reduced samples under neutral and weakly basic conditions followed by nanoflow liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Spectra of peptides containing disulfide bonds are identified by both MS1 ion and MS2 fragment ion data in order to completely map all the disulfide linkages in the NISTmAb. This led to the detection of 383 distinct disulfide-linked peptide ions, arising from fully tryptic cleavage, missed cleavage, irregular cleavage, complex Met/Trp oxidation mixtures, and metal adducts. Fragmentation features of disulfide bonds under low-energy collision dissociation were examined. These include (1) peptide bond cleavage leaving disulfide bonds intact; (2) disulfide bond cleavage, often leading to extensive fragmentation; and (3) double cleavage products resulting from breakages of two peptide bonds or both peptide and disulfide bonds. Automated annotation of various complex MS/MS fragments enabled the identification of disulfide-linked peptides with high confidence. Peptides containing each of the nine native disulfide bonds were identified along with 86 additional disulfide linkages arising from disulfide bond shuffling. The presence of shuffled disulfides was nearly completely abrogated by refining digest conditions. A curated spectral library of 702 disulfide-linked peptide spectra was created from this analysis and is publicly available for free download. Since all IgG1 antibodies have the same constant regions, the resulting library can be used as a tool for facile identification of "hard-to-find" disulfide-bonded peptides. Moreover, we show that one may identify such peptides originating from IgG1 proteins in human serum, thereby serving as a means of monitoring the completeness of protein reduction in proteomics studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD023358.
PXD021896	33555895	Proteo-Genomic Analysis of SARS-CoV-2: A Clinical Landscape of Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms, COVID-19 Proteome, and Host Responses. 	Proteomic analysis of SARS-CoV-2: A clinical landscape of  COVID-19 proteome and host responses	COVID-19 proteins, Covid-19, LC-MS/MS analysis, Proteome/host response, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, clinical swabs	A novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative agent of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and continues to be a global health challenge. To understand viral disease biology, we have carried out proteo-genomic analysis using next-generation sequencing (NGS) and mass spectrometry on nasopharyngeal swabs of COVID-19 patients to examine the clinical genome and proteome. Our study confirms the mutability of SARS-CoV-2 showing multiple single-nucleotide polymorphisms. NGS analysis detected 27 mutations, of which 14 are synonymous, 11 are missense, and 2 are extragenic in nature. Phylogenetic analysis of SARS-CoV-2 isolates indicated their close relation to a Bangladesh isolate and multiple origins of isolates within the country. Our proteomic analysis, for the first time, identified 13 different SARS-CoV-2 proteins from the clinical swabs. Of the total 41 peptides captured by high-resolution mass spectrometry, 8 matched to nucleocapsid protein, 2 to ORF9b, and 1 to spike glycoprotein and ORF3a, with remaining peptides mapping to ORF1ab polyprotein. Additionally, host proteome analysis revealed several key host proteins to be uniquely expressed in COVID-19 patients. Pathway analysis of these proteins points toward modulation in immune response, especially involving neutrophil and IL-12-mediated signaling. Besides revealing the aspects of host-virus pathogenesis, our study opens new avenues to develop better diagnostic markers and therapeutic approaches.
PXD018013	33557580	Mechanisms of Congenital Heart Disease Caused by NAA15 Haploinsufficiency. 	NAA15 haploinsufficiency can cause congenital heart disease and perturbs protein levels in induced pluripotent stem cells	N-terminal acetylation, N-terminomics, iPSC	[Figure: see text].
PXD023759	33557937	The production of excretory-secretory molecules from Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri fourth stage larvae varies between mixed and single sex cultures. 	The production of Excretory-Secretory molecules from Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri fourth stage larvae varies between mixed and single sex cultures.	Excretory-secretory products, Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri, Nematode	BACKGROUND: Excretory-secretory (ES) products are crucial in maintaining helminths in the host. Consequently, the proteins of ES are potential vaccine molecules and potential therapeutic agents for autoimmune diseases. Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri, a gastrointestinal parasite of mice, is a model of hookworm infection in humans. ES produced by both sexes of H. polygyrus bakeri L4 stage cultured separately shows different immunomodulatory properties than ES obtained when both sexes are cultured together. Accordingly, the objective of this study was to identify and compare the excretory-secretory molecules from single-sex and mixed cultures. METHODS: The composition of ES of male and female L4 stage nematodes in the presence (cultured together) or absence (cultured alone) of the opposite sex was examined. Proteins were identified using mass spectrometry. The functions of identified proteins were explored with Blast2GO. RESULTS: A total of 258 proteins derived from mixed larval culture in the presence of sex pheromones were identified, 160 proteins from pure female cultures and 172 from pure male cultures. Exposure of nematodes to the sex pheromones results in abundant production of proteins with immunomodulatory properties such as Val proteins, acetylcholinesterases, TGF-beta mimic 9 and HpARI. Proteins found only in ES from mixed larval cultures were TGF-beta mimics 6 and 7 as well as galectin. CONCLUSIONS: The presence of the opposite sex strongly influences the composition of ES products, probably by chemical (pheromone) communication between individuals. However, examination of the composition of ES from various conditions gives an opportunity for searching for new potentially therapeutic compounds and anthelminthics as well as components of vaccines. Manipulation of the nematode environment might be important for the studies on the immunomodulatory potential of nematodes.
PXD017964	33558481	SPRTN protease-cleaved MRE11 decreases DNA repair and radiosensitises cancer cells. 	A truncated MRE11 form induced by SPRTN is deficient in DNA repair and radiosensitises cancer cells	C-terminal truncation, DNA repair, MRE11, MRE11 cleavage, SPRTN	The human MRE11/RAD50/NBS1 (MRN) complex plays a crucial role in sensing and repairing DNA DSB. MRE11 possesses dual 3'-5' exonuclease and endonuclease activity and forms the core of the multifunctional MRN complex. We previously identified a C-terminally truncated form of MRE11 (TR-MRE11) associated with post-translational MRE11 degradation. Here we identified SPRTN as the essential protease for the formation of TR-MRE11 and characterised the role of this MRE11 form in its DNA damage response (DDR). Using tandem mass spectrometry and site-directed mutagenesis, the SPRTN-dependent cleavage site for MRE11 was identified between 559 and 580 amino acids. Despite the intact interaction of TR-MRE11 with its constitutive core complex proteins RAD50 and NBS1, both nuclease activities of truncated MRE11 were dramatically reduced due to its deficient binding to DNA. Furthermore, lack of the MRE11 C-terminal decreased HR repair efficiency, very likely due to abolished recruitment of TR-MRE11 to the sites of DNA damage, which consequently led to increased cellular radiosensitivity. The presence of this DNA repair-defective TR-MRE11 could explain our previous finding that the high MRE11 protein expression by immunohistochemistry correlates with improved survival following radical radiotherapy in bladder cancer patients.
PXD023016	33558857	Proteomic investigation reveals dominant alterations of neutrophil degranulation and mRNA translation pathways in patients with COVID-19. 	Proteomic Investigation Reveals Dominant Alterations of Neutrophil Degranulation and mRNA Translation Pathways in COVID-19 Patients	COVID-19, Nasopharyngeal swab, ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2	The altered molecular proteins and pathways in response to COVID-19 infection are still unclear. Here, we performed a comprehensive proteomics-based investigation of nasopharyngeal swab samples from patients with COVID-19 to study the host response by employing simple extraction strategies. Few of the host proteins such as interleukin-6, L-lactate dehydrogenase, C-reactive protein, Ferritin, and aspartate aminotransferase were found to be upregulated only in COVID-19-positive patients using targeted multiple reaction monitoring studies. The most important pathways identified by enrichment analysis were neutrophil degranulation, interleukin-12 signaling pathways, and mRNA translation of proteins thus providing the detailed investigation of host response in COVID-19 infection. Thus, we conclude that mass spectrometry-detected host proteins have a potential for disease severity progression; however, suitable validation strategies should be deployed for the clinical translation. Furthermore, the in silico docking of potential drugs with host proteins involved in the interleukin-12 signaling pathway might aid in COVID-19 therapeutic interventions.
PXD023402	33560821	Inline Liquid Chromatography-Fast Photochemical Oxidation of Proteins for Targeted Structural Analysis of Conformationally Heterogeneous Mixtures. 	Inline Liquid Chromatography-Fast Photochemical Oxidation of Proteins Allows for Targeted Structural Analysis of Conformationally Heterogeneous Mixtures	Biosimilar, HRPF, Higher order structure, Inline FPOP	Structural analysis of proteins in a conformationally heterogeneous mixture has long been a difficult problem in structural biology. In structural analysis by covalent labeling mass spectrometry, conformational heterogeneity results in data reflecting a weighted average of all conformers, complicating data analysis and potentially causing misinterpretation of results. Here, we describe a method coupling size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) with hydroxyl radical protein footprinting using inline fast photochemical oxidation of proteins (FPOP). Using a controlled synthetic mixture of holomyoglobin and apomyoglobin, we validate that we can achieve accurate footprints of each conformer using LC-FPOP when compared to offline FPOP of each pure conformer. We then applied LC-FPOP to analyze the adalimumab heat-shock aggregation process. We found that the LC-FPOP footprint of unaggregated adalimumab was consistent with a previously published footprint of the native IgG. The LC-FPOP footprint of the aggregation product indicated that heat-shock aggregation primarily protected the hinge region, suggesting that this region is involved with the heat-shock aggregation process of this molecule. LC-FPOP offers a new method to probe dynamic conformationally heterogeneous mixtures that can be separated by SEC such as biopharmaceutical aggregates and to obtain accurate information on the topography of each conformer.
PXD023041	33561017	TLR2-mediated activation of innate responses in the upper airways confers antiviral protection of the lungs. 	TLR-2-mediated activation of innate responses in the upper airways confers rapid anti-viral protection of the lungs	TLR2, epithelial cells, influenza virus, innate immunity, macrophages, nasal turbinate, respiratory viral infection	The impact of respiratory virus infections on global health is felt not just during a pandemic, but endemic seasonal infections pose an equal and ongoing risk of severe disease. Moreover, vaccines and antiviral drugs are not always effective or available for many respiratory viruses. We investigated how induction of effective and appropriate antigen-independent innate immunity in the upper airways can prevent the spread of respiratory virus infection to the vulnerable lower airways. Activation of TLR2, when restricted to the nasal turbinates, resulted in prompt induction of innate immune-driven antiviral responses through action of cytokines, chemokines, and cellular activity in the upper but not the lower airways. We have defined how nasal epithelial cells and recruitment of macrophages work in concert and play pivotal roles to limit progression of influenza virus to the lungs and sustain protection for up to 7 days. These results reveal underlying mechanisms of how control of viral infection in the upper airways can occur and support the implementation of strategies that can activate TLR2 in nasal passages to provide rapid protection, especially for at-risk populations, against severe respiratory infection when vaccines and antiviral drugs are not always effective or available.
PXD020246	33561268	Correction of frameshift mutations in the atpB gene by translational recoding in chloroplasts of Oenothera and tobacco. 	Correction of indels in the atpB gene by genetic recoding in the chloroplast of Oenothera and tobacco	Oenothera, SRM, chloroplast, tabacco, targeted	Translational recoding, also known as ribosomal frameshifting, is a process that causes ribosome slippage along the messenger RNA, thereby changing the amino acid sequence of the synthesized protein. Whether the chloroplast employs recoding is unknown. I-iota, a plastome mutant of Oenothera (evening primrose), carries a single adenine insertion in an oligoA stretch [11A] of the atpB coding region (encoding the beta-subunit of the ATP synthase). The mutation is expected to cause synthesis of a truncated, nonfunctional protein. We report that a full-length AtpB protein is detectable in I-iota leaves, suggesting operation of a recoding mechanism. To characterize the phenomenon, we generated transplastomic tobacco lines in which the atpB reading frame was altered by insertions or deletions in the oligoA motif. We observed that insertion of two adenines was more efficiently corrected than insertion of a single adenine, or deletion of one or two adenines. We further show that homopolymeric composition of the oligoA stretch is essential for recoding, as an additional replacement of AAA lysine codon by AAG resulted in an albino phenotype. Our work provides evidence for the operation of translational recoding in chloroplasts. Recoding enables correction of frameshift mutations and can restore photoautotrophic growth in the presence of a mutation that otherwise would be lethal.
PXD021567	33561546	Systematic Proteome and Lysine Succinylome Analysis Reveals Enhanced Cell Migration by Hyposuccinylation in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. 	Proteome-wide Hyposuccinylation of Esophageal Squamous Cell Cancer to Promotion of Tumor Metabolism and Migration	Esophageal squamous, Migration, Post-translational modification, Succinylation	Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is an aggressive malignancy with poor therapeutic outcomes. However, the alterations in proteins and posttranslational modifications (PTMs) leading to the pathogenesis of ESCC remain unclear. Here, we provide the comprehensive characterization of the proteome, phosphorylome, lysine acetylome, and succinylome for ESCC and matched control cells using quantitative proteomic approach. We identify abnormal protein and PTM pathways, including significantly downregulated lysine succinylation sites in cancer cells. Focusing on hyposuccinylation, we reveal that this altered PTM was enriched on enzymes of metabolic pathways inextricably linked with cancer metabolism. Importantly, ESCC malignant behaviors such as cell migration are inhibited once the level of succinylation was restored in vitro or in vivo. This effect was further verified by mutations to disrupt succinylation sites in candidate proteins. Meanwhile, we found that succinylation has a negative regulatory effect on histone methylation to promote cancer migration. Finally, hyposuccinylation is confirmed in primary ESCC specimens. Our findings together demonstrate that lysine succinylation may alter ESCC metabolism and migration, providing new insights into the functional significance of PTM in cancer biology.
PXD021674	33561557	Identification of proteins related with pemetrexed resistance by iTRAQ and PRM-based comparative proteomic analysis and exploration of IGF2BP2 and FOLR1 functions in non-small cell lung cancer cells. 	Identification of proteins related with pemetrexed resistance by iTRAQ and PRM-based comparative proteomic analysis in non-small cell lung cancer cells	Pemetrexed, iTRAQ, liquid chromatography, non-small cell lung cancer, parallel reaction monitoring	Pemetrexed (PEM), a multi-target folate antagonist, has been extensively used for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the therapeutic efficacy of PEM is limited by tumor resistance. In this project, iTRAQ and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM)-based LC-MS/MS comparative proteomic analysis was performed to identify protein determinants of PEM resistance in A549/PEM cells versus A549 parental cells. A total of 567 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified by iTRAQ analysis. The function and classification of DEPs were analyzed through GO and KEGG Pathway databases. Moreover, PRM analysis further validated the expression changes of 14 DEPs identified by iTRAQ analysis. Moreover, insulin-like growth factor (IGF) 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) or folate receptor alpha (FOLR1) knockdown weakened PEM resistance, reduced cell viability and promoted cell apoptosis in A549/PEM cells. IGF2BP2 depletion inhibited cell migration, invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), while FOLR1 loss had no much effect on cell migration, invasion and EMT in A549/PEM cells. Our study can provide a deep insight into molecular mechanisms of PEM resistance in NSCLC and contribute to the development of more effective therapeutic schedules. SIGNIFICANCE: Our study can provide deeper insight into molecular mechanisms of PEM resistance in NSCLC and contribute to the development of more effective therapeutic schedules.
PXD021292	33561610	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Association of Neuron Projection Development Genes ARF4, KIF5B, and RAB8A With Hirschsprung Disease. 	Quantitative proteomics associated with Hirschsprung disease	Hirschsprung disease, PRM, iTRAQ	Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a heterogeneous group of neurocristopathy characterized by the absence of the enteric ganglia along a variable length of the intestine. Genetic defects play a major role in the pathogenesis of HSCR, whereas family studies of pathogenic variants in all the known genes (loci) only demonstrate incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity for unknown reasons. Here, we applied large-scale, quantitative proteomics of human colon tissues from 21 patients using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification. method followed by bioinformatics analysis. Selected findings were confirmed by parallel reaction monitoring verification. At last, the interesting differentially expressed proteins were confirmed by Western blot. A total of 5341 proteins in human colon tissues were identified. Among them, 664 proteins with >1.2-fold difference were identified in six groups: groups A1 and A2 pooled protein from the ganglionic and aganglionic colon of male, long-segment HSCR patients (n = 7); groups B1 and B2 pooled protein from the ganglionic and aganglionic colon of male, short-segment HSCR patients (n = 7); and groups C1 and C2 pooled protein from the ganglionic and aganglionic colon of female, short-segment HSCR patients (n = 7). Based on these analyses, 49 proteins from five pathways were selected for parallel reaction monitoring verification, including ribosome, endocytosis, spliceosome, oxidative phosphorylation, and cell adhesion. The downregulation of three neuron projection development genes ARF4, KIF5B, and RAB8A in the aganglionic part of the colon was verified in 15 paired colon samples using Western blot. The findings of this study will shed new light on the pathogenesis of HSCR and facilitate the development of therapeutic targets.
PXD032934	33562441	The Immune Microenvironment in Multiple Myeloma: Friend or Foe? 	Multiple myeloma-derived extracellular vesicles modulate the bone marrow immune microenvironment	bone marrow, extracellular vesicles, microenvironment, multiple myeloma	Multiple myeloma (MM) is one of the most prevalent hematological cancers worldwide, characterized by the clonal expansion of neoplastic plasma cells in the bone marrow (BM). A combination of factors is implicated in disease progression, including BM immune microenvironment changes. Increasing evidence suggests that the disruption of immunological processes responsible for myeloma control ultimately leads to the escape from immune surveillance and resistance to immune effector function, resulting in an active form of myeloma. In fact, one of the hallmarks of MM is the development of a permissive BM milieu that provides a growth advantage to the malignant cells. Consequently, a better understanding of how myeloma cells interact with the BM niche compartments and disrupt the immune homeostasis is of utmost importance to develop more effective treatments. This review focuses on the most up-to-date knowledge regarding microenvironment-related mechanisms behind MM immune evasion and suppression, as well as promising molecules that are currently under pre-clinical tests targeting immune populations.
PXD011683	33562532	Large-Scale Proteomic Analysis of Follicular Lymphoma Reveals Extensive Remodeling of Cell Adhesion Pathway and Identifies Hub Proteins Related to the Lymphomagenesis. 	The development of minimal invasive therapy of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma based on optical tweezers technology.	LC-MS/MS., cell-to-cell adhesion, cellular adhesion molecules (CAMs), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, optical tweezers	Follicular lymphoma (FL) represents the major subtype of indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (B-NHLs) and results from the malignant transformation of mature B-cells in lymphoid organs. Although gene expression and genomic studies have identified multiple disease driving gene aberrations, only a few proteomic studies focused on the protein level. The present work aimed to examine the proteomic profiles of follicular lymphoma vs. normal B-cells obtained by fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) to gain deep insight into the most perturbed pathway of FL. The cells of interest were purified by magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS). High-throughput proteomic profiling was performed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and allowed to identify of 6724 proteins in at least 75% of each group of samples. The 'Total Protein Approach' (TPA) was applied to the absolute quantification of proteins in this study. We identified 1186 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) between FL and control samples, causing an extensive remodeling of several molecular pathways, including the B-cell receptor signaling pathway, cellular adhesion molecules, and PPAR pathway. Additionally, the construction of protein-protein interactions networks (PPINs) and identification of hub proteins allowed us to indicate the key player proteins for FL pathology. Finally, ICAM1, CD9, and CD79B protein expression was validated in an independent cohort by flow cytometry (FCM), and the results were consistent with the mass spectrometry (MS) data.
PXD016823	33563959	The methyltransferase METTL9 mediates pervasive 1-methylhistidine modification in mammalian proteomes. 	ProSeAM SILAC MS screening for METTL9 substrates	METTL9, ProSeAM	Post-translational methylation plays a crucial role in regulating and optimizing protein function. Protein histidine methylation, occurring as the two isomers 1- and 3-methylhistidine (1MH and 3MH), was first reported five decades ago, but remains largely unexplored. Here we report that METTL9 is a broad-specificity methyltransferase that mediates the formation of the majority of 1MH present in mouse and human proteomes. METTL9-catalyzed methylation requires a His-x-His (HxH) motif, where "x" is preferably a small amino acid, allowing METTL9 to methylate a number of HxH-containing proteins, including the immunomodulatory protein S100A9 and the NDUFB3 subunit of mitochondrial respiratory Complex I. Notably, METTL9-mediated methylation enhances respiration via Complex I, and the presence of 1MH in an HxH-containing peptide reduced its zinc binding affinity. Our results establish METTL9-mediated 1MH as a pervasive protein modification, thus setting the stage for further functional studies on protein histidine methylation.
PXD020263	33564003	Identification of potential salivary biomarker panels for oral squamous cell carcinoma. 	Development of a potential salivary biomarker panel for Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma using a proteomics-based approach.	Biomarker, Diagnostic panel, Early diagnosis, Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Parallel Reaction Monitoring, Targeted proteomics	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most prevalent cancers worldwide with the maximum number of incidences and deaths reported from India. One of the major causes of poor survival rate associated with OSCC has been attributed to late presentation due to non-availability of a biomarker. Identification of early diagnostic biomarker will help in reducing the disease morbidity and mortality. We validated 12 salivary proteins using targeted proteomics, identified initially by relative quantification of salivary proteins on LC-MS, in OSCC patients and controls. Salivary AHSG (p = 0.0041**) and KRT6C (p = 0.002**) were upregulated in OSCC cases and AZGP1 (p <= 0.0001***), KLK1 (p = 0.006**) and BPIFB2 (p = 0.0061**) were downregulated. Regression modelling resulted in a significant risk prediction model (p < 0.0001***) consisting of AZGP1, AHSG and KRT6C for which ROC curve had AUC, sensitivity and specificity of 82.4%, 78% and 73.5% respectively for all OSCC cases and 87.9%, 87.5% and 73.5% respectively for late stage (T3/T4) OSCC. AZGP1, AHSG, KRT6C and BPIFB2 together resulted in ROC curve (p < 0.0001***) with AUC, sensitivity and specificity of 94%, 100% and 77.6% respectively for N0 cases while KRT6C and AZGP1 for N+ cases with ROC curve (p < 0.0001***) having AUC sensitivity and specificity of 76.8%, 73% and 69.4%. Our data aids in the identification of biomarker panels for the diagnosis of OSCC cases with a differential diagnosis between early and late-stage cases.
PXD016311	33566799	Major antigen and paramyosin proteins as candidate biomarkers for serodiagnosis of canine infection by zoonotic Onchocerca lupi. 	Major Antigen and paramyosin proteins as candidate biomarkers for serodiagnosis of canine infection by zoonotic Onchocerca lupi	Major antigen, Onchocerca lupi, Paramyosin, biomarkers, canine onchocercosis	Onchocerca lupi (Spirurida: Onchocercidae) is a filarial worm parasitizing domestic carnivores and humans. Adult nematodes usually localize beneath in the sclera or in the ocular retrobulbar of infected animals, whilst microfilariae are found in the skin. Therefore, diagnosis of O. lupi is achieved by microscopic and/or molecular detection of microfilariae from skin biopsy and/or surgical removal of adults from ocular tissues of infected hosts. An urgent non-invasive diagnostic tool for the diagnosis of O. lupi in dog is mandatory. In this study, an immunoproteomic analyses was performed using a combination of immunoblotting and mass spectrometry techniques. Onchocerca lupi major antigen (Ol-MJA) and paramyosin (Ol-PARA) proteins were identified as potential biomarkers for serodiagnosis. Linear epitopes were herein scanned for both proteins using high-density peptide microarray. Sera collected from dog infected with O. lupi and healthy animal controls led to the identification of 11 immunodominant antigenic peptides (n = 7 for Ol-MJA; n = 4 for Ol-PARA). These peptides were validated using sera of dogs uniquely infected with the most important filarioids infesting dogs either zoonotic (Dirofilaria repens, Dirofilaria immitis) or not (Acanthocheilonema reconditum and Cercopithifilaria bainae). Overall, six antigenic peptides, three for Ol-MJA and for Ol-PARA, respectively, were selected as potential antigens for the serological detection of canine O. lupi infection. The molecular and proteomic dataset herein reported should provide a useful resource for studies on O. lupi toward supporting the development of new interventions (drugs, vaccines and diagnostics) against canine onchocercosis.
PXD018077	33567280	The glucocorticoid receptor recruits the COMPASS complex to regulate inflammatory transcription at macrophage enhancers. 	ChIP-MS of Glucocorticoid Receptor in primary mouse macrophages	chromatin, epigenetics, immunology, transcription factor	Glucocorticoids (GCs) are effective anti-inflammatory drugs; yet, their mechanisms of action are poorly understood. GCs bind to the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), a ligand-gated transcription factor controlling gene expression in numerous cell types. Here, we characterize GR's protein interactome and find the SETD1A (SET domain containing 1A)/COMPASS (complex of proteins associated with Set1) histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methyltransferase complex highly enriched in activated mouse macrophages. We show that SETD1A/COMPASS is recruited by GR to specific cis-regulatory elements, coinciding with H3K4 methylation dynamics at subsets of sites, upon treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and GCs. By chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) and RNA-seq, we identify subsets of GR target loci that display SETD1A occupancy, H3K4 mono-, di-, or tri-methylation patterns, and transcriptional changes. However, our data on methylation status and COMPASS recruitment suggest that SETD1A has additional transcriptional functions. Setd1a loss-of-function studies reveal that SETD1A/COMPASS is required for GR-controlled transcription of subsets of macrophage target genes. We demonstrate that the SETD1A/COMPASS complex cooperates with GR to mediate anti-inflammatory effects.
PXD019923	33567341	USP11 mediates repair of DNA-protein cross-links by deubiquitinating SPRTN metalloprotease. 	USP11 deubiquitinates monoubiquitinated SPRTN to repair DNA-protein crosslinks	DPC, DPC repair, SPRTN, Top1-ccs, USP11, deubiquitination, monoubiquitinated SPRTN	DNA-protein cross-links (DPCs) are toxic DNA lesions that interfere with DNA metabolic processes such as replication, transcription, and recombination. USP11 deubiquitinase participates in DNA repair, but the role of USP11 in DPC repair is not known. SPRTN is a replication-coupled DNA-dependent metalloprotease that cleaves proteins cross-linked to DNA to promote DPC repair. SPRTN function is tightly regulated by a monoubiquitin switch that controls SPRTN auto-proteolysis and chromatin accessibility during DPC repair. Previously, VCPIP1 and USP7 deubiquitinases have been shown to regulate SPRTN. Here, we identify USP11 as an SPRTN deubiquitinase. USP11 interacts with SPRTN and cleaves monoubiquitinated SPRTN in cells and in vitro. USP11 depletion impairs SPRTN deubiquitination and promotes SPRTN auto-proteolysis in response to formaldehyde-induced DPCs. Loss of USP11 causes an accumulation of unrepaired DPCs and cellular hypersensitivity to treatment with DPC-inducing agents. Our findings show that USP11 regulates SPRTN auto-proteolysis and SPRTN-mediated DPC repair to maintain genome stability.
PXD018099	33567651	Arabidopsis Defense against the Pathogenic Fungus Drechslera gigantea Is Dependent on the Integrity of the Unfolded Protein Response. 	Arabidopsis resistance to the Fungal Pathogen Drecslera gigantea in WT and bzip28 bzip60 mutant plants: the role of the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) mechanism	Drecslera gigantea infection, bzip mutants, fungal infection, unfolded protein response (UPR)	Drechslera gigantea Heald & Wolf is a worldwide-spread necrotrophic fungus closely related to the Bipolaris genus, well-known because many member species provoke severe diseases in cereal crops and studied because they produce sesterpenoid phytoxins named ophiobolins which possess interesting biological properties. The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a conserved mechanism protecting eukaryotic cells from the accumulation of unfolded/misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In plants, consolidated evidence supports the role of UPR in the tolerance to abiotic stress, whereas much less information is available concerning the induction of ER stress by pathogen infection and consequent UPR elicitation as part of the defense response. In this study, the infection process of D. gigantea in Arabidopsis thaliana wild type and UPR-defective bzip28 bzip60 double mutant plants was comparatively investigated, with the aim to address the role of UPR in the expression of resistance to the fungal pathogen. The results of confocal microscopy, as well as of qRT-PCR transcript level analysis of UPR genes, proteomics, microRNAs expression profile and HPLC-based hormone analyses demonstrated that ophiobolin produced by the fungus during infection compromised ER integrity and that impairment of the IRE1/bZIP60 pathway of UPR hampered the full expression of resistance, thereby enhancing plant susceptibility to the pathogen.
PXD004546	33568149	Isotypes of autoantibodies against novel differential 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified peptide adducts in serum is associated with rheumatoid arthritis in Taiwanese women. 	Human Rheumatoid Arthritis LC-MSMS	Autoantibody isotypes, Malondialdehyde, Rheumatoid arthritis, Serum	BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disorder with systemic inflammation and may be induced by oxidative stress that affects an inflamed joint. Our objectives were to examine isotypes of autoantibodies against 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) modifications in RA and associate them with increased levels of autoantibodies in RA patients. METHODS: Serum samples from 155 female patients [60 with RA, 35 with osteoarthritis (OA), and 60 healthy controls (HCs)] were obtained. Four novel differential HNE-modified peptide adducts, complement factor H (CFAH)(1211-1230), haptoglobin (HPT)(78-108), immunoglobulin (Ig) kappa chain C region (IGKC)(2-19), and prothrombin (THRB)(328-345), were re-analyzed using tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) spectra (ProteomeXchange: PXD004546) from RA patients vs. HCs. Further, we determined serum protein levels of CFAH, HPT, IGKC and THRB, HNE-protein adducts, and autoantibodies against unmodified and HNE-modified peptides. Significant correlations and odds ratios (ORs) were calculated. RESULTS: Levels of HPT in RA patients were greatly higher than the levels in HCs. Levels of HNE-protein adducts and autoantibodies in RA patients were significantly greater than those of HCs. IgM anti-HPT(78-108) HNE, IgM anti-IGKC(2-19), and IgM anti-IGKC(2-19) HNE may be considered as diagnostic biomarkers for RA. Importantly, elevated levels of IgM anti-HPT(78-108) HNE, IgM anti-IGKC(2-19), and IgG anti-THRB(328-345) were positively correlated with the disease activity score in 28 joints for C-reactive protein (DAS28-CRP). Further, the ORs of RA development through IgM anti-HPT(78-108) HNE (OR 5.235, p < 0.001), IgM anti-IGKC(2-19) (OR 12.655, p < 0.001), and IgG anti-THRB(328-345) (OR 5.761, p < 0.001) showed an increased risk. Lastly, we incorporated three machine learning models to differentiate RA from HC and OA, and performed feature selection to determine discriminative features. Experimental results showed that our proposed method achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.92, which demonstrated that our selected autoantibodies combined with machine learning can efficiently detect RA. CONCLUSIONS: This study discovered that some IgG- and IgM-NAAs and anti-HNE M-NAAs may be correlated with inflammation and disease activity in RA. Moreover, our findings suggested that IgM anti-HPT(78-108) HNE, IgM anti-IGKC(2-19), and IgG anti-THRB(328-345) may play heavy roles in RA development.
PXD020038	33568648	Cryo-EM structures of engineered active bc1-cbb3 type CIII2CIV super-complexes and electronic communication between the complexes. 	Bacterial respiratory cytochrome bc1-cbb3 supercomplex	QE HF, Rhodobacter capsulatus	Respiratory electron transport complexes are organized as individual entities or combined as large supercomplexes (SC). Gram-negative bacteria deploy a mitochondrial-like cytochrome (cyt) bc1 (Complex III, CIII2), and may have specific cbb3-type cyt c oxidases (Complex IV, CIV) instead of the canonical aa3-type CIV. Electron transfer between these complexes is mediated by soluble (c2) and membrane-anchored (cy) cyts. Here, we report the structure of an engineered bc1-cbb3 type SC (CIII2CIV, 5.2 Aa resolution) and three conformers of native CIII2 (3.3 Aa resolution). The SC is active in vivo and in vitro, contains all catalytic subunits and cofactors, and two extra transmembrane helices attributed to cyt cy and the assembly factor CcoH. The cyt cy is integral to SC, its cyt domain is mobile and it conveys electrons to CIV differently than cyt c2. The successful production of a native-like functional SC and determination of its structure illustrate the characteristics of membrane-confined and membrane-external respiratory electron transport pathways in Gram-negative bacteria.
PXD020521	33569353	Factor H Is Bound by Outer Membrane-Displayed Carbohydrate Metabolism Enzymes of Extraintestinal Pathogenic Escherichia coli and Contributes to Opsonophagocytosis Resistance in Bacteria. 	Identification of  Escherichia coli FH-binding proteins	FH-binding protein,Escherichia coli	Extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) causes bloodstream infections in humans and animals. Complement escape is a prerequisite for bacteria to survive in the bloodstream. Factor H (FH) is an important regulatory protein of the complement system. In this study, ExPEC was found to bind FH from serum. However, the mechanisms of ExPEC binding to FH and then resistance to complement-mediated attacks remain unclear. Here, a method that combined desthiobiotin pull-down and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was used to identify the FH-binding membrane proteins of ExPEC. Seven identified proteins, which all were carbohydrate metabolic enzymes (CMEs), including acetate kinase, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase, fumarate reductase flavoprotein subunit, L-lactate dehydrogenase, dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase, phosphoenolpyruvate synthase, and pyruvate dehydrogenase, were verified to recruit FH from serum using GST pull-down and ELISA plate binding assay. The ELISA plate binding assay determined that these seven proteins bind to FH in a dose-dependent manner. Magnetic beads coupled with any one of seven proteins significantly reduced the FH recruitment of ExPEC (p < 0.05) Subsequently, immunofluorescence, colony blotting, and Western blotting targeting outer membrane proteins determined that these seven CMEs were located on the outer membrane of ExPEC. Furthermore, the FH recruitment levels and C3b deposition levels on bacteria were significantly increased and decreased in an FH-concentration-dependent manner, respectively (p < 0.05). The FH recruitment significantly enhanced the ability of ExPEC to resist the opsonophagocytosis of human macrophage THP-1 in an FH-concentration-dependent manner (p < 0.05), which revealed a new mechanism for ExPEC to escape complement-mediated killing. The identification of novel outer membrane-displayed CMEs which played a role in the FH recruitment contributes to the elucidation of the molecular mechanism of ExPEC pathogenicity.
PXD023468	33570763	Global analysis of lysine acetylome reveals the potential role of CCL18 in non-small cell lung cancer. 	Quantitative Analysis of Lysine Acetylation in A549 Cell Line	CCL18, acetylome, non-small cell lung cancer	C-C motif chemokine 18 (CCL18) belongs to the chemokine CC family and is predominantly secreted by M2-tumor-associated macrophages. It has been reported to be associated with various diseases and malignancies. Previous studies showed that CCL18 promotes metastasis by activating downstream kinases. However, it remains unknown whether CCL18 regulates post-translational modifications, other than phosphorylation, during tumorigenesis. Here, we demonstrate that CCL18 is up-regulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and is involved in regulating the lysine acetylome in A549 cells. Using the combination of SILAC labeling and high-efficiency acetylation enrichment methods, we identified 1372 lysine acetylation (Kac) sites on 796 proteins in CCL18-treated A549 cells. Among the identified Kac sites, 147 from 126 proteins were down-regulated and seven from five proteins were up-regulated with fold changes more than two and the p-value less than 0.05. Bioinformatics analysis further showed that the proteins with down-regulated acetylation play critical roles in glycolysis, oxidative phosphorylation, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and pentose phosphate pathway in A549 cells. These results suggest that CCL18 may be involved in the development of NSCLC by regulating acetylation of the proteins in many fundamental cellular processes, especially the metabolic reprogramming of tumor cells.
PXD021761	33571111	Structural basis for heme-dependent NCoR binding to the transcriptional repressor REV-ERBbeta. 	Structural basis for heme-dependent NCoR binding to the transcriptional repressor REV-ERBbeta	Ligand Binding, Orphan Nuclear Receptor, Protein-Protein Interactions, Rev-ERb	Heme is the endogenous ligand for the constitutively repressive REV-ERB nuclear receptors, REV-ERBalpha (NR1D1) and REV-ERBbeta (NR1D2), but how heme regulates REV-ERB activity remains unclear. Cellular studies indicate that heme is required for the REV-ERBs to bind the corepressor NCoR and repress transcription. However, fluorescence-based biochemical assays suggest that heme displaces NCoR; here, we show that this is due to a heme-dependent artifact. Using ITC and NMR spectroscopy, we show that heme binding remodels the thermodynamic interaction profile of NCoR receptor interaction domain (RID) binding to REV-ERBbeta ligand-binding domain (LBD). We solved two crystal structures of REV-ERBbeta LBD cobound to heme and NCoR peptides, revealing the heme-dependent NCoR binding mode. ITC and chemical cross-linking mass spectrometry reveals a 2:1 LBD:RID stoichiometry, consistent with cellular studies showing that NCoR-dependent repression of REV-ERB transcription occurs on dimeric DNA response elements. Our findings should facilitate renewed progress toward understanding heme-dependent REV-ERB activity.
PXD018244	33571422	The IMiD target CRBN determines HSP90 activity toward transmembrane proteins essential in multiple myeloma. 	The IMiD receptor CRBN determines quality control of transmembrane proteins	IMiDs, Lumos, chaperones, membrane proteins, multiple myeloma	The complex architecture of transmembrane proteins requires quality control (QC) of folding, membrane positioning, and trafficking as prerequisites for cellular homeostasis and intercellular communication. However, it has remained unclear whether transmembrane protein-specific QC hubs exist. Here we identify cereblon (CRBN), the target of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), as a co-chaperone that specifically determines chaperone activity of HSP90 toward transmembrane proteins by means of counteracting AHA1. This function is abrogated by IMiDs, which disrupt the interaction of CRBN with HSP90. Among the multiple transmembrane protein clients of CRBN-AHA1-HSP90 revealed by cell surface proteomics, we identify the amino acid transporter LAT1/CD98hc as a determinant of IMiD activity in multiple myeloma (MM) and present an Anticalin-based CD98hc radiopharmaceutical for MM radio-theranostics. These data establish the CRBN-AHA1-HSP90 axis in the biogenesis of transmembrane proteins, link IMiD activity to tumor metabolism, and nominate CD98hc and LAT1 as attractive diagnostic and therapeutic targets in MM.
PXD023818	33572424	Label-Free Quantitative Phosphoproteomics of the Fission Yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe Using Strong Anion Exchange- and Porous Graphitic Carbon-Based Fractionation Strategies. 	Label-Free Phosphoproteomics Profiling of Fission Yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe	LFQ phosphoproteomics, PGC, SAX, Schizosaccharomyces pombe	The phosphorylation of proteins modulates various functions of proteins and plays an important role in the regulation of cell signaling. In recent years, label-free quantitative (LFQ) phosphoproteomics has become a powerful tool to analyze the phosphorylation of proteins within complex samples. Despite the great progress, the studies of protein phosphorylation are still limited in throughput, robustness, and reproducibility, hampering analyses that involve multiple perturbations, such as those needed to follow the dynamics of phosphoproteomes. To address these challenges, we introduce here the LFQ phosphoproteomics workflow that is based on Fe-IMAC phosphopeptide enrichment followed by strong anion exchange (SAX) and porous graphitic carbon (PGC) fractionation strategies. We applied this workflow to analyze the whole-cell phosphoproteome of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Using this strategy, we identified 8353 phosphosites from which 1274 were newly identified. This provides a significant addition to the S. pombe phosphoproteome. The results of our study highlight that combining of PGC and SAX fractionation strategies substantially increases the robustness and specificity of LFQ phosphoproteomics. Overall, the presented LFQ phosphoproteomics workflow opens the door for studies that would get better insight into the complexity of the protein kinase functions of the fission yeast S. pombe.
PXD011174	33573002	The Effect of Dietary Lycopene Supplementation on Drip Loss during Storage of Lamb Meat by iTRAQ Analysis. 	Quantitative Analysis of Sheep Muscle Protein (iTRAQ) from College of Animal Science and Technology, China Agricultural University	Antioxidant, lamb meat, protein	This study was designed to investigate the impact of dietary lycopene (antioxidant extracted from tomato) supplementation on postmortem antioxidant capacity, drip loss and protein expression profiles of lamb meat during storage. Thirty male Hu lambs were randomly divided into three treatment groups and housed in individual pens and received 0, 200 or 400 mg.kg(-1) lycopene in their diet, respectively. All lambs were slaughtered after 3 months of fattening, and the longissimus thoracis (LT) muscle was collected for analyses. The results indicated that drip loss of LT muscle increased with storage days (P < 0.05). After storage for 7 days, significantly lower drip loss of meat was found in fed the lycopene-supplemented diet (P < 0.05). Dietary lycopene supplementation increased the activity of antioxidant enzymes (total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), catalase (CAT)) (P < 0.05) and decreased the thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) and carbonyl contents (P < 0.05). During the storage period (days 0, 5 and 7), a number of differentially abundant proteins (DAPs), including oxidases, metabolic enzymes, calcium channels and structural proteins, were identified based on iTRAQ data, with roles predominantly in carbon metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, cardiac muscle contraction and proteasome pathways, and which contribute to decreased drip loss of lamb meat during storage. It can be concluded that dietary lycopene supplementation increased antioxidant capacity after slaughter, and the decreased drip loss during postmortem storage might occur by changing the expression of proteins related to enzyme activity and cellular structure in lamb muscle.
PXD021329	33573382	Novel Insights into Quantitative Proteomics from an Innovative Bottom-Up Simple Light Isotope Metabolic (bSLIM) Labeling Data Processing Strategy. 	Novel insights into quantitative proteomics from an innovative bottom-up Simple Light Isotope Metabolic (bSLIM) labeling data processing strategy	12C, In vivo metabolic labeling, KNIME, OpenMS, data processing workflow, light carbon isotope, quantitative proteomics	Simple light isotope metabolic labeling (SLIM labeling) is an innovative method to quantify variations in the proteome based on an original in vivo labeling strategy. Heterotrophic cells grown in U-[(12)C] as the sole source of carbon synthesize U-[(12)C]-amino acids, which are incorporated into proteins, giving rise to U-[(12)C]-proteins. This results in a large increase in the intensity of the monoisotope ion of peptides and proteins, thus allowing higher identification scores and protein sequence coverage in mass spectrometry experiments. This method, initially developed for signal processing and quantification of the incorporation rate of (12)C into peptides, was based on a multistep process that was difficult to implement for many laboratories. To overcome these limitations, we developed a new theoretical background to analyze bottom-up proteomics data using SLIM-labeling (bSLIM) and established simple procedures based on open-source software, using dedicated OpenMS modules, and embedded R scripts to process the bSLIM experimental data. These new tools allow computation of both the (12)C abundance in peptides to follow the kinetics of protein labeling and the molar fraction of unlabeled and (12)C-labeled peptides in multiplexing experiments to determine the relative abundance of proteins extracted under different biological conditions. They also make it possible to consider incomplete (12)C labeling, such as that observed in cells with nutritional requirements for nonlabeled amino acids. These tools were validated on an experimental dataset produced using various yeast strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and growth conditions. The workflows are built on the implementation of appropriate calculation modules in a KNIME working environment. These new integrated tools provide a convenient framework for the wider use of the SLIM-labeling strategy.
PXD023527	33573689	ESCO2 promotes lung adenocarcinoma progression by regulating hnRNPA1 acetylation. 	Identification of proteins that interacted with ESCO2	ESCO2, HEK293T cells, LC-MS, combining silver staining	BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence indicates that metabolism reprogramming and abnormal acetylation modification play an important role in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) progression, although the mechanism is largely unknown. METHODS: Here, we used three public databases (Oncomine, Gene Expression Omnibus [GEO], The Cancer Genome Atlas [TCGA]) to analyze ESCO2 (establishment of cohesion 1 homolog 2) expression in LUAD. The biological function of ESCO2 was studiedusing cell proliferation, colony formation, cell migration, and invasion assays in vitro, and mouse xenograft models in vivo. ESCO2 interacting proteins were searched using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and mass spectrometry. Pyruvate kinase M1/2 (PKM) mRNA splicing assay was performed using RT-PCR together with restriction digestion. LUAD cell metabolism was studied using glucose uptake assays and lactate production. ESCO2 expression was significantly upregulated in LUAD tissues, and higher ESCO2 expression indicated worse prognosis for patients with LUAD. RESULTS: We found that ESCO2 promoted LUAD cell proliferation and metastasis metabolic reprogramming in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, ESCO2 increased hnRNPA1 (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A1) binding to the intronic sequences flanking exon 9 (EI9) of PKM mRNA by inhibiting hnRNPA1 nuclear translocation, eventually inhibiting PKM1 isoform formation and inducing PKM2 isoform formation. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm that ESCO2 is a key factor in promoting LUAD malignant progression and suggest that it is a new target for treating LUAD.
PXD018372	33574060	Molecular reprogramming and phenotype switching in Staphylococcus aureus lead to high antibiotic persistence and affect therapy success. 	Stress response within the host affects antibiotic persistence and treatment outcome in Staphylococcus aureus infections	Antibiotic Persistence	Staphylococcus aureus causes invasive infections and easily acquires antibiotic resistance. Even antibiotic-susceptible S. aureus can survive antibiotic therapy and persist, requiring prolonged treatment and surgical interventions. These so-called persisters display an arrested-growth phenotype, tolerate high antibiotic concentrations, and are associated with chronic and recurrent infections. To characterize these persisters, we assessed S. aureus recovered directly from a patient suffering from a persistent infection. We show that host-mediated stress, including acidic pH, abscess environment, and antibiotic exposure promoted persister formation in vitro and in vivo. Multiomics analysis identified molecular changes in S. aureus in response to acid stress leading to an overall virulent population. However, further analysis of a persister-enriched population revealed major molecular reprogramming in persisters, including down-regulation of virulence and cell division and up-regulation of ribosomal proteins, nucleotide-, and amino acid-metabolic pathways, suggesting their requirement to fuel and maintain the persister phenotype and highlighting that persisters are not completely metabolically inactive. Additionally, decreased aconitase activity and ATP levels and accumulation of insoluble proteins involved in transcription, translation, and energy production correlated with persistence in S. aureus, underpinning the molecular mechanisms that drive the persister phenotype. Upon regrowth, these persisters regained their virulence potential and metabolically active phenotype, including reduction of insoluble proteins, exhibiting a reversible state, crucial for recurrent infections. We further show that a targeted antipersister combination therapy using retinoid derivatives and antibiotics significantly reduced lag-phase heterogeneity and persisters in a murine infection model. Our results provide molecular insights into persisters and help explain why persistent S. aureus infections are so difficult to treat.
PXD018642	33575609	gNOMO: a multi-omics pipeline for integrated host and microbiome analysis of non-model organisms. 	gNOMO: an pipeline to integrate meta-omics data analisys of non-model organisms	cockroach, hindgut, metaproteomics, non-model organism	The study of bacterial symbioses has grown exponentially in the recent past. However, existing bioinformatic workflows of microbiome data analysis do commonly not integrate multiple meta-omics levels and are mainly geared toward human microbiomes. Microbiota are better understood when analyzed in their biological context; that is together with their host or environment. Nevertheless, this is a limitation when studying non-model organisms mainly due to the lack of well-annotated sequence references. Here, we present gNOMO, a bioinformatic pipeline that is specifically designed to process and analyze non-model organism samples of up to three meta-omics levels: metagenomics, metatranscriptomics and metaproteomics in an integrative manner. The pipeline has been developed using the workflow management framework Snakemake in order to obtain an automated and reproducible pipeline. Using experimental datasets of the German cockroach Blattella germanica, a non-model organism with very complex gut microbiome, we show the capabilities of gNOMO with regard to meta-omics data integration, expression ratio comparison, taxonomic and functional analysis as well as intuitive output visualization. In conclusion, gNOMO is a bioinformatic pipeline that can easily be configured, for integrating and analyzing multiple meta-omics data types and for producing output visualizations, specifically designed for integrating paired-end sequencing data with mass spectrometry from non-model organisms.
PXD022242	33576231	Multiple Classes of Antimicrobial Peptides in Amaranthus tricolor Revealed by Prediction, Proteomics, and Mass Spectrometric Characterization. 	Mass spectrometry guided by transcriptomics reveals multiple classes of predicted antimicrobial peptides in Amaranthus tricolor	Amaranthus tricolor, Antimicrobial peptides, peptidomics	Traditional medicinal plants are rich reservoirs of antimicrobial agents, including antimicrobial peptides (AMPs). Advances in genomic sequencing, in silico AMP predictions, and mass spectrometry-based peptidomics facilitate increasingly high-throughput bioactive peptide discovery. Herein, Amaranthus tricolor aerial tissue was profiled via MS-based proteomics/peptidomics, identifying AMPs predicted in silico. Bottom-up proteomics identified seven novel peptides spanning three AMP classes including lipid transfer proteins, snakins, and a defensin. Characterization via top-down peptidomic analysis of Atr-SN1, Atr-DEF1, and Atr-LTP1 revealed unexpected proteolytic processing and enumerated disulfide bonds. Bioactivity screening of isolated Atr-LTP1 showed activity against the high-risk ESKAPE bacterial pathogens (Enterococcus faecium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumannii, and Enterobacter cloacae). These results highlight the potential for integrating AMP prediction algorithms with complementary -omics approaches to accelerate characterization of biologically relevant AMP peptidoforms.
PXD022621	33576509	The UBA domain of conjugating enzyme Ubc1/Ube2K facilitates assembly of K48/K63-branched ubiquitin chains. 	The UBA domain of Ubc1 (Ube2K) Facilitates the Assembly of K48/K63-Branched Ubiquitin Chains	UBC1, UBC4, Ubiquitin, branched	The assembly of a specific polymeric ubiquitin chain on a target protein is a key event in the regulation of numerous cellular processes. Yet, the mechanisms that govern the selective synthesis of particular polyubiquitin signals remain enigmatic. The homologous ubiquitin-conjugating (E2) enzymes Ubc1 (budding yeast) and Ube2K (mammals) exclusively generate polyubiquitin linked through lysine 48 (K48). Uniquely among E2 enzymes, Ubc1 and Ube2K harbor a ubiquitin-binding UBA domain with unknown function. We found that this UBA domain preferentially interacts with ubiquitin chains linked through lysine 63 (K63). Based on structural modeling, in vitro ubiquitination experiments, and NMR studies, we propose that the UBA domain aligns Ubc1 with K63-linked polyubiquitin and facilitates the selective assembly of K48/K63-branched ubiquitin conjugates. Genetic and proteomics experiments link the activity of the UBA domain, and hence the formation of this unusual ubiquitin chain topology, to the maintenance of cellular proteostasis.
PXD020665	33576883	Identification of new proteins related with cisplatin resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Identification of new proteins related with cisplatin resistance in S. cerevisiae	Saccharomyces cerevisiae, cisplatin, resistance	The aim of this study is to select a cisplatin-resistant Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain to look for new molecular markers of resistance and the identification of mechanisms/interactions involved. A resistant strain was obtained after 80 days of cisplatin exposure. Then, total protein extraction, purification, and identification were carried out, in wild-type (wt) and resistant strains, by tandem mass spectrometry using a "nano HPLC-ESI-MS/MS" ion trap system. The increase in the exponentially modified protein abundance index (emPAI) (resistant vs wt strains) was calculated to study the increase in protein expression. "Genemania" software ( http://www.Genemania.org/ ) was used to compare the effects, functions, and protein interactions. KEGG tool was used for metabolic pathway analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD020665. The cisplatin-resistant strain showed 2.5 times more resistance than the wt strain for the inhibitory dose 50% (ID50) value (224 mug/ml vs 89.68 mug/ml) and 2.78 times more resistant for the inhibitory dose 90% (ID90) value (735.2 mug/ml vs 264.04 mug/ml). Multiple deregulated proteins were found in the glutathione and carbon metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, proteasome, glycolysis and gluconeogenesis, glyoxylate metabolism, fatty acid degradation pathway, citric acid cycle, and ribosome. The most overexpressed proteins in the cisplatin-resistant strain were related to growth and metabolism (QCR2, QCR1, ALDH4, ATPB, ATPA, ATPG, and PCKA), cell structure (SCW10), and thermal shock (HSP26). The results suggest that these proteins could be involved in cisplatin resistance. The resistance acquisition process is complex and involves the activation of multiple mechanisms that interact together. KEY POINTS: * Identification of new proteins/genes related to cisplatin resistance * Increased expression of QCR2/QCR1/ALDH4/ATPB/ATPA/SCW10/HSP26/ATPG and PCKA proteins * Multiple molecular mechanisms that interact together are involved in resistance.
PXD021470	33577304	A Reporter System for Cytosolic Protein Aggregates in Yeast. 	An engineered promoter-reporter for insoluble protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	cytosolic, unfolded protein response	Protein misfolding and aggregation are linked to neurodegenerative diseases of mammals and suboptimal protein expression within biotechnology. Tools for monitoring protein aggregates are therefore useful for studying disease-related aggregation and for improving soluble protein expression in heterologous hosts for biotechnology purposes. In this work, we developed a promoter-reporter system for aggregated protein on the basis of the yeast native response to misfolded protein. To this end, we first studied the proteome of yeast in response to the expression of folded soluble and aggregation-prone protein baits and identified genes encoding proteins related to protein folding and the response to heat stress as well as the ubiquitin-proteasome system that are over-represented in cells expressing an aggregation-prone protein. From these data, we created and validated promoter-reporter constructs and further engineered the best performing promoters by increasing the copy number of upstream activating sequences and optimization of culture conditions. Our best promoter-reporter has an output dynamic range of approximately 12-fold upon expression of the aggregation-prone protein and responded to increasing levels of aggregated protein. Finally, we demonstrate that the system can discriminate between yeast cells expressing different prion precursor proteins and select the cells expressing folded soluble protein from mixed populations. Our reporter system is thus a simple tool for diagnosing protein aggregates in living cells and should be applicable for the health and biotechnology industries.
PXD021251	33578797	SILAC-Based Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Oxaliplatin-Resistant Pancreatic Cancer Cells. 	SILAC-Based Quantitative Proteomics Identifies Multifactorial Mechanism of Oxaliplatin Resistance in Pancreatic Cancer Cells	SILAC, drug resistance, oxaliplatin, pancreatic cancer, quantitative proteomics	Oxaliplatin is a commonly used chemotherapeutic drug for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Understanding the cellular mechanisms of oxaliplatin resistance is important for developing new strategies to overcome drug resistance in pancreatic cancer. In this study, we performed a stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based quantitative proteomics analysis of oxaliplatin-resistant and sensitive pancreatic cancer PANC-1 cells. We identified 107 proteins whose expression levels changed (thresholds of 2-fold changes and p-value <= 0.05) between oxaliplatin-resistant and sensitive cells, which were involved in multiple biological processes, including DNA repair, cell cycle process, and type I interferon signaling pathway. Notably, myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) and Wntless homolog protein (WLS) were upregulated in oxaliplatin-resistant cells compared to sensitive cells, as confirmed by qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis. We further demonstrated the activation of AKT and beta-catenin signaling (downstream targets of MARCKS and WLS, respectively) in oxaliplatin-resistant PANC-1 cells. Additionally, we show that the siRNA-mediated suppression of both MARCKS and WLS enhanced oxaliplatin sensitivity in oxaliplatin-resistant PANC-1 cells. Taken together, our results provide insights into multiple mechanisms of oxaliplatin resistance in pancreatic cancer cells and reveal that MARCKS and WLS might be involved in the oxaliplatin resistance.
PXD023367	33578848	Loss of COX4I1 Leads to Combined Respiratory Chain Deficiency and Impaired Mitochondrial Protein Synthesis. 	Loss of COX4i1 leads to combined respiratory chain deficiency and impaired mitochondrial protein synthesis	COX, COX assembly, COX4, OXPHOS, biogenesis interdependency, complex I, complexome profiling, knock-out, mitochondria, mitochondrial protein synthesis	The oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system localized in the inner mitochondrial membrane secures production of the majority of ATP in mammalian organisms. Individual OXPHOS complexes form supramolecular assemblies termed supercomplexes. The complexes are linked not only by their function but also by interdependency of individual complex biogenesis or maintenance. For instance, cytochrome c oxidase (cIV) or cytochrome bc1 complex (cIII) deficiencies affect the level of fully assembled NADH dehydrogenase (cI) in monomeric as well as supercomplex forms. It was hypothesized that cI is affected at the level of enzyme assembly as well as at the level of cI stability and maintenance. However, the true nature of interdependency between cI and cIV is not fully understood yet. We used a HEK293 cellular model where the COX4 subunit was completely knocked out, serving as an ideal system to study interdependency of cI and cIV, as early phases of cIV assembly process were disrupted. Total absence of cIV was accompanied by profound deficiency of cI, documented by decrease in the levels of cI subunits and significantly reduced amount of assembled cI. Supercomplexes assembled from cI, cIII, and cIV were missing in COX4I1 knock-out (KO) due to loss of cIV and decrease in cI amount. Pulse-chase metabolic labeling of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-encoded proteins uncovered a decrease in the translation of cIV and cI subunits. Moreover, partial impairment of mitochondrial protein synthesis correlated with decreased content of mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. In addition, complexome profiling revealed accumulation of cI assembly intermediates, indicating that cI biogenesis, rather than stability, was affected. We propose that attenuation of mitochondrial protein synthesis caused by cIV deficiency represents one of the mechanisms, which may impair biogenesis of cI.
PXD020439	33579815	Colorectal Cancer-Derived CAT1-Positive Extracellular Vesicles Alter Nitric Oxide Metabolism in Endothelial Cells and Promote Angiogenesis. 	Tissue-exudative extracellular vesicles of colorectal cancer	extracellular vesicles	Accumulating scientific evidences strongly support the importance of cancer-derived extracellular vesicles (EV) in organization of tumor microenvironment and metastatic niches, which are also considered as ideal tools for cancer liquid biopsy. To uncover the full scope of proteomic information packaged within EVs secreted directly from human colorectal cancer, we cultured surgically resected viable tissues and obtained tissue-exudative EVs (Te-EV). Our quantitative profiling of 6,307 Te-EV proteins and 8,565 tissue proteins from primary colorectal cancer and adjacent normal mucosa (n = 17) allowed identification of a specific cargo in colorectal cancer-derived Te-EVs, high-affinity cationic amino acid transporter 1 (CAT1, P = 5.0 x 10(-3), fold change = 6.2), in addition to discovery of a new class of EV markers, VPS family proteins. The EV sandwich ELISA confirmed escalation of the EV-CAT1 level in plasma from patients with colorectal cancer compared with healthy donors (n = 119, P = 3.8 x 10(-7)). Further metabolomic analysis revealed that CAT1-overexpressed EVs drastically enhanced vascular endothelial cell growth and tubule formation via upregulation of arginine transport and downstream NO metabolic pathway. These findings demonstrate the potency of CAT1 as an EV-based biomarker for colorectal cancer and its functional significance on tumor angiogenesis. IMPLICATIONS: This study provides a proteome-wide compositional dataset for viable colorectal cancer tissue-derived EVs and especially emphasizes importance of EV-CAT1 as a key regulator of angiogenesis.
PXD019487	33579945	CTCF loss has limited effects on global genome architecture in Drosophila despite critical regulatory functions. 	CTCF loss has limited effects on genome architecture in Drosophila despite critical regulatory functions.	genome organization, silencers	Vertebrate genomes are partitioned into contact domains defined by enhanced internal contact frequency and formed by two principal mechanisms: compartmentalization of transcriptionally active and inactive domains, and stalling of chromosomal loop-extruding cohesin by CTCF bound at domain boundaries. While Drosophila has widespread contact domains and CTCF, it is currently unclear whether CTCF-dependent domains exist in flies. We genetically ablate CTCF in Drosophila and examine impacts on genome folding and transcriptional regulation in the central nervous system. We find that CTCF is required to form a small fraction of all domain boundaries, while critically controlling expression patterns of certain genes and supporting nervous system function. We also find that CTCF recruits the pervasive boundary-associated factor Cp190 to CTCF-occupied boundaries and co-regulates a subset of genes near boundaries together with Cp190. These results highlight a profound difference in CTCF-requirement for genome folding in flies and vertebrates, in which a large fraction of boundaries are CTCF-dependent and suggest that CTCF has played mutable roles in genome architecture and direct gene expression control during metazoan evolution.
PXD018133	33580899	Identification of differentially expressed proteins between fused and open sutures in sagittal nonsyndromic craniosynostosis during suture development by quantitative proteomic analysis. 	Identification of differentially expressed proteins between fused and open sutures in sagittal nonsyndromic craniosynostosis during suture development by quantitative proteomic analysis	bone, sagittal nonsyndromic craniosynostosis, tmt11plex	PURPOSE: Nonsyndromic craniosynostosis (NCS), the premature fusion of cranial sutures, results in an abnormal skull shape and is associated with a significant morbidity. Proteomics is a promising tool for disease characterization and biomarker discovery; we aimed to identify biologically relevant differentially expressed proteins for NCS. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Label-based quantitative proteomic profiling using TMT was performed on protein extracted from mesenchymal stem cells, osteoblasts and bone tissue of five open and five fused sutures of sagittal NCS (sNCS) and analyzed using quantitative LC-MS/MS based bottom-up proteomics. Differential protein abundance between open and fused sutures was determined to identify biologically relevant proteins of interest. Proteins were validated in an independent sample set by western blot and immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: We observed 838 differentially expressed proteins between open and fused sutures of sNCS. Decorin, lumican, and asporin were significantly downregulated while COL4A1 and TGFbeta1|1 were upregulated in fused compared to open sutures. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The majority of significantly differentially expressed proteins between open and fused sutures were observed in the proteomes of osteoblasts suggesting that protein changes contributing to premature sagittal suture fusion occur predominantly at the osteoblast level. Our findings suggest a possible ineffective ECM deposition at the osteoblast cell stage.
PXD012666	33581340	Global Profiling of 2-hydroxyisobutyrylome in Common Wheat. 	Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylatome profiling reveals extensive lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation in common wheat	Triticum aestivum L., function, lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, post-translational modification	As a novel post-translational modification (PTM), lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) is considered to regulate gene transcriptional activities in eukaryotic cells; however, the functions of Khib-modified proteins in plants remain unknown. Here, we report that Khib is an evolutionarily-conserved PTM in wheat and its progenitors. A total of 3348 Khib sites on 1074 proteins are identified in common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) by using affinity purification and mass spectroscopy of 2-hydroxyisobutyrylome. Bioinformatic data indicate that Khib-modified proteins participate in a wide variety of biological and metabolic pathways. Immunoprecipitation confirms that Khib-modified proteins are present endogenously. A comparison of Khib and other main PTMs shows that Khib-modified proteins are simultaneously modified by multiple PTMs. Using mutagenesis experiments and co-immunoprecipitation assays, we demonstrate that Khib on K206 of phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) is a key regulatory modification for its enzymatic activity, and mutation on K206 affects the interactions of PGK with its substrates. Furthermore, Khib modification of low-molecular-weight proteins is a response to the deacetylase inhibitors nicotinamide and trichostatin. This study provides evidence to promote our current understanding of Khib in wheat plants, including the cooperation between Khib and its metabolic regulation.
PXD023341	33582454	Expression, purification and immunological characterization of recombinant nucleocapsid protein fragment from SARS-CoV-2. 	Proteomic identification of recombinant nucleocapsid N protein 40 kDa fragment from SARS-CoV-2	Covid-19, N protein fragment, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Recombinant nucleocapsid protein, SARS-CoV-2, covid-19, prokaryotic expression, serological assay	Serological testing is important method for diagnosis of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Nucleocapsid (N) protein is the most abundant virus derived protein and strong immunogen. We aimed to find its efficient, low-cost production. SARS-CoV-2 recombinant fragment of nucleocapsid protein (rfNP; 58-419 aa) was expressed in E. coli in soluble form, purified and characterized biochemically and immunologically. Purified rfNP has secondary structure of full-length recombinant N protein, with high percentage of disordered structure (34.2%) and of beta-sheet (40.7%). rfNP was tested in immunoblot using sera of COVID-19 convalescent patients. ELISA was optimized with sera of RT-PCR confirmed positive symptomatic patients and healthy individuals. IgG detection sensitivity was 96% (47/50) and specificity 97% (67/68), while IgM detection was slightly lower (94% and 96.5%, respectively). Cost-effective approach for soluble recombinant N protein fragment production was developed, with reliable IgG and IgM antibodies detection of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD022848	33582869	Paleoproteomic profiling of organic residues on prehistoric pottery from Malta. 	Proteomic investigation of organic residues from ancient Barija pottery reveals dietary habits during Maltese Bronze Age	Paleoproteomic, ancient food proteins, deamidation, high-resolution mass spectrometry	Mass spectrometry-based approaches have been successfully applied for identifying ancient proteins in bones and other tissues. On the contrary, there are relatively few examples of the successful recovery and identification of archeological protein residues from ceramic artifacts; this is because ceramics contain much lower levels of proteins which are extensively degraded by diagenetic effects. In this paper, we report the results of the characterization of proteins extracted from pottery of the Maltese site of Bahrija, the guide-site for the Bahrija period (half of 9th-second half of eighth century BCE), recently identified as the final part of the Borg in-Nadur culture. Proteomic data here reported confirm that one of the major issue of these kind of studies is represented by contamination of animal and human agents that may complicate endogenous protein identification and authentication. The samples tested included a small group of ceramic forms, namely three tableware and six coarse ware thought to have been used in food preparation and/or storage. In this context, the limited availability of paleobotanical and archeozoological analyses may be compensated by the outcomes of the first proteomics profiling which, even if obtained on a limited selection of vessels, revealed the centrality of wheat in the diet of the ancient community of Bahrija. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier < PXD022848 > .
PXD019372	33583770	Integrated Glycoproteomics Identifies a Role of N-Glycosylation and Galectin-1 on Myogenesis and Muscle Development. 	Proteomic and glycoproteomic analysis of myogenesis	N-linked glycosylation, glycoproteomics, myogenesis	Many cell surface and secreted proteins are modified by the covalent addition of glycans that play an important role in the development of multicellular organisms. These glycan modifications enable communication between cells and the extracellular matrix via interactions with specific glycan-binding lectins and the regulation of receptor-mediated signaling. Aberrant protein glycosylation has been associated with the development of several muscular diseases, suggesting essential glycan- and lectin-mediated functions in myogenesis and muscle development, but our molecular understanding of the precise glycans, catalytic enzymes, and lectins involved remains only partially understood. Here, we quantified dynamic remodeling of the membrane-associated proteome during a time-course of myogenesis in cell culture. We observed wide-spread changes in the abundance of several important lectins and enzymes facilitating glycan biosynthesis. Glycomics-based quantification of released N-linked glycans confirmed remodeling of the glycome consistent with the regulation of glycosyltransferases and glycosidases responsible for their formation including a previously unknown digalactose-to-sialic acid switch supporting a functional role of these glycoepitopes in myogenesis. Furthermore, dynamic quantitative glycoproteomic analysis with multiplexed stable isotope labeling and analysis of enriched glycopeptides with multiple fragmentation approaches identified glycoproteins modified by these regulated glycans including several integrins and growth factor receptors. Myogenesis was also associated with the regulation of several lectins, most notably the upregulation of galectin-1 (LGALS1). CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of Lgals1 inhibited differentiation and myotube formation, suggesting an early functional role of galectin-1 in the myogenic program. Importantly, similar changes in N-glycosylation and the upregulation of galectin-1 during postnatal skeletal muscle development were observed in mice. Treatment of new-born mice with recombinant adeno-associated viruses to overexpress galectin-1 in the musculature resulted in enhanced muscle mass. Our data form a valuable resource to further understand the glycobiology of myogenesis and will aid the development of intervention strategies to promote healthy muscle development or regeneration.
PXD022537	33584633	Integrated Proteomic and Transcriptomic Analyses Reveal the Roles of Brucella Homolog of BAX Inhibitor 1 in Cell Division and Membrane Homeostasis of Brucella suis S2. 	Integrated proteomic and transcriptomic analyses reveal the roles of Brucella BI-1 in cell division and membrane homeostasis of Brucella suis S2	BSS2_RS00410, Brucella suis S2, transcriptomics proteomics	BAX inhibitor 1 (BI-1) is an evolutionarily conserved transmembrane protein first identified in a screening process for human proteins that suppress BAX-induced apoptosis in yeast cells. Eukaryotic BI-1 is a cytoprotective protein that suppresses cell death induced by multiple stimuli in eukaryotes. Brucella, the causative agent of brucellosis that threatens public health and animal husbandry, contains a conserved gene that encodes BI-1-like protein. To explore the role of the Brucella homolog of BI-1, BrBI, in Brucella suis S2, we constructed the brbI deletion mutant strain and its complemented strain. brbI deletion altered the membrane properties of Brucella suis S2 and decreased its resistance to acidic pH, H2O2, polymyxin B, and lincomycin. Additionally, deleting brbI led to defective growth, cell division, and viability in Brucella suis S2. We then revealed the effect of brbI deletion on the physiological characteristics of Brucella suis S2 via integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. The integrated analysis showed that brbI deletion significantly affected the expression of multiple genes at the mRNA and/or protein levels. Specifically, the affected divisome proteins, FtsB, FtsI, FtsL, and FtsQ, may be the molecular basis of the impaired cell division of the brbI mutant strain, and the extensively affected membrane proteins and transporter-associated proteins were consistent with the phenotype of the membrane properties' alterations of the brbI mutant strain. In conclusion, our results revealed that BrBI is a bacterial cytoprotective protein involved in membrane homeostasis, cell division, and stress resistance in Brucella suis S2.
PXD022377	33585414	Multi-Omics Driven Metabolic Network Reconstruction and Analysis of Lignocellulosic Carbon Utilization in Rhodosporidium toruloides. 	Multi-omics driven metabolic network reconstruction and analysis of lignocellulosic carbon utilization in Rhodosporidium toruloides	Rhodosporidium toruloides, genome-scale models, lignocellulosic biomass, metabolic networks, multi-omics	An oleaginous yeast Rhodosporidium toruloides is a promising host for converting lignocellulosic biomass to bioproducts and biofuels. In this work, we performed multi-omics analysis of lignocellulosic carbon utilization in R. toruloides and reconstructed the genome-scale metabolic network of R. toruloides. High-quality metabolic network models for model organisms and orthologous protein mapping were used to build a draft metabolic network reconstruction. The reconstruction was manually curated to build a metabolic model using functional annotation and multi-omics data including transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and RB-TDNA sequencing. The multi-omics data and metabolic model were used to investigate R. toruloides metabolism including lipid accumulation and lignocellulosic carbon utilization. The developed metabolic model was validated against high-throughput growth phenotyping and gene fitness data, and further refined to resolve the inconsistencies between prediction and data. We believe that this is the most complete and accurate metabolic network model available for R. toruloides to date.
PXD015355	33586340	Myogenesis modelled by human pluripotent stem cells: a multi-omic study of Duchenne myopathy early onset. 	Myogenesis modelled by human pluripotent stem cells uncovers Duchenne muscular dystrophy phenotypes prior to skeletal muscle commitment	DMD, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, TMT, hiPSCs	BACKGROUND: Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) causes severe disability of children and death of young men, with an incidence of approximately 1/5000 male births. Symptoms appear in early childhood, with a diagnosis made mostly around 4 years old, a time where the amount of muscle damage is already significant, preventing early therapeutic interventions that could be more efficient at halting disease progression. In the meantime, the precise moment at which disease phenotypes arise-even asymptomatically-is still unknown. Thus, there is a critical need to better define DMD onset as well as its first manifestations, which could help identify early disease biomarkers and novel therapeutic targets. METHODS: We have used both human tissue-derived myoblasts and human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) from DMD patients to model skeletal myogenesis and compared their differentiation dynamics with that of healthy control cells by a comprehensive multi-omic analysis at seven time points. Results were strengthened with the analysis of isogenic CRISPR-edited human embryonic stem cells and through comparisons against published transcriptomic and proteomic datasets from human DMD muscles. The study was completed with DMD knockdown/rescue experiments in hiPSC-derived skeletal muscle progenitor cells and adenosine triphosphate measurement in hiPSC-derived myotubes. RESULTS: Transcriptome and miRnome comparisons combined with protein analyses demonstrated that hiPSC differentiation (i) leads to embryonic/foetal myotubes that mimic described DMD phenotypes at the differentiation endpoint and (ii) homogeneously and robustly recapitulates key developmental steps-mesoderm, somite, and skeletal muscle. Starting at the somite stage, DMD dysregulations concerned almost 10% of the transcriptome. These include mitochondrial genes whose dysregulations escalate during differentiation. We also describe fibrosis as an intrinsic feature of DMD skeletal muscle cells that begins early during myogenesis. All the omics data are available online for exploration through a graphical interface at https://muscle-dmd.omics.ovh/. CONCLUSIONS: Our data argue for an early developmental manifestation of DMD whose onset is triggered before the entry into the skeletal muscle compartment, data leading to a necessary reconsideration of dystrophin roles during muscle development. This hiPSC model of skeletal muscle differentiation offers the possibility to explore these functions as well as find earlier DMD biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
PXD022398	33588107	Proteomic characterization of the pellicle of Toxoplasma gondii. 	Proteomic characterization of the pellicle of Toxoplasma gondii	SRS, Toxoplasma, adhesion, pellicle, protein quantification	Toxoplasma gondii is one of the most successful intracellular parasites in the world. The dynamic, adhesion, invasion, and even replication capabilities of Toxoplasma are based on dynamic machinery located in the pellicle, a three membrane complex that surrounds the parasite. Among the proteins that carry out these processes are inner membrane complex (IMC) proteins, gliding-associated proteins (GAP), diverse myosins, actin, tubulin, and SRS proteins. Despite the importance of the pellicle, the knowledge of its composition is limited. Broad protein identification from an enriched pellicle fraction was obtained by independent digestion with trypsin and chymotrypsin and quantified by mass spectrometry. By trypsin digestion, 548 proteins were identified, while by chymotrypsin digestion, additional 22 proteins were identified. Besides, a group of "sequences related to SAG1" proteins (SRS) were detected together with unidentified new proteins. From identified SRS proteins, SRS51 was chosen for analysis and modeling as its similarities with crystallized adhesion proteins, exhibiting the presence of a spatial groove that is apparently involved in adhesion and cell invasion. As SRS proteins have been reported to be involved in the activation of the host's immune response, further studies could consider them as targets in the design of vaccines or of drugs against Toxoplasma. SIGNIFICANCE: To date, the proteomic composition of the pellicle of Toxoplasma is unknown. Most proteins reported in Toxoplasma pellicle have been poorly studied, and many others remain unidentified. Herein, a group of new SRS proteins is described. Some SRS proteins previously described from pellicle fraction have adhesion properties to the host cell membrane, so their study would provide data related to invasion mechanism and to open possibilities for considering them as targets in the design of immunoprotective strategies or the design of new pharmacological treatments.
PXD021878	33589708	Arginine glycosylation enhances methylglyoxal detoxification. 	Arg-GlcNAcylation of Salmonella proteins	Arg-GlcNAcylation, Effectors, Glycosylation, Salmonella	Type III secretion system effector proteins have primarily been characterized for their interactions with host cell proteins and their ability to disrupt host signaling pathways. We are testing the hypothesis that some effectors are active within the bacterium, where they modulate bacterial signal transduction and physiology. We previously determined that the Citrobacter rodentium effector NleB possesses an intra-bacterial glycosyltransferase activity that increases glutathione synthetase activity to protect the bacterium from oxidative stress. Here we investigated the potential intra-bacterial activities of NleB orthologs in Salmonella enterica and found that SseK1 and SseK3 mediate resistance to methylglyoxal. SseK1 glycosylates specific arginine residues on four proteins involved in methylglyoxal detoxification, namely GloA (R9), GloB (R190), GloC (R160), and YajL (R149). SseK1-mediated Arg-glycosylation of these four proteins significantly enhances their catalytic activity, thus providing another important example of the intra-bacterial activities of type three secretion system effector proteins. These data are also the first demonstration that a Salmonella T3SS effector is active within the bacterium.
PXD017511	33590792	Identification of novel lipid droplet factors that regulate lipophagy and cholesterol efflux in macrophage foam cells. 	Identification of Novel Lipid Droplet Factors that Regulate Lipophagy and Cholesterol Efflux in Macrophage Foam Cells	Lipid Droplet, Macrophage foam cell	Macrophage autophagy is a highly anti-atherogenic process that promotes the catabolism of cytosolic lipid droplets (LDs) to maintain cellular lipid homeostasis. Selective autophagy relies on tags such as ubiquitin and a set of selectivity factors including selective autophagy receptors (SARs) to label specific cargo for degradation. Originally described in yeast cells, "lipophagy" refers to the degradation of LDs by autophagy. Yet, how LDs are targeted for autophagy is poorly defined. Here, we employed mass spectrometry to identify lipophagy factors within the macrophage foam cell LD proteome. In addition to structural proteins (e.g., PLIN2), metabolic enzymes (e.g., ACSL) and neutral lipases (e.g., PNPLA2), we found the association of proteins related to the ubiquitination machinery (e.g., AUP1) and autophagy (e.g., HMGB, YWHA/14-3-3 proteins). The functional role of candidate lipophagy factors (a total of 91) was tested using a custom siRNA array combined with high-content cholesterol efflux assays. We observed that knocking down several of these genes, including Hmgb1, Hmgb2, Hspa5, and Scarb2, significantly reduced cholesterol efflux, and SARs SQSTM1/p62, NBR1 and OPTN localized to LDs, suggesting a role for these in lipophagy. Using yeast lipophagy assays, we established a genetic requirement for several candidate lipophagy factors in lipophagy, including HSPA5, UBE2G2 and AUP1. Our study is the first to systematically identify several LD-associated proteins of the lipophagy machinery, a finding with important biological and therapeutic implications. Targeting these to selectively enhance lipophagy to promote cholesterol efflux in foam cells may represent a novel strategy to treat atherosclerosis.Abbreviations: ADGRL3: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor L3; agLDL: aggregated low density lipoprotein; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; APOA1: apolipoprotein A1; ATG: autophagy related; AUP1: AUP1 lipid droplet regulating VLDL assembly factor; BMDM: bone-marrow derived macrophages; BNIP3L: BCL2/adenovirus E1B interacting protein 3-like; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CIRBP: cold inducible RNA binding protein; COLGALT1: collagen beta(1-O)galactosyltransferase 1; CORO1A: coronin 1A; DMA: deletion mutant array; Faa4: long chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FUS: fused in sarcoma; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; HMGB2: high mobility group box 2: HSP90AA1: heat shock protein 90: alpha (cytosolic): class A member 1; HSPA5: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HSPA8: heat shock protein 8; HSPB1: heat shock protein 1; HSPH1: heat shock 105kDa/110kDa protein 1; LDAH: lipid droplet associated hydrolase; LIPA: lysosomal acid lipase A; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MACROH2A1: macroH2A.1 histone; MAP1LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCOLN1: mucolipin 1; NBR1: NBR1, autophagy cargo receptor; NPC2: NPC intracellular cholesterol transporter 2; OPTN: optineurin; P/S: penicillin-streptomycin; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PLIN3: perilipin 3; PNPLA2: patatin like phospholipase domain containing 2; RAB: RAB, member RAS oncogene family; RBBP7, retinoblastoma binding protein 7, chromatin remodeling factor; SAR: selective autophagy receptor; SCARB2: scavenger receptor class B, member 2; SGA: synthetic genetic array; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 (human T cell leukemia virus type I) binding protein 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; UBE2G2: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 G2; UVRAG: UV radiation resistance associated gene; VDAC2: voltage dependent anion channel 2; VIM: vimentin.
PXD022115	33590968	SARS-CoV-2 infection remodels the host protein thermal stability landscape. 	Thermal proteome profiling of temporal dynamics of infection of SARS-CoV-2	ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2, coronavirus, infection, thermal proteome profiling, virus	The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a global threat to human health and has compromised economic stability. In addition to the development of an effective vaccine, it is imperative to understand how SARS-CoV-2 hijacks host cellular machineries on a system-wide scale so that potential host-directed therapies can be developed. In situ proteome-wide abundance and thermal stability measurements using thermal proteome profiling (TPP) can inform on global changes in protein activity. Here we adapted TPP to high biosafety conditions amenable to SARS-CoV-2 handling. We discovered pronounced temporal alterations in host protein thermostability during infection, which converged on cellular processes including cell cycle, microtubule and RNA splicing regulation. Pharmacological inhibition of host proteins displaying altered thermal stability or abundance during infection suppressed SARS-CoV-2 replication. Overall, this work serves as a framework for expanding TPP workflows to globally important human pathogens that require high biosafety containment and provides deeper resolution into the molecular changes induced by SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD018022	33591270	Proximity proteomics in a marine diatom reveals a putative cell surface-to-chloroplast iron trafficking pathway. 	Quantitative proximity proteomics suggests a phytotransferrin-mediated cell surface-to-chloroplast iron trafficking axis in marine diatoms	APEX2, Chloroplast, Diatoms, Endocytosis, Iron cycle, Metal trafficking, Ocean, Phaeodactylum tricornutum, Phytotransferrin, Proximity proteomics	Iron is a biochemically critical metal cofactor in enzymes involved in photosynthesis, cellular respiration, nitrate assimilation, nitrogen fixation, and reactive oxygen species defense. Marine microeukaryotes have evolved a phytotransferrin-based iron uptake system to cope with iron scarcity, a major factor limiting primary productivity in the global ocean. Diatom phytotransferrin is endocytosed; however, proteins downstream of this environmentally ubiquitous iron receptor are unknown. We applied engineered ascorbate peroxidase APEX2-based subcellular proteomics to catalog proximal proteins of phytotransferrin in the model marine diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. Proteins encoded by poorly characterized iron-sensitive genes were identified including three that are expressed from a chromosomal gene cluster. Two of them showed unambiguous colocalization with phytotransferrin adjacent to the chloroplast. Further phylogenetic, domain, and biochemical analyses suggest their involvement in intracellular iron processing. Proximity proteomics holds enormous potential to glean new insights into iron acquisition pathways and beyond in these evolutionarily, ecologically, and biotechnologically important microalgae.
PXD022831	33592142	Improving Spectral Validation Rates in Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Data Analysis. 	Improving spectral validation rates in hydrogen-deuterium exchange data analysis.	Eg5, HDX-MS, HX-DEAL, HX-PIPE, Mass-Spec Studio, Proteasome	The data analysis practices associated with hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HX-MS) lag far behind that of most other MS-based protein analysis tools. A reliance on external tools from other fields and a persistent need for manual data validation restrict this powerful technology to the expert user. Here, we provide an extensive upgrade to the HX data analysis suite available in the Mass Spec Studio in the form of two new apps (HX-PIPE and HX-DEAL), completing a workflow that provides an HX-tailored peptide identification capability, accelerated validation routines, automated spectral deconvolution strategies, and a rich set of exportable graphics and statistical reports. With these new tools, we demonstrate that the peptide identifications obtained from undeuterated samples generated at the start of a project contain information that helps predict and control the extent of manual validation required. We also uncover a large fraction of HX-usable peptides that remains unidentified in most experiments. We show that automated spectral deconvolution routines can identify exchange regimes in a project-wide manner, although they remain difficult to accurately assign in all scenarios. Taken together, these new tools provide a robust and complete solution suitable for the analysis of high-complexity HX-MS data.
PXD016586	33594057	Positioning of nucleosomes containing gamma-H2AX precedes active DNA demethylation and transcription initiation. 	High mobility group protein-mediated transcription requires DNA damage marker gamma-H2AX	DNA demethylation, FACT, H2A.X, HMGA2, R-Loops, TGFB1	In addition to nucleosomes, chromatin contains non-histone chromatin-associated proteins, of which the high-mobility group proteins are the most abundant. Chromatin-mediated regulation of transcription involves DNA methylation and histone modifications. However, the order of events and the precise function of high-mobility group proteins during transcription initiation remain unclear. Here we show that high-mobility group AT-hook 2 protein (HMGA2) induces DNA nicks at the transcription start site, which are required by the histone chaperone FACT complex to incorporate nucleosomes containing the histone variant H2A.X. Further, phosphorylation of H2A.X at S139 (gamma-H2AX) is required for repair-mediated DNA demethylation and transcription activation. The relevance of these findings is demonstrated within the context of TGFB1 signaling and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, suggesting therapies against this lethal disease. Our data support the concept that chromatin opening during transcriptional initiation involves intermediates with DNA breaks that subsequently require DNA repair mechanisms to ensure genome integrity.
PXD019828	33594190	A Casz1-NuRD complex regulates temporal identity transitions in neural progenitors. 	Casz1 interactome via BioID on primary mouse retinal cells	Casz1 Retina Neurogenesis NuRD complex	Neural progenitor cells undergo identity transitions during development to ensure the generation different types of neurons and glia in the correct sequence and proportions. A number of temporal identity factors that control these transitions in progenitor competence have been identified, but the molecular mechanisms underlying their function remain unclear. Here, we asked how Casz1, the mammalian orthologue of Drosophila castor, regulates competence during retinal development. We show that Casz1 is required to control the transition between neurogenesis and gliogenesis. Using BioID proteomics, we reveal that Casz1 interacts with the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complex in retinal cells. Finally, we show that both the NuRD and the polycomb repressor complexes are required for Casz1 to promote the rod fate and suppress gliogenesis. As additional temporal identity factors have been found to interact with the NuRD complex in other contexts, we propose that these factors might act through this common biochemical process to regulate neurogenesis.
PXD022679	33594971	One-shot analysis of translated mammalian lncRNAs with AHARIBO. 	One-shot analysis of translated mammalian lncRNAs with AHARIBO	LncRNA, RIBO-seq, RNA, Ribosome, proteogenomics, translation, translatome	A vast portion of the mammalian genome is transcribed as long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) acting in the cytoplasm with largely unknown functions. Surprisingly, lncRNAs have been shown to interact with ribosomes, encode peptides, or act as ribosome sponges. These functions still remain mostly undetected and understudied owing to the lack of efficient tools for genome-wide simultaneous identification of ribosome-associated and peptide-producing lncRNAs. Here, we present AHA-mediated RIBOsome isolation (AHARIBO), a method for the detection of lncRNAs either untranslated, but associated with ribosomes, or encoding small peptides. Using AHARIBO in mouse embryonic stem cells during neuronal differentiation, we isolated ribosome-protected RNA fragments, translated RNAs, and corresponding de novo synthesized peptides. Besides identifying mRNAs under active translation and associated ribosomes, we found and distinguished lncRNAs acting as ribosome sponges or encoding micropeptides, laying the ground for a better functional understanding of hundreds of lncRNAs.
PXD013730	33594975	HAT cofactor TRRAP modulates microtubule dynamics via SP1 signaling to prevent neurodegeneration. 	Trrap-dependent lysine acetylation prevents neurodegeneration by modulating Sp1 transcriptional activity	Lysine acetylation, Neurodegeneration, SP transcription factors, TRRAP, Wnt signalling	Brain homeostasis is regulated by the viability and functionality of neurons. HAT (histone acetyltransferase) and HDAC (histone deacetylase) inhibitors have been applied to treat neurological deficits in humans; yet, the epigenetic regulation in neurodegeneration remains elusive. Mutations of HAT cofactor TRRAP (transformation/transcription domain-associated protein) cause human neuropathies, including psychosis, intellectual disability, autism, and epilepsy, with unknown mechanism. Here we show that Trrap deletion in Purkinje neurons results in neurodegeneration of old mice. Integrated transcriptomics, epigenomics, and proteomics reveal that TRRAP via SP1 conducts a conserved transcriptomic program. TRRAP is required for SP1 binding at the promoter proximity of target genes, especially microtubule dynamics. The ectopic expression of Stathmin3/4 ameliorates defects of TRRAP-deficient neurons, indicating that the microtubule dynamics is particularly vulnerable to the action of SP1 activity. This study unravels a network linking three well-known, but up-to-date unconnected, signaling pathways, namely TRRAP, HAT, and SP1 with microtubule dynamics, in neuroprotection.
PXD023399	33596076	Comparing the Use of Magnetic Beads with Ultrafiltration for Ancient Dental Calculus Proteomics. 	Palmer et al:  Dental Method Comparison	Acetone precipitation, Archaeologica dairy proteinl, Beta-lactoglobulin, Casein, Deamidation, Dental calculus proteome, EDTA, HCl, Orbi-trap, QE, SP3, Ultrafiltration	Over the past two decades, proteomic analysis has greatly developed in application to the field of biomolecular archaeology, coinciding with advancements in LC-MS/MS instrumentation sensitivity and improvements in sample preparation methods. Recently, human dental calculus has received much attention for its well-preserved proteomes locked in mineralized dental plaque which stores information on human diets and the oral microbiome otherwise invisible to other biomolecular approaches. Maximizing proteome recovery in ancient dental calculus, available only in minute quantities and irreplaceable after destructive analysis, is of paramount importance. Here, we compare the more traditional ultrafiltration-based and acetone precipitation approaches with the newer paramagnetic bead approach in order to test the influence of demineralization acid on recovered proteome complexity obtained from specimens as well as the sequence coverages matched for significant proteins. We found that a protocol utilizing EDTA combined with paramagnetic beads increased proteome complexity, in some cases doubling the number of unique peptides and number of proteins matched, compared to protocols involving the use of HCl and either acetone precipitation or ultrafiltration. Although the increase in the number of proteins was almost exclusively of bacterial origin, a development that has implications for the study of diseases within these ancient populations, an increase in the peptide number for the dairy proteins beta-lactoglobulin and casein was also observed reflecting an increase in sequence coverage for these dietary proteins of interest. We also consider structural explanations for the discrepancies observed between these two key dietary proteins preserved in archaeological dental calculus.
PXD023492	33596081	Identification of Native Cross-Links in Bacillus subtilis Spore Coat Proteins. 	Identification of Native Cross-links in Bacillus subtilis Spore Coat Proteins	Bacillus subtilis, Disulfide bridges, Protein crosslinks, Spore coat	The resistance properties of the bacterial spores are partially due to spore surface proteins, ~30% of which are said to form an insoluble protein fraction. Previous research has also identified a group of spore coat proteins affected by spore maturation, which exhibit an increased level of interprotein cross-linking. However, the proteins and the types of cross-links involved, previously proposed based on indirect evidence, have yet to be confirmed experimentally. To obtain more insight into the structural basis of the proteinaceous component of the spore coat, we attempted to identify coat cross-links and the proteins involved using new peptide fractionation and bioinformatic methods. Young (day 1) and matured (day 5) Bacillus subtilis spores of wild-type and transglutaminase mutant strains were digested with formic acid and trypsin, and cross-linked peptides were enriched using strong cation exchange chromatography. The enriched cross-linked peptide fractions were subjected to Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance tandem mass spectrometry, and the high-quality fragmentation data obtained were analyzed using two specialized software tools, pLink2 and XiSearch, to identify cross-links. This analysis identified specific disulfide bonds between coat proteins CotE-CotE and CotJA-CotJC, obtained evidence of disulfide bonds in the spore crust proteins CotX, CotY, and CotZ, and identified dityrosine and epsilon-(gamma)-glutamyl-lysine cross-linked coat proteins. The findings in this Letter are the first direct biochemical data on protein cross-linking in the spore coat and the first direct evidence of the cross-linked building blocks of the highly ordered and resistant structure called the spore coat.
PXD022660	33596095	The ER protein Ema19 facilitates the degradation of nonimported mitochondrial precursor proteins. 	The ER protein Ema19 facilitates the degradation of non-imported mitochondrial precursor proteins	AE-MS, Mitochondria, Mitochondrial Protein Import	For the biogenesis of mitochondria, hundreds of proteins need to be targeted from the cytosol into the various compartments of this organelle. The intramitochondrial targeting routes these proteins take to reach their respective location in the organelle are well understood. However, the early targeting processes, from cytosolic ribosomes to the membrane of the organelle, are still largely unknown. In this study, we present evidence that an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Ema19, plays a role in this process. Mutants lacking Ema19 show an increased stability of mitochondrial precursor proteins, indicating that Ema19 promotes the proteolytic degradation of nonproductive precursors. The deletion of Ema19 improves the growth of respiration-deficient cells, suggesting that Ema19-mediated degradation can compete with productive protein import into mitochondria. Ema19 is the yeast representative of a conserved protein family. The human Ema19 homologue is known as sigma 2 receptor or TMEM97. Though its molecular function is not known, previous studies suggested a role of the sigma 2 receptor as a quality control factor in the ER, compatible with our observations about Ema19. More globally, our data provide an additional demonstration of the important role of the ER in mitochondrial protein targeting.
PXD018592	33596425	IL-22 promotes the formation of a MUC17 glycocalyx barrier in the postnatal small intestine during weaning. 	IL-22 promotes postnatal formation of MUC17 glycocalyx barrier that protects host enterocytes	MUC13, MUC17, enterocyte, glycocalyx, innate immunity, intestine, microbiota, microvilli, mucin	The intestine is under constant exposure to chemicals, antigens, and microorganisms from the external environment. Apical aspects of transporting epithelial cells (enterocytes) form a brush-border membrane (BBM), shaped by packed microvilli coated with a dense glycocalyx. We present evidence showing that the glycocalyx forms an epithelial barrier that prevents exogenous molecules and live bacteria from gaining access to BBM. We use a multi-omics approach to investigate the function and regulation of membrane mucins exposed on the BBM during postnatal development of the mouse small intestine. Muc17 is identified as a major membrane mucin in the glycocalyx that is specifically upregulated by IL-22 as part of an epithelial defense repertoire during weaning. High levels of IL-22 at time of weaning reprogram neonatal postmitotic progenitor enterocytes to differentiate into Muc17-expressing enterocytes, as found in the adult intestine during homeostasis. Our findings propose a role for Muc17 in epithelial barrier function in the small intestine.
PXD022866	33597936	Comprehensive Succinylome Profiling Reveals the Pivotal Role of Lysine Succinylation in Energy Metabolism and Quorum Sensing of Staphylococcus epidermidis. 	Comprehensive Succinylome Profiling Reveals the Pivotal Role of Lysine Succinylation in Energy Metabolism and Quorum Sensing of Staphylococcus epidermidis	post-translational modification lysine succinylation Staphylococcus epidermidis energy metabolism succinyltransferase desuccinylase quorum sensing	BACKGROUND: Lysine succinylation is a newly identified posttranslational modification (PTM), which exists widely from prokaryotes to eukaryotes and participates in various cellular processes, especially in the metabolic processes. Staphylococcus epidermidis is a commensal bacterium in the skin, which attracts more attention as a pathogen, especially in immunocompromised patients and neonates by attaching to medical devices and forming biofilms. However, the significance of lysine succinylation in S. epidermidis proteins has not been investigated. OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to investigate the physiological and pathological processes of S. epidermidis at the level of PTM. Moreover, by analyzing previous succinylome datasets in various organisms, we tried to provide an in-depth understanding of lysine succinylation. METHODS: Using antibody affinity enrichment followed by LC-MS/MS analysis, we examined the succinylome of S. epidermidis (ATCC 12228). Then, bioinformatics analysis was performed, including Gene Ontology (GO), KEGG enrichment, motif characterization, secondary structure, protein-protein interaction, and BLAST analysis. RESULTS: A total of 1557 succinylated lysine sites in 649 proteins were identified in S. epidermidis (ATCC 12228). Among these succinylation proteins, GO annotation showed that proteins related to metabolic processes accounted for the most. KEGG pathway characterization indicated that proteins associated with the glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and citrate cycle (TCA cycle) pathway were more likely to be succinylated. Moreover, 13 conserved motifs were identified. The specific motif KsuD was conserved in model prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Succinylated proteins with this motif were highly enriched in the glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathway. One succinylation site (K144) was identified in S-ribosylhomocysteine lyase, a key enzyme in the quorum sensing system, indicating the regulatory role succinylation may play in bacterial processes. Furthermore, 15 succinyltransferases and 18 desuccinylases (erasers) were predicted in S. epidermidis by BLAST analysis. CONCLUSION: We performed the first comprehensive profile of succinylation in S. epidermidis and illustrated the significant role succinylation may play in energy metabolism, QS system, and other bacterial behaviors. This study may be a fundamental basis to investigate the underlying mechanisms of colonization, virulence, and infection of S. epidermidis, as well as provide a new insight into regulatory effects succinylation may lay on metabolic processes (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD022866).
PXD022756	33602229	Discovery and validation of FBLN1 and ANT3 as potential biomarkers for early detection of cervical cancer. 	human plasma sample parallel reaction monitoring	cervical cancer	BACKGROUND: To validate markers for cervical carcinoma (CC) and precancerous lesions related with HPV infections. METHODS: Three different cervical cancer cell lines C-33A, SiHa and Caski were used for secretome profiling by label-free quantitative proteomics. Cervical exfoliated cells and matching serum samples were collected from 284 patients with normal control (n = 75, 26.41 %), precancerous lesions (n = 88, 30.99 %) and early stage cervical squamous carcinoma (n = 121, 42.61 %). HPV subtyping and quantification was performed by PCR and hybridization. 20 candidate proteins identified in previous screening studies (tissue, plasma, cells) were quantified by ELISA. Finally, highly quantitative parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry was used to assess the specificities and sensitivities of candidate serum markers. RESULTS: While CC was found to be associated with high-risk HPV subtypes, serum antibodies for high risk HPV were not significantly related to the progression of cervical cancer. Significant differences between patient groups were detected for the four proteins CLU, APOA4, APOE and MLH3, but none would allow clinical application due to insufficient sensitivity and specificity and large variability. Subsequent proteomic secretome analysis of cervical cancer cell lines identified a set of 729 common proteins. Cross referencing this dataset with ELISA measurements revealed six candidate proteins of which two, FBLN1 and ANT3, showed co-occurrence with HPV infection (75.7 % and 85 %, respectively) and had promising diagnostic ability in terms of sensitivity and specificity. After the loss of E6/E7 by using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing, the content of ANT3 and FBLN1 in KoE6/E7 SiHa were downregulated, which indicated the expression of ANT3 and FBLN1 in cervical cancer may be affected by HPV infection. CONCLUSIONS: FBLN1 and ANT3 might be potential tumor- and HPV-associated serum markers.
PXD017921	33602268	Differential mitochondrial proteomic analysis of A549 cells infected with avian influenza virus subtypes H5 and H9. 	Differential Mitochondrial proteomics analysis of A549 cells infected with H5 and H9 subtypes of avian influenza viruses	influenza virus, mitochondria, two-dimensional electrophoresis	BACKGROUND: Both the highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 and low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) H9N2 viruses have been reported to cross species barriers to infect humans. H5N1 viruses can cause severe damage and are associated with a high mortality rate, but H9N2 viruses do not cause such outcomes. Our purpose was to use proteomics technology to study the differential expression of mitochondrial-related proteins related to H5N1 and H9N2 virus infections. METHODS: According to the determined viral infection titer, A549 cells were infected with 1 multiplicity of infection virus, and the mitochondria were extracted after 24 h of incubation. The protein from lysed mitochondria was analyzed by the BCA method to determine the protein concentration, as well as SDS-PAGE (preliminary analysis), two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and mass spectrometry. Differential protein spots were selected, and Western blotting was performed to verify the proteomics results. The identified proteins were subjected to GO analysis for subcellular localization, KEGG analysis for functional classification and signaling pathways assessment, and STRING analysis for functional protein association network construction. RESULTS: In the 2-D gel electrophoresis analysis, 227 protein spots were detected in the H5N1-infected group, and 169 protein spots were detected in the H9N2-infected group. Protein spots were further subjected to mass spectrometry identification and removal of redundancy, and 32 differentially expressed proteins were identified. Compared with the H9N2 group, the H5N1-infected group had 16 upregulated mitochondrial proteins and 16 downregulated proteins. The differential expression of 70-kDa heat shock protein analogs, short-chain enoyl-CoA hydratase, malate dehydrogenase, and ATP synthase was verified by Western blot, and the results were consistent with the proteomics findings. Functional analysis indicated that these differentially expressed proteins were primarily involved in apoptosis and metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with their expression in the H9N2 group, the differential expression of eight mitochondrial proteins in the H5N1 group led to host T cell activation, antigen presentation, stress response, ATP synthesis and cell apoptosis reduction, leading to higher pathogenicity of H5N1 than H9N2.
PXD019377	33603547	Identification of stress defensive proteins in common wheat-Thinopyron intermedium translocation line YW642 developing grains via comparative proteome analysis. 	Proteomic analysis of wheat during different stages	2-DE, proteomic analysis, wheat	Thinopyrum intermedium (2n = 6x = 42, E1E1E2E2XX) serves as an important gene source of desirable traits for genetic improvement of wheat cultivars resistant to stresses. This study used the comparative proteomic approach to identify stress defense related proteins in the developing grains of common wheat (Zhongmai 8601)-Thinopyron intermedium 7XL/7DS translocation line YW642 and to explore their potential values for improving wheat stress resistance. Two-dimensional electrophoresis identified 124 differentially accumulated protein spots representing 100 unique proteins, which mainly participated in stress defense, energy metabolism, protein metabolism and folding and storage protein synthesis. Among these, 16 were unique and 35 were upregulated in YW642. The upregulated DAPs were mainly involved in biotic and abiotic stress defense. Further cis-elements analysis of these stress-related DAP genes revealed that phytohormone responsive elements such as ABREs, G-box, CGTCA-motif and TGACG-motif, and environment responsive element As-1 were particularly abundant, which could play important roles in response to various stressors. Transcription expression analysis by RNA-seq and qRT-PCR demonstrated a large part of the stress-related DAP genes showed an upregulated expression in the early-to-middle stages of grain development. Our results proved that Thinopyron intermedium contains abundant stress responsive proteins that have potential values for the genetic improvement of wheat stress resistance.
PXD014404	33607292	Screening of Potential Biomarkers for Gastric Cancer with Diagnostic Value Using Label-free Global Proteome Analysis. 	Screening of Potential Biomarkers with Diagnostic Value in Gastric Cancer Using Label-free Global Proteome Analysis	Bioinformatics, Biomarkers, Diagnosis, Gastric cancer, Label-free, Prediction	Gastric cancer (GC) is known as a top malignant type of tumors worldwide. Despite the recent decrease in mortality rates, the prognosis remains poor. Therefore, it is necessary to find novel biomarkers with early diagnostic value for GC. In this study, we present a large-scale proteomic analysis of 30 GC tissues and 30 matched healthy tissues using label-free global proteome profiling. Our results identified 537 differentially expressed proteins, including 280 upregulated and 257 downregulated proteins. The ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) results indicated that the sirtuin signaling pathway was the most activated pathway in GC tissues whereas oxidative phosphorylation was the most inhibited. Moreover, the most activated molecular function was cellular movement, including tissue invasion by tumor cell lines. Based on IPA results, 15 hub proteins were screened. Using the receiver operating characteristic curve, most of hub proteins showed a high diagnostic power in distinguishing between tumors and healthy controls. A four-protein (ATP5B-ATP5O-NDUFB4-NDUFB8) diagnostic signature was built using a random forest model. The area under the curve (AUC) values of this model were 0.996 and 0.886 for the training and testing sets, respectively, suggesting that the four-protein signature has a high diagnostic power. This signature was further tested with independent datasets using plasma enzyme-linked immune sorbent assays, resulting in an AUC value of 0.778 for distinguishing GC tissues from healthy controls, and using immunohistochemical tissue microarray analysis, resulting in an AUC value of 0.805. In conclusion, this study identifies potential biomarkers and improves our understanding of the pathogenesis, providing novel therapeutic targets for GC.
PXD039113	33607295	Phosphoproteomics Reveals the AMPK Substrate Network in Response to DNA Damage and Histone Acetylation. 	Quantitative phosphosproteomics revealed substrate diversity of AMPK in response to DNA damage and its crosstalk with histone acetylation in cell apoptosis	AMPK, Phosphoproteomics	AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a conserved energy sensor that plays roles in diverse biological processes via phosphorylating various substrates. Emerging studies have demonstrated the regulatory roles of AMPK in DNA repair, but the underlying mechanisms remain to be fully understood. Herein, using mass spectrometry-based proteomic technologies, we systematically investigate the regulatory network of AMPK in DNA damage response (DDR). Our system-wide phosphoproteome study uncovers a variety of newly-identified potential substrates involved in diverse biological processes, whereas our system-wide histone modification analysis reveals a link between AMPK and histone acetylation. Together with these findings, we discover that AMPK promotes apoptosis by phosphorylating apoptosis-stimulating of p53 protein 2 (ASPP2) in an irradiation (IR)-dependent manner and regulates histone acetylation by phosphorylating histone deacetylase 9 (HDAC9) in an IR-independent manner. Besides, we reveal that disrupting the histone acetylation by the bromodomain BRD4 inhibitor JQ-1 enhances the sensitivity of AMPK-deficient cells to IR. Therefore, our study has provided a resource to investigate the interplay between phosphorylation and histone acetylation underlying the regulatory network of AMPK, which could be beneficial to understand the exact role of AMPK in DDR.
PXD020685	33608275	SUGAR-seq enables simultaneous detection of glycans, epitopes, and the transcriptome in single cells. 	Single cell glycosylation analysis (ScSUGAR-seq)	Glycosylation, RNA-seq, Single Cell	Multimodal single-cell RNA sequencing enables the precise mapping of transcriptional and phenotypic features of cellular differentiation states but does not allow for simultaneous integration of critical posttranslational modification data. Here, we describe SUrface-protein Glycan And RNA-seq (SUGAR-seq), a method that enables detection and analysis of N-linked glycosylation, extracellular epitopes, and the transcriptome at the single-cell level. Integrated SUGAR-seq and glycoproteome analysis identified tumor-infiltrating T cells with unique surface glycan properties that report their epigenetic and functional state.
PXD019494	33608280	The one-carbon pool controls mitochondrial energy metabolism via complex I and iron-sulfur clusters. 	The mitochondrial methylome is evolutionary conserved and regulated by cytosolic SAM	Drosophila, Methylation, Mitochondria, PRM	Induction of the one-carbon cycle is an early hallmark of mitochondrial dysfunction and cancer metabolism. Vital intermediary steps are localized to mitochondria, but it remains unclear how one-carbon availability connects to mitochondrial function. Here, we show that the one-carbon metabolite and methyl group donor S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) is pivotal for energy metabolism. A gradual decline in mitochondrial SAM (mitoSAM) causes hierarchical defects in fly and mouse, comprising loss of mitoSAM-dependent metabolites and impaired assembly of the oxidative phosphorylation system. Complex I stability and iron-sulfur cluster biosynthesis are directly controlled by mitoSAM levels, while other protein targets are predominantly methylated outside of the organelle before import. The mitoSAM pool follows its cytosolic production, establishing mitochondria as responsive receivers of one-carbon units. Thus, we demonstrate that cellular methylation potential is required for energy metabolism, with direct relevance for pathophysiology, aging, and cancer.
PXD018154	33608523	20S proteasomes secreted by the malaria parasite promote its growth. 	20S proteasomes exported by malaria parasite promote its growth	Proteasome, malaria, phosphorylation	Mature red blood cells (RBCs) lack internal organelles and canonical defense mechanisms, making them both a fascinating host cell, in general, and an intriguing choice for the deadly malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum (Pf), in particular. Pf, while growing inside its natural host, the human RBC, secretes multipurpose extracellular vesicles (EVs), yet their influence on this essential host cell remains unknown. Here we demonstrate that Pf parasites, cultured in fresh human donor blood, secrete within such EVs assembled and functional 20S proteasome complexes (EV-20S). The EV-20S proteasomes modulate the mechanical properties of naive human RBCs by remodeling their cytoskeletal network. Furthermore, we identify four degradation targets of the secreted 20S proteasome, the phosphorylated cytoskeletal proteins beta-adducin, ankyrin-1, dematin and Epb4.1. Overall, our findings reveal a previously unknown 20S proteasome secretion mechanism employed by the human malaria parasite, which primes RBCs for parasite invasion by altering membrane stiffness, to facilitate malaria parasite growth.
PXD019086	33608539	Deep learning the collisional cross sections of the peptide universe from a million experimental values. 	Deep learning the collisional cross sections of the peptide universe from a million experimental values	CCS, TIMS, deep learning, ion mobility	The size and shape of peptide ions in the gas phase are an under-explored dimension for mass spectrometry-based proteomics. To investigate the nature and utility of the peptide collisional cross section (CCS) space, we measure more than a million data points from whole-proteome digests of five organisms with trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS) and parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation (PASEF). The scale and precision (CV < 1%) of our data is sufficient to train a deep recurrent neural network that accurately predicts CCS values solely based on the peptide sequence. Cross section predictions for the synthetic ProteomeTools peptides validate the model within a 1.4% median relative error (R > 0.99). Hydrophobicity, proportion of prolines and position of histidines are main determinants of the cross sections in addition to sequence-specific interactions. CCS values can now be predicted for any peptide and organism, forming a basis for advanced proteomics workflows that make full use of the additional information.
PXD019294	33608542	Diatom fucan polysaccharide precipitates carbon during algal blooms. 	Spring phytoplankton bloom in the North Sea during the 2016 spring bloom	Metaproteomics, North Sea, Phytoplankton bloom	The formation of sinking particles in the ocean, which promote carbon sequestration into deeper water and sediments, involves algal polysaccharides acting as an adhesive, binding together molecules, cells and minerals. These as yet unidentified adhesive polysaccharides must resist degradation by bacterial enzymes or else they dissolve and particles disassemble before exporting carbon. Here, using monoclonal antibodies as analytical tools, we trace the abundance of 27 polysaccharide epitopes in dissolved and particulate organic matter during a series of diatom blooms in the North Sea, and discover a fucose-containing sulphated polysaccharide (FCSP) that resists enzymatic degradation, accumulates and aggregates. Previously only known as a macroalgal polysaccharide, we find FCSP to be secreted by several globally abundant diatom species including the genera Chaetoceros and Thalassiosira. These findings provide evidence for a novel polysaccharide candidate to contribute to carbon sequestration in the ocean.
PXD002470	33608577	Investigating an increase in Florida manatee mortalities using a proteomic approach. 	iTRAQ Manatee                 .	Manatee, iTRAQ Mass spectrometry	Two large-scale Florida manatee (Trichechus manatus latirostris) mortality episodes were reported on separate coasts of Florida in 2013. The east coast mortality episode was associated with an unknown etiology in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL). The west coast mortality episode was attributed to a persistent Karenia brevis algal bloom or 'red tide' centered in Southwest Florida. Manatees from the IRL also had signs of cold stress. To investigate these two mortality episodes, two proteomic experiments were performed, using two-dimensional difference in gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) LC-MS/MS. Manatees from the IRL displayed increased levels of several proteins in their serum samples compared to controls, including kininogen-1 isoform 1, alpha-1-microglobulin/bikunen precursor, histidine-rich glycoprotein, properdin, and complement C4-A isoform 1. In the red tide group, the following proteins were increased: ceruloplasmin, pyruvate kinase isozymes M1/M2 isoform 3, angiotensinogen, complement C4-A isoform 1, and complement C3. These proteins are associated with acute-phase response, amyloid formation and accumulation, copper and iron homeostasis, the complement cascade pathway, and other important cellular functions. The increased level of complement C4 protein observed in the red tide group was confirmed through the use of Western Blot.
PXD018150	33608974	The new kid on the block: a dominant-negative mutation of phototropin1 enhances carotenoid content in tomato fruits. 	Tomato phototropin1 fruit proteome	Mature green, Tomato fruit proteome, breaker and red ripe stages of ripening, carotenoids, chlorophyll degradation	Phototropins, the UVA-blue light photoreceptors, endow plants to detect the direction of light and optimize photosynthesis by regulating positioning of chloroplasts and stomatal gas exchange. Little is known about their functions in other developmental responses. A tomato Non-phototropic seedling1 (Nps1) mutant, bearing an Arg495His substitution in the vicinity of LOV2 domain in phototropin1, dominant-negatively blocks phototropin1 responses. The fruits of Nps1 mutant were enriched in carotenoids, particularly lycopene, compared with its parent, Ailsa Craig. On the contrary, CRISPR/CAS9-edited loss of function phototropin1 mutants displayed subdued carotenoids compared with the parent. The enrichment of carotenoids in Nps1 fruits is genetically linked with the mutation and exerted in a dominant-negative fashion. Nps1 also altered volatile profiles with high levels of lycopene-derived 6-methyl 5-hepten2-one. The transcript levels of several MEP and carotenogenesis pathway genes were upregulated in Nps1. Nps1 fruits showed altered hormonal profiles with subdued ethylene emission and reduced respiration. Proteome profiles showed a causal link between higher carotenogenesis and increased levels of protein protection machinery, which may stabilize proteins contributing to MEP and carotenogenesis pathways. The enhancement of carotenoid content by Nps1 in a dominant-negative fashion offers a potential tool for high lycopene-bearing hybrid tomatoes.
PXD023907	33609009	Size-exclusion chromatography allows the isolation of EVs from the filamentous fungal plant pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. vasinfectum (Fov). 	Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. vasinfectum (UP000030701) extracellular vesicle, secretome, and cell lysate proteomes	cotton, fungi, fusarium oxysporum	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are nano-sized compartments involved in cell communication and macromolecule transport that are well characterized in mammalian organisms. Fungal EVs transport virulence-related cargo and modulate the host immune response, but most work has been focused on human yeast pathogens. Additionally, the study of EVs from filamentous fungi has been hindered by the lack of protein markers and efficient isolation methods. In this study we performed the isolation and proteomic characterization of EVs from the filamentous cotton pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. vasinfectum (Fov). EVs were recovered from two different growth media, Czapek Dox and Saboraud's dextrose broth, and purified by size-exclusion chromatography. Our results show that the EV proteome changes depending on the growth medium but EV production remains constant. EVs contained proteins involved in polyketide synthesis, cell wall modifications, proteases and potential effectors. These results support a role in modulation of host-pathogen interactions for Fov EVs.
PXD022955	33613507	The Role of Pseudo-Orthocaspase (SyOC) of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 in Attenuating the Effect of Oxidative Stress. 	The proteolytically inactive orthocaspase of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 plays an important role during oxidative stress	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, cyanobacteria., metacaspases, orthocaspases, programmed cell death, pseudo-enzymes, stress	Caspases are proteases, best known for their involvement in the execution of apoptosis-a subtype of programmed cell death, which occurs only in animals. These proteases are composed of two structural building blocks: a proteolytically active p20 domain and a regulatory p10 domain. Although structural homologs appear in representatives of all other organisms, their functional homology, i.e., cell death depending on their proteolytical activity, is still much disputed. Additionally, pseudo-caspases and pseudo-metacaspases, in which the catalytic histidine-cysteine dyad is substituted with non-proteolytic amino acid residues, were shown to be involved in cell death programs. Here, we present the involvement of a pseudo-orthocaspase (SyOC), a prokaryotic caspase-homolog lacking the p10 domain, in oxidative stress in the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. To study the in vivo impact of this pseudo-protease during oxidative stress its gene expression during exposure to H2O2 was monitored by RT-qPCR. Furthermore, a knock-out mutant lacking the pseudo-orthocaspase gene was designed, and its survival and growth rates were compared to wild type cells as well as its proteome. Deletion of SyOC led to cells with a higher tolerance toward oxidative stress, suggesting that this protein may be involved in a pro-death pathway.
PXD021285	33613873	Proteomic profile of melanoma cell-derived small extracellular vesicles in patients' plasma: a potential correlate of melanoma progression. 	Molecular profiling of tumor-derived exosomes in plasma of patients with melanoma	high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS), melanoma cell-derived exosomes (MTEX), plasma, small extracellular vesicles (sEV), tumor-derived exosomes (TEX)	Molecular profiling of small extracellular vesicles (sEV) isolated from plasma of cancer patients emerges as promising strategy for biomarkers discovery. We investigated the proteomic profiles of sEV immunoselected using anti-CSPG4 antibodies from 15 melanoma patients' plasma. The proteomes of sEV separated into melanoma cell-derived (MTEX) and non-malignant cell-derived (NMTEX) were compared using high-resolution mass spectrometry. Paired analysis identified the MTEX-associated profile of 16 proteins that discriminated MTEX from NMETEX. We also identified the MTEX profile that discriminated between seven patients with no evidence of melanoma (NED) after therapy and eight with progressive disease (PD). Among 75 MTEX proteins overexpressed in PD patients, PDCD6IP (ALIX) had the highest discriminating value, while CNTN1 (contactin-1) was upregulated only in MTEX of NED patients. This is the first report documenting that proteomes of tumour-derived sEV in patients' plasma discriminate cancer from non-cancer and identify proteins with potential to serve as prognostic biomarkers in melanoma.
PXD017689	33614294	Osmotic stress in banana is relieved by exogenous nitric oxide. 	SK06_Banana: Proteomic analysis of nitric oxide in alleviating drought stress in banana	Banana, Drought, Nitric oxide, Reactive oxygen species	Drought is one of the severe environmental stresses threatening agriculture around the globe. Nitric oxide plays diverse roles in plant growth and defensive responses. Despite a few studies supporting the role of nitric oxide in plants under drought responses, little is known about its pivotal molecular amendment in the regulation of stress signaling. In this study, a label-free nano-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry approach was used to determine the effects of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) on polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced osmotic stress in banana roots. Plant treatment with SNP improved plant growth and reduced the percentage of yellow leaves. A total of 30 and 90 proteins were differentially identified in PEG+SNP against PEG and PEG+SNP against the control, respectively. The majority of proteins differing between them were related to carbohydrate and energy metabolisms. Antioxidant enzyme activities, such as superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase, decreased in SNP-treated banana roots compared to PEG-treated banana. These results suggest that the nitric oxide-induced osmotic stress tolerance could be associated with improved carbohydrate and energy metabolism capability in higher plants.
PXD023153	33614530	First Succinylome Profiling of Vibrio alginolyticus Reveals Key Role of Lysine Succinylation in Cellular Metabolism and Virulence. 	Succinylationin V alginolyticus virulence	Vibrio alginolyticus, lysine succinylation	Recent studies have shown that a key strategy of many pathogens is to use post-translational modification (PTMs) to modulate host factors critical for infection. Lysine succinylation (Ksuc) is a major PTM widespread in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, and is associated with the regulation of numerous important cellular processes. Vibrio alginolyticus is a common pathogen that causes serious disease problems in aquaculture. Here we used the affinity enrichment method with LC-MS/MS to report the first identification of 2082 lysine succinylation sites on 671 proteins in V. alginolyticus, and compared this with the lysine acetylation of V. alginolyticus in our previous work. The Ksuc modification of SodB and PEPCK proteins were further validated by Co-immunoprecipitation combined with Western blotting. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the identified lysine succinylated proteins are involved in various biological processes and central metabolism pathways. Moreover, a total of 1,005 (25.4%) succinyl sites on 502 (37.3%) proteins were also found to be acetylated, which indicated that an extensive crosstalk between acetylation and succinylation in V. alginolyticus occurs, especially in three central metabolic pathways: glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, TCA cycle, and pyruvate metabolism. Furthermore, we found at least 50 (7.45%) succinylated virulence factors, including LuxS, Tdh, SodB, PEPCK, ClpP, and the Sec system to play an important role in bacterial virulence. Taken together, this systematic analysis provides a basis for further study on the pathophysiological role of lysine succinylation in V. alginolyticus and provides targets for the development of attenuated vaccines.
PXD015152	33615182	Therapeutic Assessment of Targeting ASNS Combined with l-Asparaginase Treatment in Solid Tumors and Investigation of Resistance Mechanisms. 	Identification of critical therapeutic nodes to overcome Asparagine deprivation resistance in melanoma	Asparagine, leukemia	Asparagine deprivation by l-asparaginase (L-ASNase) is an effective therapeutic strategy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, with resistance occurring due to upregulation of ASNS, the only human enzyme synthetizing asparagine (Annu. Rev. Biochem. 2006, 75 (1), 629-654). l-Asparaginase efficacy in solid tumors is limited by dose-related toxicities (OncoTargets and Therapy 2017, pp 1413-1422). Large-scale loss of function genetic in vitro screens identified ASNS as a cancer dependency in several solid malignancies (Cell 2017, 170 (3), 564-576.e16. Cell 2017, 170 (3), 577-592.e10). Here we evaluate the therapeutic potential of targeting ASNS in melanoma cells. While we confirm in vitro dependency on ASNS silencing, this is largely dispensable for in vivo tumor growth, even in the face of asparagine deprivation, prompting us to characterize such a resistance mechanism to devise novel therapeutic strategies. Using ex vivo quantitative proteome and transcriptome profiling, we characterize the compensatory mechanism elicited by ASNS knockout melanoma cells allowing their survival. Mechanistically, a genome-wide CRISPR screen revealed that such a resistance mechanism is elicited by a dual axis: GCN2-ATF4 aimed at restoring amino acid levels and MAPK-BCLXL to promote survival. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of such nodes synergizes with l-asparaginase-mediated asparagine deprivation in ASNS deficient cells suggesting novel potential therapeutic combinations in melanoma.
PXD023572	33615197	Rituximab and obinutuzumab differentially hijack the B cell receptor and NOTCH1 signaling pathways. 	Rituximab and obinutuzumab differentially hijack the B-cell receptor and NOTCH1 signaling pathways.	CD20, Phosphoproteomics	The anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies rituximab and obinutuzumab differ in their mechanisms of action, with obinutuzumab evoking greater direct B cell death. To characterize the signaling processes responsible for improved B cell killing by obinutuzumab, we undertook a phosphoproteomics approach and demonstrate that rituximab and obinutuzumab differentially activate pathways downstream of the B cell receptor. Although both antibodies induce strong ERK and MYC activation sufficient to promote cell-cycle arrest and B cell death, obinutuzumab exceeds rituximab in supporting apoptosis induction by means of aberrant SYK phosphorylation. In contrast, rituximab elicits stronger anti-apoptotic signals by activating AKT, by impairing pro-apoptotic BAD, and by releasing membrane-bound NOTCH1 to up-regulate pro-survival target genes. As a consequence, rituximab appears to reinforce BCL2-mediated apoptosis resistance. The unexpected complexity and differences by which rituximab and obinutuzumab interfere with signaling pathways essential for lymphoma pathogenesis and treatment provide important impetus to optimize and personalize the application of different anti-CD20 treatments.
PXD021553	33617236	Advanced In Vivo Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry Platform to Characterize Proteome-Wide Protein Interactions. 	A simplified in vivo cross-linking mass spectrometry strategy for proteome-wide studies.	Click-chemistry, Cross-linking, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Structural Biology, in vivo Biochemistry	Chemical cross-linking (XL) coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) has become a powerful approach to probe the structure of protein assemblies. Although most of the applications concerned purified complexes, latest developments focus on large-scale in vivo studies. Pushing in this direction, we developed an advanced in vivo cross-linking mass spectrometry platform to study the cellular interactome of living bacterial cells. It is based on in vivo labeling and involves a one-step enrichment by click chemistry on a solid support. Our approach shows an impressive efficiency on Neisseria meningitidis, leading to the identification of about 3300 cross-links for the LC-MS/MS analysis of a biological triplicate using a benchtop high-resolution Orbitrap mass spectrometer. Highly dynamic multiprotein complexes were successfully captured and characterized in all bacterial compartments, showing the great potential and precision of our proteome-wide approach. Our workflow paves new avenues for the large-scale and nonbiased analysis of protein-protein interactions. All raw data, databases, and processing parameters are available on ProteomeXchange via PRIDE repository (data set identifier PXD021553).
PXD014892	33619264	The first Conus genome assembly reveals a primary genetic central dogma of conopeptides in C. betulinus. 	Conotoxin Exploitation from Conus betulinus	Conus, conotoxins, genome, multi-omics, peptide, transcript	Although there are various Conus species with publicly available transcriptome and proteome data, no genome assembly has been reported yet. Here, using Chinese tubular cone snail (C. betulinus) as a representative, we sequenced and assembled the first Conus genome with original identification of 133 genome-widely distributed conopeptide genes. After integration of our genomics, transcriptomics, and peptidomics data in the same species, we established a primary genetic central dogma of diverse conopeptides, assuming a rough number ratio of ~1:1:1:10s for the total genes: transcripts: proteins: post-translationally modified peptides. This ratio may be special for this worm-hunting Conus species, due to the high diversity of various Conus genomes and the big number ranges of conopeptide genes, transcripts, and peptides in previous reports of diverse Conus species. Only a fraction (45.9%) of the identified conotopeptide genes from our achieved genome assembly are transcribed with transcriptomic evidence, and few genes individually correspond to multiple transcripts possibly due to intraspecies or mutation-based variances. Variable peptide processing at the proteomic level, generating a big diversity of venom conopeptides with alternative cleavage sites, post-translational modifications, and N-/C-terminal truncations, may explain how the 133 genes and ~123 transcripts can generate thousands of conopeptides in the venom of individual C. betulinus. We also predicted many conopeptides with high stereostructural similarities to the putative analgesic omega-MVIIA, addiction therapy AuIB and insecticide ImI, suggesting that our current genome assembly for C. betulinus is a valuable genetic resource for high-throughput prediction and development of potential pharmaceuticals.
PXD018087	33619274	A meet-up of two second messengers: the c-di-AMP receptor DarB controls (p)ppGpp synthesis in Bacillus subtilis. 	A rendezvous of two second messengers: The c-di-AMP receptor protein DarB controls (p)ppGpp synthesis in Bacillus subtilis	Bacillus subtilis, DarB, RelA, c-di-AMP receptor, pull-down, second messengers	Many bacteria use cyclic di-AMP as a second messenger to control potassium and osmotic homeostasis. In Bacillus subtilis, several c-di-AMP binding proteins and RNA molecules have been identified. Most of these targets play a role in controlling potassium uptake and export. In addition, c-di-AMP binds to two conserved target proteins of unknown function, DarA and DarB, that exclusively consist of the c-di-AMP binding domain. Here, we investigate the function of the c-di-AMP-binding protein DarB in B. subtilis, which consists of two cystathionine-beta synthase (CBS) domains. We use an unbiased search for DarB interaction partners and identify the (p)ppGpp synthetase/hydrolase Rel as a major interaction partner of DarB. (p)ppGpp is another second messenger that is formed upon amino acid starvation and under other stress conditions to stop translation and active metabolism. The interaction between DarB and Rel only takes place if the bacteria grow at very low potassium concentrations and intracellular levels of c-di-AMP are low. We show that c-di-AMP inhibits the binding of DarB to Rel and the DarB-Rel interaction results in the Rel-dependent accumulation of pppGpp. These results link potassium and c-di-AMP signaling to the stringent response and thus to the global control of cellular physiology.
PXD023440	33619378	The major cap-binding protein eIF4E regulates lipid homeostasis and diet-induced obesity. 	Prevention of high fat diet induced obesity and associated disease by the major cap-binding protein	Obesity, eFT508, eIF4E, lipid homeostasis, translational control	Obesity is a global epidemic leading to increased mortality and susceptibility to comorbidities, with few viable therapeutic interventions. A hallmark of disease progression is the ectopic deposition of lipids in the form of lipid droplets in vital organs such as the liver. However, the mechanisms underlying the dynamic storage and processing of lipids in peripheral organs remain an outstanding question. Here, we show an unexpected function for the major cap-binding protein, eIF4E, in high-fat-diet-induced obesity. In response to lipid overload, select networks of proteins involved in fat deposition are altered in eIF4E-deficient mice. Specifically, distinct messenger RNAs involved in lipid metabolic processing and storage pathways are enhanced at the translation level by eIF4E. Failure to translationally upregulate these mRNAs results in increased fatty acid oxidation, which enhances energy expenditure. We further show that inhibition of eIF4E phosphorylation genetically-and by a potent clinical compound-restrains weight gain following intake of a high-fat diet. Together, our study uncovers translational control of lipid processing as a driver of high-fat-diet-induced weight gain and provides a pharmacological target to treat obesity.
PXD019516	33619526	Reprograming of sRNA target specificity by the leader peptide peTrpL in response to antibiotic exposure. 	Reprograming of sRNA target specificity by the leader peptide peTrpL in response to antibiotic exposure	Sinorhizobium meliloti, attenuator, multiresistance, posttranscriptional regulation, quantification, small proteins	Trans-acting regulatory RNAs have the capacity to base pair with more mRNAs than generally detected under defined conditions, raising the possibility that sRNA target specificities vary depending on the specific metabolic or environmental conditions. In Sinorhizobium meliloti, the sRNA rnTrpL is derived from a tryptophan (Trp) transcription attenuator located upstream of the Trp biosynthesis gene trpE(G). The sRNA rnTrpL contains a small ORF, trpL, encoding the 14-aa leader peptide peTrpL. If Trp is available, efficient trpL translation causes transcription termination and liberation of rnTrpL, which subsequently acts to downregulate the trpDC operon, while peTrpL is known to have a Trp-independent role in posttranscriptional regulation of antibiotic resistance mechanisms. Here, we show that tetracycline (Tc) causes rnTrpL accumulation independently of Trp availability. In the presence of Tc, rnTrpL and peTrpL act collectively to destabilize rplUrpmA mRNA encoding ribosomal proteins L21 and L27. The three molecules, rnTrpL, peTrpL, and rplUrpmA mRNA, form an antibiotic-dependent ribonucleoprotein complex (ARNP). In vitro reconstitution of this ARNP in the presence of competing trpD and rplU transcripts revealed that peTrpL and Tc cause a shift of rnTrpL specificity towards rplU, suggesting that sRNA target prioritization may be readjusted in response to changing environmental conditions.
PXD020828	33621079	Improved Proteomics-Based Drug Mechanism-of-Action Studies Using 16-Plex Isobaric Mass Tags. 	16-plex isobaric mass tags enable streamlined proteomics-based drug mechanism-of-action studies	2D-TPP, TMT, TMTPro, TPP, isobaric labeling, mPDP	Multiplexed quantitative proteomics enabled complex workflows to study the mechanisms by which small molecule drugs interact with the proteome such as thermal proteome profiling (TPP) or multiplexed proteome dynamics profiling (mPDP). TPP measures changes in protein thermal stability in response to drug treatment and thus informs on direct targets and downstream regulation events, while the mPDP approach enables the discovery of regulated protein synthesis and degradation events caused by small molecules and other perturbations. The isobaric mass tags available for multiplexed proteomics have thus far limited the efficiency and sensitivity by which such experiments could be performed. Here we evaluate a recent generation of 16-plex isobaric mass tags and demonstrate the sensitive and time efficient identification of Staurosporine targets in HepG2 cell extracts by recording full thermal denaturation/aggregation profiles of vehicle and compound treated samples in a single mass spectrometry experiment. In 2D-TPP experiments, isothermal titration over seven concentrations per temperature enabled comprehensive selectivity profiling of Staurosporine with EC50 values for kinase targets tightly matching to the kinobeads gold standard assay. Finally, we demonstrate time and condition-based multiplexing of dynamic SILAC labeling experiments to delineate proteome-wide effects of the molecular glue Indisulam on synthesis and degradation rates.
PXD022646	33621634	Translatomic profiling reveals novel self-restricting virus-host interactions during HBV infection. 	HpZ-interactome-analysis in hepatoma cells	HBV, HpZ, Interaction, MS.	BACKGROUND & AIMS: HBV remains a global threat to human health. It remains incompletely understood how HBV self-restricts in the host during most adult infections. Thus, we performed multi-omics analyses to systematically interrogate HBV-host interactions and the life cycle of HBV. METHODS: RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling were conducted with cell-based models for HBV replication and gene expression. The novel translational events or products hereby detected were then characterized, and functionally assessed in both cell and mouse models. Moreover, quasi-species analyses of HBV subpopulations were conducted with patients at immune tolerance or activation phases, using next- or third-generation sequencing. RESULTS: We identified EnhI-SL (Enhancer I-stem loop) as a new cis element in the HBV genome; mutations disrupting EnhI-SL were found to elevate viral polymerase expression. Furthermore, while re-discovering HpZ/P', a previously under-explored isoform of HBV polymerase, we also identified HBxZ, a novel short isoform of HBX. Having confirmed their existence, we functionally characterized them as potent suppressors of HBV gene expression and genome replication. Mechanistically, HpZ/P' was found to repress HBV gene expression partially by interacting with, and sequestering SUPV3L1. Activation of the host immune system seemed to reduce the abundance of HBV mutants deficient in HpZ/P' or with disruptions in EnhI-SL. Finally, SRSF2, a host RNA spliceosome protein that is downregulated by HBV, was found to promote the splicing of viral pre-genomic RNA and HpZ/P' biogenesis. CONCLUSION: This study has identified multiple self-restricting HBV-host interactions. In particular, SRSF2-HpZ/P' appeared to constitute another negative feedback mechanism in the HBV life cycle. Targeting host splicing machinery might thus represent a strategy to intervene in HBV-host interactions. LAY SUMMARY: There remain many unknowns about the natural history of HBV infection in adults. Herein, we identified new HBV-host mechanisms which could be responsible for self-restricting infections. Targeting these mechanisms could be a promising strategy for the treatment of HBV infections.
PXD020005	33622394	Discovery of novel community-relevant small proteins in a simplified human intestinal microbiome. 	Searching for the small unknowns - Discovery of novel sProteins in a simplified human intestinal microbiome	SIHUMIx, Small proteins (sProteins), human gut microbiome, metaproteomics, metatranscriptomics, proteogenomics	BACKGROUND: The intestinal microbiota plays a crucial role in protecting the host from pathogenic microbes, modulating immunity and regulating metabolic processes. We studied the simplified human intestinal microbiota (SIHUMIx) consisting of eight bacterial species with a particular focus on the discovery of novel small proteins with less than 100 amino acids (= sProteins), some of which may contribute to shape the simplified human intestinal microbiota. Although sProteins carry out a wide range of important functions, they are still often missed in genome annotations, and little is known about their structure and function in individual microbes and especially in microbial communities. RESULTS: We created a multi-species integrated proteogenomics search database (iPtgxDB) to enable a comprehensive identification of novel sProteins. Six of the eight SIHUMIx species, for which no complete genomes were available, were sequenced and de novo assembled. Several proteomics approaches including two earlier optimized sProtein enrichment strategies were applied to specifically increase the chances for novel sProtein discovery. The search of tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) data against the multi-species iPtgxDB enabled the identification of 31 novel sProteins, of which the expression of 30 was supported by metatranscriptomics data. Using synthetic peptides, we were able to validate the expression of 25 novel sProteins. The comparison of sProtein expression in each single strain versus a multi-species community cultivation showed that six of these sProteins were only identified in the SIHUMIx community indicating a potentially important role of sProteins in the organization of microbial communities. Two of these novel sProteins have a potential antimicrobial function. Metabolic modelling revealed that a third sProtein is located in a genomic region encoding several enzymes relevant for the community metabolism within SIHUMIx. CONCLUSIONS: We outline an integrated experimental and bioinformatics workflow for the discovery of novel sProteins in a simplified intestinal model system that can be generically applied to other microbial communities. The further analysis of novel sProteins uniquely expressed in the SIHUMIx multi-species community is expected to enable new insights into the role of sProteins on the functionality of bacterial communities such as those of the human intestinal tract. Video abstract.
PXD036365	33623102	Metabolic labeling with an alkyne probe reveals similarities and differences in the prenylomes of several brain-derived cell lines and primary cells. 	Thinking outside the CaaX-box: an unusual reversible prenylation on ALDH9A1	ALDH9A1, Prenyaltion, Prenylomics, lipidation	Protein prenylation involves the attachment of one or two isoprenoid group(s) onto cysteine residues positioned near the C-terminus. This modification is essential for many signal transduction processes. In this work, the use of the probe C15AlkOPP for metabolic labeling and identification of prenylated proteins in a variety of cell lines and primary cells is explored. Using a single isoprenoid analogue, 78 prenylated protein groups from the three classes of prenylation substrates were identified including three novel prenylation substrates in a single experiment. Applying this method to three brain-related cell lines including neurons, microglia, and astrocytes showed substantial overlap (25%) in the prenylated proteins identified. In addition, some unique prenylated proteins were identified in each type. Eight proteins were observed exclusively in neurons, five were observed exclusively in astrocytes and three were observed exclusively in microglia, suggesting their unique roles in these cells. Furthermore, inhibition of farnesylation in primary astrocytes revealed the differential responses of farnesylated proteins to an FTI. Importantly, these results provide a list of 19 prenylated proteins common to all the cell lines studied here that can be monitored using the C15AlkOPP probe as well as a number of proteins that were observed in only certain cell lines. Taken together, these results suggest that this chemical proteomic approach should be useful in monitoring the levels and exploring the underlying role(s) of prenylated proteins in various diseases.
PXD023586	33626357	Cytoplasmic cleavage of IMPA1 3' UTR is necessary for maintaining axon integrity. 	AP-MS of helicase Upf1 in PC12 cells	Ago2, HuD, IMPA1, Protein complex	The 3' untranslated regions (3' UTRs) of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) are non-coding sequences involved in many aspects of mRNA metabolism, including intracellular localization and translation. Incorrect processing and delivery of mRNA cause severe developmental defects and have been implicated in many neurological disorders. Here, we use deep sequencing to show that in sympathetic neuron axons, the 3' UTRs of many transcripts undergo cleavage, generating isoforms that express the coding sequence with a short 3' UTR and stable 3' UTR-derived fragments of unknown function. Cleavage of the long 3' UTR of Inositol Monophosphatase 1 (IMPA1) mediated by a protein complex containing the endonuclease argonaute 2 (Ago2) generates a translatable isoform that is necessary for maintaining the integrity of sympathetic neuron axons. Thus, our study provides a mechanism of mRNA metabolism that simultaneously regulates local protein synthesis and generates an additional class of 3' UTR-derived RNAs.
PXD012328	33627428	The regulatory enzymes and protein substrates for the lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation pathway. 	Kbhb proteome in 293 cells    .	Kbhb, PTMs	Metabolism-mediated epigenetic changes represent an adapted mechanism for cellular signaling, in which lysine acetylation and methylation have been the historical focus of interest. We recently discovered a beta-hydroxybutyrate-mediated epigenetic pathway that couples metabolism to gene expression. However, its regulatory enzymes and substrate proteins remain unknown, hindering its functional study. Here, we report that the acyltransferase p300 can catalyze the enzymatic addition of beta-hydroxybutyrate to lysine (Kbhb), while histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and HDAC2 enzymatically remove Kbhb. We demonstrate that p300-dependent histone Kbhb can directly mediate in vitro transcription. Moreover, a comprehensive analysis of Kbhb substrates in mammalian cells has identified 3248 Kbhb sites on 1397 substrate proteins. The dependence of histone Kbhb on p300 argues that enzyme-catalyzed acylation is the major mechanism for nuclear Kbhb. Our study thus reveals key regulatory elements for the Kbhb pathway, laying a foundation for studying its roles in diverse cellular processes.
PXD022045	33627638	Chronic mild stress-induced protein dysregulations correlated with susceptibility and resiliency to depression or anxiety revealed by quantitative proteomics of the rat prefrontal cortex. 	Prefrontal cortex proteomics of CMS-treated rats	Prefrontal cortex, chronic mild stress (CMS), rat	Chronic stress is a significant risk factor for depression as well as anxiety disorders. Yet, the stress-induced specific and common molecular dysregulations of these disorders have not been fully understood. Previously, we constructed a chronic mild stress (CMS) rat model to separate and obtain depression-susceptible, anxiety-susceptible, and insusceptible groups. In this study, the prefrontal cortical proteomes of the three stressed groups were comparatively profiled utilizing isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-coupled tandem mass spectrometry approach. A total of 212 protein dysregulations were identified, potentially correlating to susceptibility or resilience to CMS-induced depression or anxiety, and thus might serve as potential protein targets for further investigation. In addition, independent analysis by parallel reaction monitoring identified changes in Gfap, Rhog, Gnai2, Ppp1r1b, and Uqcrh; Tubb6, Urod, Cul1, Spred1, and Gpcpd1; Acadl, Ppp1r1a, Grm2, Mtor, Lsm8, Cplx2, and Tsta3 that were distinctly correlated to depression-susceptible, anxiety-susceptible, or insusceptible groups, respectively. This suggested that identical CMS had different effects on the protein regulation system of the rat prefrontal cortex. Collectively, the present proteomics study of the prefrontal cortex established a significant molecular basis and offered new insights into the specificity and commonality of pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying susceptibility and resiliency to stress-induced depression or anxiety.
PXD021360	33627647	Interaction of 7SK with the Smn complex modulates snRNP production. 	Interaction of 7SK with the Smn complex modulates snRNP production	7SK, Smn complex, interaction, transcription	Gene expression requires tight coordination of the molecular machineries that mediate transcription and splicing. While the interplay between transcription kinetics and spliceosome fidelity has been investigated before, less is known about mechanisms regulating the assembly of the spliceosomal machinery in response to transcription changes. Here, we report an association of the Smn complex, which mediates spliceosomal snRNP biogenesis, with the 7SK complex involved in transcriptional regulation. We found that Smn interacts with the 7SK core components Larp7 and Mepce and specifically associates with 7SK subcomplexes containing hnRNP R. The association between Smn and 7SK complexes is enhanced upon transcriptional inhibition leading to reduced production of snRNPs. Taken together, our findings reveal a functional association of Smn and 7SK complexes that is governed by global changes in transcription. Thus, in addition to its canonical nuclear role in transcriptional regulation, 7SK has cytosolic functions in fine-tuning spliceosome production according to transcriptional demand.
PXD020659	33627648	Loss of NPC1 enhances phagocytic uptake and impairs lipid trafficking in microglia. 	Proteomic analysis of monocyte derived macrophages from Niemann-Pick disease type C patients	NPC, lysosomal storage disorder, macrophage	Niemann-Pick type C disease is a rare neurodegenerative disorder mainly caused by mutations in NPC1, resulting in abnormal late endosomal/lysosomal lipid storage. Although microgliosis is a prominent pathological feature, direct consequences of NPC1 loss on microglial function remain not fully characterized. We discovered pathological proteomic signatures and phenotypes in NPC1-deficient murine models and demonstrate a cell autonomous function of NPC1 in microglia. Loss of NPC1 triggers enhanced phagocytic uptake and impaired myelin turnover in microglia that precede neuronal death. Npc1(-/-) microglia feature a striking accumulation of multivesicular bodies and impaired trafficking of lipids to lysosomes while lysosomal degradation function remains preserved. Molecular and functional defects were also detected in blood-derived macrophages of NPC patients that provide a potential tool for monitoring disease. Our study underscores an essential cell autonomous role for NPC1 in immune cells and implies microglial therapeutic potential.
PXD011369	33627783	E3 ligase-inactivation rewires CBL interactome to elicit oncogenesis by hijacking RTK-CBL-CIN85 axis. 	Comparative analysis of WT CBL and CBL 70Z interactomes.	CBL, RTKs, endosomal trafficking, label-free quantitation, on-beads digestion., ubiquitination	Casitas B-lineage lymphoma (CBL) is a ubiquitin ligase (E3) that becomes activated upon Tyr371-phosphorylation and targets receptor protein tyrosine kinases for ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Deregulation of CBL and its E3 activity is observed in myeloproliferative neoplasms and other cancers, including breast, colon, and prostate cancer. Here, we explore the oncogenic mechanism of E3-inactive CBL mutants identified in myeloproliferative neoplasms. We show that these mutants bind strongly to CIN85 under normal growth conditions and alter the CBL interactome. Lack of E3 activity deregulates CIN85 endosomal trafficking, leading to an altered transcriptome that amplifies signaling events to promote oncogenesis. Disruption of CBL mutant interactions with EGFR or CIN85 reduces oncogenic transformation. Given the importance of the CBL-CIN85 interaction in breast cancers, we examined the expression levels of CIN85, CBL, and the status of Tyr371-phosphorylated CBL (pCBL) in human breast cancer tissue microarrays. Interestingly, pCBL shows an inverse correlation with both CIN85 and CBL, suggesting that high expression of inactivated CBL could coordinate with CIN85 for breast cancer progression. Inhibition of the CBL-CIN85 interaction with a proline-rich peptide of CBL that binds CIN85 reduced the proliferation of MDA-MB-231 cells. Together, these results provide a rationale for exploring the potential of targeting the EGFR-CBL-CIN85 axis in CBL-inactivated mutant cancers.
PXD023404	33627869	Sulfur sequestration promotes multicellularity during nutrient limitation. 	Dictyostelium DIA LFQ proteomics of vegetative and developmental growth	DIA hyper reaction monitoring, Dictyostelium discoideum, Spectronaut, non-starved (vegetative), reactive oxygen species, starved (developmental), sulfur metabolism	The behaviour of Dictyostelium discoideum depends on nutrients(1). When sufficient food is present these amoebae exist in a unicellular state, but upon starvation they aggregate into a multicellular organism(2,3). This biology makes D. discoideum an ideal model for investigating how fundamental metabolism commands cell differentiation and function. Here we show that reactive oxygen species-generated as a consequence of nutrient limitation-lead to the sequestration of cysteine in the antioxidant glutathione. This sequestration limits the use of the sulfur atom of cysteine in processes that contribute to mitochondrial metabolism and cellular proliferation, such as protein translation and the activity of enzymes that contain an iron-sulfur cluster. The regulated sequestration of sulfur maintains D. discoideum in a nonproliferating state that paves the way for multicellular development. This mechanism of signalling through reactive oxygen species highlights oxygen and sulfur as simple signalling molecules that dictate cell fate in an early eukaryote, with implications for responses to nutrient fluctuations in multicellular eukaryotes.
PXD022246	33630076	Exocyst subunit Exo70B2 is linked to immune signaling and autophagy. 	Exocyst Subunit Exo70B2 is Linked to Immune Signalling and Autophagy	ATG8, Exo70B2, Phosphorylation, autophagy, secretion, signalling, vacuole	During the immune response, activation of the secretory pathway is key to mounting an effective response, while gauging its output is important to maintain cellular homeostasis. The Exo70 subunit of the exocyst functions as a spatiotemporal regulator by mediating numerous interactions with proteins and lipids. However, a molecular understanding of the exocyst regulation remains challenging. We show that, in Arabidopsis thaliana, Exo70B2 behaves as a bona fide exocyst subunit. Conversely, treatment with the salicylic acid (SA) defence hormone analog benzothiadiazole (BTH), or the immunogenic peptide flg22, induced Exo70B2 transport into the vacuole. We reveal that Exo70B2 interacts with AUTOPHAGY-RELATED PROTEIN 8 (ATG8) via two ATG8-interacting motives (AIMs) and its transport into the vacuole is dependent on autophagy. In line with its role in immunity, we discovered that Exo70B2 interacted with and was phosphorylated by the kinase MPK3. Mimicking phosphorylation had a dual impact on Exo70B2: first, by inhibiting localization at sites of active secretion, and second, it increased the interaction with ATG8. Phosphonull variants displayed higher effector-triggered immunity (ETI) and were hypersensitive to BTH, which induce secretion and autophagy. Our results suggest a molecular mechanism by which phosphorylation diverts Exo70B2 from the secretory into the autophagy pathway for its degradation, to dampen secretory activity.
PXD022284	33630153	Formation and characterization of biofilms formed by salt-tolerant yeast strains in seawater-based growth medium. 	Formation and characterization of biofilms formed by salt tolerant yeast strains in seawater-based growth medium	Debaryomyces, Kluyveromyces, Schwanniomyces, biofilms, extracellular matrix composition, seawater	Yeast whole cells have been widely used in modern biotechnology as biocatalysts to generate numerous compounds of industrial, chemical, and pharmaceutical importance. Since many of the biocatalysis-utilizing manufactures have become more concerned about environmental issues, seawater is now considered a sustainable alternative to freshwater for biocatalytic processes. This approach plausibly commenced new research initiatives into exploration of salt-tolerant yeast strains. Recently, there has also been a growing interest in possible applications of microbial biofilms in the field of biocatalysis. In these complex communities, cells demonstrate higher resistance to adverse environmental conditions due to their embedment in an extracellular matrix, in which physical, chemical, and physiological gradients exist. Considering these two topics, seawater and biofilms, in this work, we characterized biofilm formation in seawater-based growth media by several salt-tolerant yeast strains with previously demonstrated biocatalytic capacities. The tested strains formed both air-liquid-like biofilms and biofilms on silicone surfaces, with Debaryomyces fabryi, Schwanniomyces etchellsii, Schwanniomyces polymorphus, and Kluyveromyces marxianus showing the highest biofilm formation. The extracted biofilm extracellular matrices mostly consisted of carbohydrates and proteins. The latter group was primarily represented by enzymes involved in metabolic processes, particularly the biosynthetic ones, and in the response to stimuli. Specific features were also found in the carbohydrate composition of the extracellular matrix, which were dependent both on the yeast isolate and the nature of formed biofilms. Overall, our findings presented herein provide a unique data resource for further development and optimization of biocatalytic processes and applications employing seawater and halotolerant yeast biofilms.Key points* Ability for biofilm formation of some yeast-halotolerant strains in seawater medium* ECM composition dependent on strain and biofilm-forming surface* Metabolic enzymes in the ECM with potential applications for biocatalysis.
PXD021270	33631116	Regional identity of human neural stem cells determines oncogenic responses to histone H3.3 mutants. 	Regional identity of human neural stem cells determinesoncogenic responses to histone 1H3.3 mutants	immunoprecipitation, maxquant, on-beads digest, q exactive plus	Point mutations within the histone H3.3 are frequent in aggressive childhood brain tumors known as pediatric high-grade gliomas (pHGGs). Intriguingly, distinct mutations arise in discrete anatomical regions: H3.3-G34R within the forebrain and H3.3-K27M preferentially within the hindbrain. The reasons for this contrasting etiology are unknown. By engineering human fetal neural stem cell cultures from distinct brain regions, we demonstrate here that cell-intrinsic regional identity provides differential responsiveness to each mutant that mirrors the origins of pHGGs. Focusing on H3.3-G34R, we find that the oncohistone supports proliferation of forebrain cells while inducing a cytostatic response in the hindbrain. Mechanistically, H3.3-G34R does not impose widespread transcriptional or epigenetic changes but instead impairs recruitment of ZMYND11, a transcriptional repressor of highly expressed genes. We therefore propose that H3.3-G34R promotes tumorigenesis by focally stabilizing the expression of key progenitor genes, thereby locking initiating forebrain cells into their pre-existing immature state.
PXD019748	33631195	Type I and type V procollagen triple helix uses different subsets of the molecular ensemble for lysine posttranslational modifications in the rER. 	Analysis of proline and lysine post-translational modifications of collagen from prolyl 3-hydroxylase 3 and lysyl hydroxylase 1 null mice	collagen, endoplasmic reticulum, lysyl hydroxylase, molecular chaperone, post-translational modifications, prolyl hydroxylase	Collagen is the most abundant protein in humans. It has a characteristic triple-helix structure and is heavily posttranslationally modified. The complex biosynthesis of collagen involves processing by many enzymes and chaperones in the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Lysyl hydroxylase 1 (LH1) is required to hydroxylate lysine for cross-linking and carbohydrate attachment within collagen triple helical sequences. Additionally, a recent study of prolyl 3-hydroxylase 3 (P3H3) demonstrated that this enzyme may be critical for LH1 activity; however, the details surrounding its involvement remain unclear. If P3H3 is an LH1 chaperone that is critical for LH1 activity, P3H3 and LH1 null mice should display a similar deficiency in lysyl hydroxylation. To test this hypothesis, we compared the amount and location of hydroxylysine in the triple helical domains of type V and I collagen from P3H3 null, LH1 null, and wild-type mice. The amount of hydroxylysine in type V collagen was reduced in P3H3 null mice, but surprisingly type V collagen from LH1 null mice contained as much hydroxylysine as type V collagen from wild-type mice. In type I collagen, our results indicate that LH1 plays a global enzymatic role in lysyl hydroxylation. P3H3 is also involved in lysyl hydroxylation, particularly at cross-link formation sites, but is not required for all lysyl hydroxylation sites. In summary, our study suggests that LH1 and P3H3 likely have two distinct mechanisms to recognize different collagen types and to distinguish cross-link formation sites from other sites in type I collagen.
PXD023183	33631294	Secretome and Comparative Proteomics of Yersinia pestis Identify Two Novel E3 Ubiquitin Ligases That Contribute to Plague Virulence. 	Proteome of Yersinia pestis 201 at 37 mimic human	Yersinia pestis	Plague is a zoonotic disease that primarily infects rodents via fleabite. Transmission from flea to host niches requires rapid adaption of Yersinia pestis to the outer environments to establish infection. Here, quantitative proteome and secretome analyses of Y. pestis grown under conditions mimicking the two typical niches, i.e., the mammalian host (Mh) and the flea vector (Fv), were performed to understand the adaption strategies of this deadly pathogen. A secretome of Y. pestis containing 308 proteins has been identified using TMT-labeling mass spectrometry analysis. Although some proteins are known to be secreted, such as the type III secretion substrates, PsaA and F1 antigen, most of them were found to be secretory proteins for the first time. Comparative proteomic analysis showed that membrane proteins, chaperonins and stress response proteins are significantly upregulated under the Mh condition, among which the previously uncharacterized proteins YP_3416~YP_3418 are remarkable because they cannot only be secreted but also translocated into HeLa cells by Y. pestis. We further demonstrated that the purified YP_3416 and YP_3418 exhibited E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in in vitro ubiquitination assay and yp_3416~3418 deletion mutant of Y. pestis showed significant virulence attenuation in mice. Taken together, our results represent the first Y. pestis secretome, which will promote the better understanding of Y. pestis pathogenesis, as well as the development of new strategies for treatment and prevention of plague.
PXD008611	33631430	SPA: A Quantitation Strategy for MS Data in Patient-derived Xenograft Models. 	Quantification strategy for PDX MS data	LFQ, PDX, standard mixture	With the development of mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics technologies, patient-derived xenograft (PDX), which is generated from the primary tumor of a patient, is widely used for the proteome-wide analysis of cancer mechanism and biomarker identification of a drug. However, the proteomics data interpretation is still challenging due to complex data deconvolution from the PDX sample that is a cross-species mixture of human cancerous tissues and immunodeficient mouse tissues. In this study, by using the lab-assembled mixture of human and mouse cells with different mixing ratios as a benchmark, we developed and evaluated a new method, SPA (shared peptide allocation), for protein quantitation by considering the unique and shared peptides of both species. The results showed that SPA could provide more convenient and accurate protein quantitation in human-mouse mixed samples. Further validation on a pair of gastric PDX samples (one bearing FGFR2 amplification while the other one not) showed that our new method not only significantly improved the overall protein identification, but also detected the differential phosphorylation of FGFR2 and its downstream mediators (such as RAS and ERK) exclusively. The tool pdxSPA is freely available at https://github.com/Li-Lab-Proteomics/pdxSPA.
PXD022936	33632841	Shulin packages axonemal outer dynein arms for ciliary targeting. 	Crosslinking/mass spectrometry (CLMS) analysis of Tetrahymena ODA-Q22MS1 complex	CLMS, bining factor, outer dynein arms (ODA), protein interaction	The main force generators in eukaryotic cilia and flagella are axonemal outer dynein arms (ODAs). During ciliogenesis, these ~1.8-megadalton complexes are assembled in the cytoplasm and targeted to cilia by an unknown mechanism. Here, we used the ciliate Tetrahymena to identify two factors (Q22YU3 and Q22MS1) that bind ODAs in the cytoplasm and are required for ODA delivery to cilia. Q22YU3, which we named Shulin, locked the ODA motor domains into a closed conformation and inhibited motor activity. Cryo-electron microscopy revealed how Shulin stabilized this compact form of ODAs by binding to the dynein tails. Our findings provide a molecular explanation for how newly assembled dyneins are packaged for delivery to the cilia.
PXD019606	33633830	A methodology for carbamate post-translational modification discovery and its application in Escherichia coli. 	E.coli Proteome Carbamate Search	Carbamate, E.coli, carbon dioxide	Carbon dioxide can influence cell phenotypes through the modulation of signalling pathways. CO2 regulates cellular processes as diverse as metabolism, cellular homeostasis, chemosensing and pathogenesis. This diversity of regulated processes suggests a broadly conserved mechanism for CO2 interactions with diverse cellular targets. CO2 is generally unreactive but can interact with neutral amines on protein under normal intracellular conditions to form a carbamate post-translational modification (PTM). We have previously demonstrated the presence of this PTM in a subset of protein produced by the model plant species Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we describe a detailed methodology for identifying new carbamate PTMs in an extracted soluble proteome under biologically relevant conditions. We apply this methodology to the soluble proteome of the model prokaryote Escherichia coli and identify new carbamate PTMs. The application of this methodology, therefore, supports the hypothesis that the carbamate PTM is both more widespread in biology than previously suspected and may represent a broadly relevant mechanism for CO2-protein interactions.
PXD015250	33634038	Innate Immune Responses of Galleria mellonella to Mycobacterium bovis BCG Challenge Identified Using Proteomic and Molecular Approaches. 	Humoral Immune response of Galleria mellonella to BCG and APP	galleria mellonella, humoral, innate immune response, mycobacterium	The larvae of the insect Galleria mellonella, have recently been established as a non-mammalian infection model for the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC). To gain further insight into the potential of this model, we applied proteomic (label-free quantification) and transcriptomic (gene expression) approaches to characterise the innate immune response of G. mellonella to infection with Mycobacterium bovis BCG lux over a 168 h time course. Proteomic analysis of the haemolymph from infected larvae revealed distinct changes in the proteome at all time points (4, 48, 168 h). Reverse transcriptase quantitative PCR confirmed induction of five genes (gloverin, cecropin, IMPI, hemolin, and Hdd11), which encoded proteins found to be differentially abundant from the proteomic analysis. However, the trend between gene expression and protein abundance were largely inconsistent (20%). Overall, the data are in agreement with previous phenotypic observations such as haemocyte internalization of mycobacterial bacilli (hemolin/beta-actin), formation of granuloma-like structures (Hdd11), and melanization (phenoloxidase activating enzyme 3 and serpins). Furthermore, similarities in immune expression in G. mellonella, mouse, zebrafish and in vitro cell-line models of tuberculosis infection were also identified for the mechanism of phagocytosis (beta-actin). Cecropins (antimicrobial peptides), which share the same alpha-helical motif as a highly potent peptide expressed in humans (h-CAP-18), were induced in G. mellonella in response to infection, giving insight into a potential starting point for novel antimycobacterial agents. We believe that these novel insights into the innate immune response further contribute to the validation of this cost-effective and ethically acceptable insect model to study members of the MTBC.
PXD012795	33635313	mTORC1 activity is supported by spatial association with focal adhesions. 	Proteomic analysis of Raptor-proximal proteins in U2OS cells	BioID, BioID2, MS, Q Exactive Plus, Raptor, mTORC1, osteosarcoma, proximity labelling, proximity-based biotinylation	The mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) integrates mitogenic and stress signals to control growth and metabolism. Activation of mTORC1 by amino acids and growth factors involves recruitment of the complex to the lysosomal membrane and is further supported by lysosome distribution to the cell periphery. Here, we show that translocation of lysosomes toward the cell periphery brings mTORC1 into proximity with focal adhesions (FAs). We demonstrate that FAs constitute discrete plasma membrane hubs mediating growth factor signaling and amino acid input into the cell. FAs, as well as the translocation of lysosome-bound mTORC1 to their vicinity, contribute to both peripheral and intracellular mTORC1 activity. Conversely, lysosomal distribution to the cell periphery is dispensable for the activation of mTORC1 constitutively targeted to FAs. This study advances our understanding of spatial mTORC1 regulation by demonstrating that the localization of mTORC1 to FAs is both necessary and sufficient for its activation by growth-promoting stimuli.
PXD023154	33635316	Lipidomic alteration of plasma in cured COVID-19 patients using ultra high-performance liquid chromatography with high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Lipidomics data of cured COVID-19 patients	COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, differential analysis, high-resolution mass spectrometry, lipidomics	BACKGROUND: The pandemic of novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has become a serious public health crisis worldwide. The symptoms of COVID-19 vary from mild to severe among different age groups, but the physiological changes related to COVID-19 are barely understood. METHODS: In the present study, a high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS)-based lipidomic strategy was used to characterize the endogenous plasma lipids for cured COVID-19 patients with different ages and symptoms. These patients were further divided into two groups: those with severe symptoms or who were elderly and relatively young patients with mild symptoms. In addition, automated lipidomic identification and alignment was conducted by LipidSearch software. Multivariate and univariate analyses were used for differential comparison. RESULTS: Nearly 500 lipid compounds were identified in each cured COVID-19 group through LipidSearch software. At the level of lipid subclasses, patients with severe symptoms or elderly patients displayed dramatic changes in plasma lipidomic alterations, such as increased triglycerides and decreased cholesteryl esters (ChE). Some of these differential lipids might also have essential biological functions. Furthermore, the differential analysis of plasma lipids among groups was performed to provide potential prognostic indicators, and the change in signaling pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Dyslipidemia was observed in cured COVID-19 patients due to the viral infection and medical treatment, and the discharged patients should continue to undergo consolidation therapy. This work provides valuable knowledge about plasma lipid markers and potential therapeutic targets of COVID-19 and essential resources for further research on the pathogenesis of COVID-19.
PXD019655	33635921	Protein kinase TgCDPK7 regulates vesicular trafficking and phospholipid synthesis in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Regulation of phospholipid synthesis and vesicular trafficking in Toxoplasma gondii by protein kinase TgCDPK7	CDPK7, Quantitative Phosphoproteomics, TMT labelling, Toxoplasma gondii	Apicomplexan parasites are causative agents of major human diseases. Calcium Dependent Protein Kinases (CDPKs) are crucial components for the intracellular development of apicomplexan parasites and are thus considered attractive drug targets. CDPK7 is an atypical member of this family, which initial characterization suggested to be critical for intracellular development of both Apicomplexa Plasmodium falciparum and Toxoplasma gondii. However, the mechanisms via which it regulates parasite replication have remained unknown. We performed quantitative phosphoproteomics of T. gondii lacking TgCDPK7 to identify its parasitic targets. Our analysis lead to the identification of several putative TgCDPK7 substrates implicated in critical processes like phospholipid (PL) synthesis and vesicular trafficking. Strikingly, phosphorylation of TgRab11a via TgCDPK7 was critical for parasite intracellular development and protein trafficking. Lipidomic analysis combined with biochemical and cellular studies confirmed that TgCDPK7 regulates phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) levels in T. gondii. These studies provide novel insights into the regulation of these processes that are critical for parasite development by TgCDPK7.
PXD015948	33636367	Global Landscape of Native Protein Complexes in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	Global Landscape of Native Protein Complexes in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803	Cyanobacterium, Photosynthesis, Protein Complexes, Protein-Protein Interaction, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803	Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 (hereafter: Synechocystis) is a model organism for studying photosynthesis, energy metabolism, and environmental stress. Although known as the first fully sequenced phototrophic organism, Synechocystis still has almost half of its proteome without functional annotations. In this study, by using co-fractionation coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), we define 291 multi-protein complexes, encompassing 24,092 protein-protein interactions (PPIs) among 2062 distinct gene products. This information not only reveals the roles of photosynthesis in metabolism, cell motility, DNA repair, cell division, and other physiological processes, but also shows how protein functions vary from bacteria to higher plants due to changes in interaction partners. It also allows us to uncover the functions of hypothetical proteins, such as Sll0445, Sll0446, and Sll0447 involved in photosynthesis and cell motility, and Sll1334 involved in regulation of fatty acid biogenesis. Here we present the most extensive PPI data for Synechocystis so far, which provide critical insights into fundamental molecular mechanisms in cyanobacteria.
PXD023051	33637534	Molecular architecture of the endocytic TPLATE complex. 	Molecular architecture of the endocytic TPLATE complex - part2 IP-MS dataset	IP-MS, TPLATE complex, TSET, structure	Eukaryotic cells rely on endocytosis to regulate their plasma membrane proteome and lipidome. Most eukaryotic groups, except fungi and animals, have retained the evolutionary ancient TSET complex as an endocytic regulator. Unlike other coatomer complexes, structural insight into TSET is lacking. Here, we reveal the molecular architecture of plant TSET [TPLATE complex (TPC)] using an integrative structural approach. We identify crucial roles for specific TSET subunits in complex assembly and membrane interaction. Our data therefore generate fresh insight into the differences between the hexameric TSET in Dictyostelium and the octameric TPC in plants. Structural elucidation of this ancient adaptor complex represents the missing piece in the coatomer puzzle and vastly advances our functional as well as evolutionary insight into the process of endocytosis.
PXD023986	33637724	VPS34 K29/K48 branched ubiquitination governed by UBE3C and TRABID regulates autophagy, proteostasis and liver metabolism. 	Ubiquitin chain types on ubiquitinated VPS34 in the presence or absence of UBE3C in vitro LC-MSMS	UBE3C, VPS34, ubiquitin chain types	The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy are two major quality control processes whose impairment is linked to a wide variety of diseases. The coordination between UPS and autophagy remains incompletely understood. Here, we show that ubiquitin ligase UBE3C and deubiquitinating enzyme TRABID reciprocally regulate K29/K48-branched ubiquitination of VPS34. We find that this ubiquitination enhances the binding of VPS34 to proteasomes for degradation, thereby suppressing autophagosome formation and maturation. Under ER and proteotoxic stresses, UBE3C recruitment to phagophores is compromised with a concomitant increase of its association with proteasomes. This switch attenuates the action of UBE3C on VPS34, thereby elevating autophagy activity to facilitate proteostasis, ER quality control and cell survival. Specifically in the liver, we show that TRABID-mediated VPS34 stabilization is critical for lipid metabolism and is downregulated during the pathogenesis of steatosis. This study identifies a ubiquitination type on VPS34 and elucidates its cellular fate and physiological functions in proteostasis and liver metabolism.
PXD010554	33637753	System-wide identification and prioritization of enzyme substrates by thermal analysis. 	System-wide identification of enzyme substrates by thermal analysis (SIESTA)	ARTD10, MARylation, PARP10, Poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase-10, TrxR1, post-translational modification, substrate, target, thermal stability, thioredoxin reductase 1	Despite the immense importance of enzyme-substrate reactions, there is a lack of general and unbiased tools for identifying and prioritizing substrate proteins that are modified by the enzyme on the structural level. Here we describe a high-throughput unbiased proteomics method called System-wide Identification and prioritization of Enzyme Substrates by Thermal Analysis (SIESTA). The approach assumes that the enzymatic post-translational modification of substrate proteins is likely to change their thermal stability. In our proof-of-concept studies, SIESTA successfully identifies several known and novel substrate candidates for selenoprotein thioredoxin reductase 1, protein kinase B (AKT1) and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase-10 systems. Wider application of SIESTA can enhance our understanding of the role of enzymes in homeostasis and disease, opening opportunities to investigate the effect of post-translational modifications on signal transduction and facilitate drug discovery.
PXD016198	33637760	A CSB-PAF1C axis restores processive transcription elongation after DNA damage repair. 	A CSB-PAF1 axis activates RNA polymerase II from promoter-proximal sites and restores efficient transcription elongation after DNA damage repair	CSB, TC-NER, Transcription recovery	Bulky DNA lesions in transcribed strands block RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) elongation and induce a genome-wide transcriptional arrest. The transcription-coupled repair (TCR) pathway efficiently removes transcription-blocking DNA lesions, but how transcription is restored in the genome following DNA repair remains unresolved. Here, we find that the TCR-specific CSB protein loads the PAF1 complex (PAF1C) onto RNAPII in promoter-proximal regions in response to DNA damage. Although dispensable for TCR-mediated repair, PAF1C is essential for transcription recovery after UV irradiation. We find that PAF1C promotes RNAPII pause release in promoter-proximal regions and subsequently acts as a processivity factor that stimulates transcription elongation throughout genes. Our findings expose the molecular basis for a non-canonical PAF1C-dependent pathway that restores transcription throughout the human genome after genotoxic stress.
